 The Earl of Euston  expressed his cordial agreement with the hon. Gentleman who last spoke, that the Reform Bill of 1832 could not possibly be considered as a final measure. He, in his humble situation, had opposed the Reform Bill; he could not, therefore, be supposed to be a very great Reformer. His objection to the Reform Bill was this: that the disfranchisement of the boroughs was either too small or too large, and he thought that the facts which had since occurred bore him out in this objection. What was it that brought about the Reform Bill itself? It was the opposition given to small beginnings, Was not the population of towns and boroughs continually fluctuating—some increasing, others diminishing? And was it wise, or consistent with the principles of the constitution, to refuse members to those towns whose populations increased. He intended to support the Amendment. He thought there was one great omission in the Speech form the Throne, inasmuch as no reference
 78
 Mr. Heathcole  said, that although the Mover and Seconder of the Address had deprecated an immediate discussion of the Corn-laws, yet they had entered fully into the matter, as had also the hon. Members for Kilkenny and Salford. The latter had referred to the old and often-refuted argument, that the abolition of the Corn-laws would not benefit the manufacturers alone, but the landowners equally. Those who were connected with that part of England with which he was more immediately concerned, were so far from thinking that they would be benefitted by the abolition, that he had received instructions to give to the proposition a positive and conclusive denial. He would not then enter fully into the question, but he knew the feeling of the county with which he had been connected for the last nineteen years, and he never knew any feeling so strong and so unanimous as it was upon this subject; a feeling pervading persons of all classes, contrasting greatly with what had taken place at meetings elsewhere, particularly in the manufacturing towns, where there was much violence and contrariety of opinion. The feeling did not less pervade persons of all political opinions than all classes of the community; not only was it entertained by the landowners, but he assured the House, that it was participated in by the tradesmen in the small towns, and by the labourers themselves. He believed, that he would have to present many petitions to that effect, numerously signed by the labourers, and he believed also, that from every parish in Lincolnshire would come a petition so signed. Hon. Members could not, therefore, say, that the landowners stood alone; for all classes were willing to
 90 Hear, hear. 91
 Mr. James  said, that he was the advocate for progressive reform, and he regretted as much as any man any declaration of the finality of the Reform Bill. Whenever any hon. Member should make a distinct motion for the extension of the suffrage, for shortening the duration of Parliaments, or for the ballot, he should have his vote; but he did not think it an appropriate manner of bringing it forward by inserting it in the Address, and he thought that the hon. Member for Finsbury would show more respect to her Majesty by abstaining from pressing his motion upon the present occasion. If the Amendment were carried, it would be a sort of censure upon the present Administration, and he, for one, would be sorry to see it passed. It might have the effect of turning Ministers out of office, and of bringing in the Gentlemen over the way. He would, therefore, vote for the Address.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury involved no amendment, and raised no question on the Address; it was simply an addition. So far they were all agreed. And it was an addition involving matter so true, that no vote of that House could lessen its truth. It stated, that the reform of the British House of Commons had not satisfied the people, and it ought not to have satisfied them. How, then, could it be called final? That the people were dissatisfied with it
 92 93 94
 Mr. Villiers  said, nothing could be conceived more likely to favour the views of the party calling themselves the "Chartists" than the speech of the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, and, indeed, the whole tenor of the debate from beginning to end. He had been in hopes that those Gentlemen, representing the landed interest, would have had at least the decency not to proclaim their intention of maintaining the monstrous monopoly of the Corn-laws. He had expected that the right hon. Baronet would have attempted, in the course of his speech, to suggest a remedy for some of the prominent grievances which oppressed the country; but, instead of that, he had commenced by reading the House a lecture, because they had undertaken the consideration of some matters of domestic policy; then another lecture about our affairs in India on Runjeet Sing and Kam Ram; and then another lecture because they had not given sufficient support to the mild and discreet individuals representing the British party in Upper Canada. Upon the subject of the Corn-laws, he thought that there could be but one feeling of disappointment throughout the country, that the right hon. Baronet had consented to take up the miserable and fallacious arguments of the hon. Member for Kendal. Yes; such he must style them; and he could not help thinking that it was unworthy of the right hon. Baronet to take such a course, betraying at once a want of ingenuity, or ability, or unwillingness to find something better to address to the House, Sure he was that
 112 113
 Lord John Russell  said, that important as were the various topics alluded to in the Speech of her Majesty, and important as were those topics which had not formed part of that Speech, but had been brought forward in the course of the present debate, he felt that he should have so many occasions for addressing himself to these several subjects when they were respectively brought forward, that he did not now think it necessary to do more than to give that explanation upon one or two points which might seem clearly called for by the speeches of the right hon. Baronet opposite, and others, who had spoken in the course of the debate. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin seemed to suppose that it was a great act of oppression and injustice on the part of the great powers of Europe that certain territories, which had been held for some years by the King of Belgium, were now about to be placed under the King of the Netherlands. But it should be borne in mind that these territories did originally form part of the dominions of the King of the Netherlands, and that when the kingdom of Belgium was formed, the King of Belgium consented to the present territorial arrangement. Neither did he think that any act of injustice was done by it to the inhabitants of this territory, who he did not think were in that state of hostility to the King of the Netherlands which the hon. Member for Kilkenny seemed to suppose. He must say, looking back at the labours and objects a the great Powers
 114 115 116 117 118 119 120 121 l. 122
 [Lord John Russell : I added a qualification.] The noble Lord, from that very expression clearly felt the justice of the remark which he had made. But suppose a mill was burned, and suppose that, in. stead of giving him assistance, it should be said that the mill-owner had duties to perform. He was prepared to say that, although the sentiments which the noble Lord expressed might be just, they might be truisms, but even the unseasonable expression of truth in times of public excitement might be dangerous, and, therefore he exceedingly regretted, that when the noble Lord did accompany that declaration which he had made in favour of these meetings with a qualification, that qualification did not receive equal publicity with the other parts of the speech. I will now (said the right hon. Baronet) say one word with respect to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury. The hon. Gentleman anticipates that it will be impossible for this side of the House to assent to it, and I certainly, for one, will give a cordial vote against it. But with respect to the first portion of the Amendment, that the measure of 1832 had disappointed the expectations of her Majesty's people, as the hon. Gentleman and others on that side of the House are such good judges of the disappointment that has taken place, I will defer to that authority most readily, and as I prophesied that disappointment would be the result, I certainly do not dissent from that part of the Amendment. I did dissent from the measure; I told you the English people in the mass were not deceived—that they did not place much confidence on the legislative power of a new Parliament to redress their grievances—I told you that you overrated the extent to which
 "Many a gem of purest ray serene The dark unfathomed caves." 110 111
 Mr. C. Buller  must beg leave, in the first place, in addressing the House, to thank the Gentlemen on each side of the House who had spoken, for the cautious abstinence they had shown that night, in respect to the affairs of Canada. He thanked them not only on the ground of the public, but on personal grounds.
 123 124 Laughter. 125
 Mr. P. Thomson  remarked, that the former duty was three per cent., the rise was two per cent., making the whole duty at present five per cent.
 Mr. E. Buller  rose and said, that after the most gracious Speech which they had heard, he had to bespeak the indulgence of the House, in venturing to move an humble, dutiful, and loyal address in answer to the Speech. He felt deeply impressed with the difficulty of his situation, as under any circumstances, he should have felt his utter inability to undertake this duty, but particularly on the present occasion. Considering the numerous and important subjects that were embraced in the Speech from the Throne, subjects which were in a very great degree foreign to his habits, upon which he had no great knowledge, and which he was not competent to discuss, in throwing himself upon the indulgence of the House, he would endeavour, to the utmost of his power, not to weary their patience. He would endeavour, moreover, as far as he possibly could, to avoid the inconveniences that arose from protracted discussions upon the Address; and, above all, he would endeavour to avoid saying anything that could occasion asperity, or give rise to an acrimonious debate. He would then proceed to make a few short observations upon the different topics referred to in the gracious Speech which they had heard that day delivered. It could not but be a matter of sincere congratulation to the House and the country that her Majesty still continued to receive assurances from foreign powers, of their anxiety to maintain our alliance, and the most friendly relations; and that the peace which had been purchased at the expense of so much treasure and blood continued to our advantage, and the advan-
 50 51 52 53 54 55
 Mr. G. W. Wood  rose with great pleasure to second the Address which had been moved by his hon. Friend near him, in reply to her Majesty's most gracious Speech from the Throne; and he felt quite as much, or more occasion for the indulgence of the House as his hon. Friend, being aware that on this occasion he should have to go over those topics to which his hon. Friend had previously called the attention of the House. It must be to all a matter of the utmost satisfaction, that her Majesty was able to assure the House, that she had perfect confidence in the preservation of peace on the footing on which the great powers stood in relation to each other. That after we had enjoyed the blessings of peace for so long a period, we should again have the assurance that there was no danger of the infraction of that peace, must be a subject of pleasure to this House, and all her Majesty's subjects; and in the two treaties that had been concluded with the Emperor of Austria and the Sultan of Turkey, to which their attention had been specially called by her Majesty, they had an additional basis for the preservation of peace. These treaties were of a character becoming the parties, and such as a commercial nation might justly be proud of having entered into. They contained provisions which were in the highest degree honourable to the Monarchs in whose names they had been concluded, and the statesmen through whose instrumentality they had been accomplished. They were treaties not entered into with a view to conquest, but with a view to call forth the latent wealth of the countries to which they related, and particularly the industry of their inhabitants. They were treaties which though they conferred advantages on the people to whom they had relation, did this without interfering in any degree with the
 56 57 58 59
 Mr. G. W. Wood  said, that some of the observations which had fallen from him having been so pointedly alluded to both by the right hon. Baronet opposite and the hon. Member who had just sat down, he felt bound to say, in explanation, that he saw nothing in the statements which he had made, inconsistent with any arguments for a change of the Corn-laws.
 Mr. Handley  observed, that the reason expressed by the noble Lord for supporting the Amendment was, that it pledged him to nothing. Now, that was the precise reason why he should oppose it; but in doing so, be protested against being held pledged as to any opinion he might entertain respecting the finality of the Reform Bill. When he recollected the first motion brought forward by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) on the first night of the last Session, and now considered that it was the other Member for the same borough who brought the Amendment forward, on the first night of this Session, he could not help thinking that it was a sort of anodyne, compounded, perhaps, by one of those hon. Members, to be administered by the other to allay some turbulent spirits that agitated the borough of Finsbury. He could only view it as a Finsbury farce, to be enacted by those hon. Members on the first day of every Session. He should, therefore, vote against it, because it pledged the House to nothing, and also because he considered it at once useless and unmeaning. His hon. Friends who moved and seconded the Address had alluded to there being no mention made in her Majesty's Speech respecting the Corn-laws, and each of them expressed his hope that the House would lend its support to some alteration or modification of the present law. He would not enter into the question now, but would merely state that he really should have been much surprised if any mention had been made of those laws, after the opinion expressed in the other House of Parliament by the noble Lord at the head of her Majesty's Government, towards the close of last Session, and after the opinion expressed in a letter attributed to the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in answer to his constituents the other day, namely, that it would be unwise to interfere with laws of this nature unless under circumstances of the most pressing emergency. The hon. Member who seconded the Address, gave them an elucidation of how much the prosperity of
 79
 Mr. Brotherton  would not have risen had it not been for some observations which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had seconded the Address, and which might lead to misapprehension. With regard to the Amendment then before the House, he might state, that there were five million men in this kingdom above twenty-one years of age, and that only one million of these had the elective franchise; that the people of this country conceived that the laws were partial, and that they were made for the benefit of the few, and not for the benefit of the many. The hon. Member for Lincolnshire had defended monopoly, and he conceived that monopoly always meant robbing somebody else. He had risen, however, to prevent the House from being led away by the flattering statements of the hon. Gentleman who seconded the Address. Coming from the same neighbourhood, he (Mr. Brotherton) knew something of the feelings of the people there, and he would put it to the common sense of the House to say whether they were prospering. Since the price of corn had doubled, would they tell him that wages had doubled? The manufacturers received small profits, and if they had received any, it was out of the wages of the labourers, who were forced to work long hours at trifling wages; and he would then ask, whether reform would not benefit the country? The exports might have increased in quantity. The exports of coal might have increased fifteen per cent.; but the exports of machinery had also increased; they were put down at 5,000 l. 89
 Mr. Hume  was glad that the hon. Gentleman had fairly and openly avowed, that the Corn-law system was a monopoly, because he wished to ask to whom was that system a monopoly? It was a monopoly in favour of the landlords against the whole nation. The hon. Gentleman, had therefore, in fact, contended that one small class of the people had a right to rob the rest of the community. If there was any meaning at all in the last sentence of the hon. Gentleman's speech, that must have been what he wished the House to understand. Now, it was because the Corn-laws were a monopoly that he, for one, would most strenuously oppose them. If there were any doubt as to the meaning of the statement made by the Seconder of the Address, he thought it admitted of this very easy explanation—that whilst the exports of this country were increasing in quantity, the profits on capital and the wages of the
 80 No, No! 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88
 Mr. T. Duncombe : If those two hon. Gentlemen who had just addressed the House, and who had performed their task with so much ability, felt it necessary to pray the indulgence of the House whilst they discharged what might be to them a sort of labour of love, how much more incumbent was it on him, an humble individual, to make an apology, when he presented himself to their notice for the purpose of communicating, not only to her Majesty's Ministers, but to the House, what must be unpalateable and unpleasant truths. But this was no time for empty apologies; and the best apology he could make, was not to occupy too much of their time. If it should, unfortunately, be his fate to cause pain to any party, he could only promise them, that their suffering under the operation should not he very long. He rose, then, for the purpose of moving an amendment to the address which had been moved and seconded by the two hon. Gentlemen who had preceded him. It was an addition, rather than amendment, and it was to this effect:— 65 66 67 68 69 70 l. l. 71 72
 Mr. Ward  rose to second the Amendment of his hon. Friend, and in doing so he felt called upon to express the obligation which he felt the hon. Member for Finsbury had conferred upon the House, by affording them an opportunity of expressing their opinions at so early a period of the Session on the important subject of Parliamentary reform. He felt, that there was an absolute necessity for such a motion at the commencement of the pressent Session of Parliament, and he thought the time which had been selected by his hon. Friend the most appropriate and the most constitutional. He had heard on the Treasury bench a cheer when his hon. Friend had stated, that the present was not the moment for entering upon details; but the object of his hon. Friend was not to pledge the House to any specific measure of reform, and his views would be fully answered by the acknowledgement by that House that reform was necessary, and that the House would adopt measures to secure a fairer representation of the wishes of the people. Now it was upon that point, of the time chosen for the present motion, that he anticipated the greatest objection. Many hon. Members said, that the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Finsbury was an excellent one, but, that it was wrong in point of time, and that it ought to have been brought forward as a substantive proposition in the regular course of business. He had heard a comparison drawn between the present motion and the motion which had last year been made by another hon. Friend of his (Mr. Wakley), but he would beg leave to remind
 73 74 75 76 No, no! 77
 Sir Robert Peel  feared, that in the present state of the internal government of Turkey, the superior authority would be so little attended to by the inferior persons over whom it had little control, that we should not reap all the advantages which we expected, and that we should find ourselves thwarted, not by the superior government, but by the inferior authorities. He would next advert to a subject of far deeper interest—to a question which had for too long a time escaped the attention of that House—to the subject of the British empire and the British interests in India. When they considered the immense importance of diverting the attention of the inhabitants of India from war, and of teaching them the acts of peace, and when they contemplated the evil consequences of a great financial expenditure, imposing the necessity for an additional taxation, he was bound to say that he could not consider this question without the greatest anxiety. He hoped that her Majesty's Ministers would give them the fullest information—that the House would be informed of the causes which had led to the interruption of our amicable relations with Persia. When they saw the large accumulation of force, amounting to several thousands, on our Indian frontier, and when they saw the encouragement which this accumulation of force, causing a necessary withdrawal from other parts, would give to
 96 "Differences which have arisen have occasioned the retirement of my Minister from the court of Teheran. I indulge, however, the hope of learning that a satisfactory adjustment of these differences will allow of the re-establishment of my relations with Persia upon their former footing of friendship. Events connected with the same differences have induced the Governor-general of India to take measures for protecting British interests in that quarter of the world, and to enter into engagements, the fulfilment of which may render military operations necessary. For this purpose such preparations have been made as may be sufficient to resist aggression from any quarter, and to maintain the integrity of my eastern dominions." 97 98 99 100 from Lord J. Russell 101 102 "He took possession, therefore, of Pensacola, and of the fort of Barrancas, as he had done of St. Mark's not in a spirit of hostility to Spain, but as a necessary measure of self-defence; giving notice that they should be restored whenever Spain should place commanders and a force there able and willing to fulfil the engagements of Spain towards the United States, of restraining by force the Florida Indians from hostility against their citizens.…. But the President will neither inflict punishment nor pass a censure upon General Jackson for that conduct, the motives for which were founded upon the purest patriotism; of the necessity for which he had the most immediate and effectual means of forming a judgment, and the vindication of which is written in every page of the law of nations as well as in the first law of nature, self-defence.…. If, as the commanders, both of Pensacola and St. Mark's, have alleged, this has been the result of their weakness rather than of their will—if they have assisted the Indians against the United States to avert their hostilities from the province which they had not sufficient force to defend against them, it may serve in some measure to exculpate individually those officers; but it must carry demonstration irresistibly to the Spanish government that the right of the United States can as little compound with impotence as with perfidy, and that Spain must immediately make her election either to place force in Florida adequate at once to the
 103 104 "I will give you the declared value; I will institute the best comparison; I will not take former years when other systems were in operation; but I will select the years 1835, 1836, and 1837; and I will compare the exports of 1838 with those of those four years under the same system of Corn-laws, and I will show you a progressive increase, not only in manufactured commodities, but in the real declared value, which amounted to three millions and a half; and I will show you, that there is a reasonable way of accounting for the depression which has taken place. In 1837, it is true, you had a depression; but that is not attributable to the Corn-laws. The years from 1834 to 1836 would afford fair tests
 105 Wood: Wood: 106 "I have observed with pain the persevering efforts which have been made in some parts of the country to excite my subjects to disobedience and resistance to the law, and to recommend dangerous and illegal practices." 107 "They were armed. He had seen the arms over their mantel-pieces. But the national petition had come opportunely, and they would not have signed it had it not demanded universal suffrage. If they should fail in the present instance, he would not attempt to say what would be the consequence. The rifles would be loaded—that would be the next step, no doubt; and he defied the power of any government, or of any armed Bourbon police, to put them down. It was no use to disguise the matter; secrecy was the ruin of all things. Everything would be done openly by the people of Lancashire, and it would be done constitutionally and legally. Now for the people's charter. They demanded it because it contained universal suffrage—because it gave them a voice in the choice of representatives—and they were justified in asking for this. Was it too much for those who produced all the food, all the clothing, all the necessaries of life—who fought all the battles of the country, to ask for a voice in the choice of their representatives? He would state what the people of Manchester were going to do. They intended, on Monday next, to hold a great meeting at Manchester—an aggregate meeting, where they expected no less than 300,000 men, two-thirds of whom were fit to bear arms." "He would now say a word as to the convention. One advantage of it would be, that the people would have an executive power to
 108 "They had had a taste of physical force in the north a short time since. Some of the metropolitan police were sent down to Dewsbury, but the boys of that noble town sent them home again. His desire was to try moral force as long as possible, even to the fullest extent; but he would have them always bear in mind that it was better to die freemen than to die slaves. Every conquest which was called honourable had been achieved by physical force; but they did not want it, because if all hands were pulling for universal suffer age, they would soon pull down the stronghold of corruption. The Whigs had not only deprived the poor of their rights, but they had robbed the middling classes of theirs also, and all for the purpose of putting the power into the hands of the three devils at Somerset-house." "If the borough reeve and constables had not made the declaration which they had made, and if these parties had not given the command of the police to be vested in the hands of the marshals of the day of that meeting, he would have come upon the ground armed, and would have brought 10,000 armed men with him to the meeting, and he would have moved an adjournment. He would have moved an adjournment of the meeting of the people of South Lancashire for one month, and he would have advised every one in the meantime to use all his influence over his friends and fellow workmen, to flock towards the standard of the national charter." "He alluded to the public meetings which were now in the course of being held in various parts of the country. There were some, perhaps, who would put down such meetings; but such was not his opinion, nor that of the Government with which he acted. He thought the people had a right to free discussion. It was free discussion which elicited truth. They had a right to meet. If they had no grievances,
 109
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that there were three classes of topics which were under discussion in the debate of that night. First, the topics which were introduced into the Speech and the Address; secondly, those which were omitted from the Speech and Address, but which had been referred to by the Mover and Seconder; and, thirdly, those which were introduced by the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Finsbury. Although it was not his intention to move any amendment to the Address, yet he would shortly advert to the several topics introduced into the Speech and Address, omitted there from, and proposed to be added by the hon. Member. Whatever omissions, however, there might be, Parliament never met under circumstances of such great importance, or which afforded so much cause for deep anxiety in several quarters of the globe. Whether they referred to the affairs of Canada, to the disputes between Holland and Belgium, to the state of France, or to our Indian possessions, they would find that there were topics in all of these suggesting grave consideration, and which they could not regard without deep anxiety. The first reference which had been made in the Speech from the Throne was to the treaties which had been concluded with Austria on the one hand, and Turkey on the other; and though he concurred in the general policy of those treaties, he could not concur in the extravagant panegyric which had been passed upon them by the hon. Gentleman who had seconded the Address. He concurred in the policy of the Austrian treaty, but it was nothing more than a continuance of the treaty of the year 1829, which had been concluded by his noble Friend, the Earl of Aberdeen. The opening of the Danube and other circumstances would of course suggest the extension of the principle of that treaty, but the reciprocal principle of the present treaty was the basis of the treaty of 1829. He concurred also in the policy
 95 ad valorem
 Mr. Wallace  said it was exceedingly inconvenient to Members not to be able to see the Sessional Orders before they were brought forward in this way. It appeared to him exceedingly reasonable that they should be printed with the votes the day before.
 Lord John Russell  did not see any reason for the proposed delay, but if it were the wish of the House, he would not oppose it.
 Mr. Hume  said, of course it was not the wish of the House, and least of all the Gentlemen opposite. They wished to keep every thing quiet, and to keep all the power in their own hands. He had as little occasion as any Member for seeing these Orders, having seen them and read them often; but every Member might not be in that situation. He submitted to the noble Lord whether the request of the hon. Member for Greenock was not worthy of attention?
 Mr. Wallace  said, that having mooted this question, he should be exceedingly sorry if his hon. Friend pressed it to a division. For his own part, he did not wish to interfere in any way; but if the motion were pressed, he should feel himself under the necessity of voting against it.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the House ought to agree at once to the motion of his hon. Friend. That was the only assembly in the world, that held its sittings when they ought to be in bed. They were beginning business when everybody else was leaving off. It was said, that some inconvenience would attend a different course of proceeding, but such inconveniences must yield to the superior convenience of doing business in the open day.
 131
 Mr. Hume  would not press his motion to a division.
 The Speaker  proceeded to read the Sessional Orders  seriatim.
 Mr. Hume  said, he wished to ask whether they were to continue to pass this same resolution year after year, when year after year it was utterly disregarded? He had sat long enough in that House to find Peers of the realm, thus prohibited by the rules of that House from interfering, and who were, nevertheless, implicated in such interference; and he had never heard that interference defended, He, there-
 132
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that this was the most arrant hypocrisy that any public assembly could be guilty of, when they perfectly well knew, that not a single election took place in which Peers who could profitably interfere, did not do so. He did not confine himself to one side of the House, for Whig Peers were as bad as Tory Peers. Why, then, in the name of common sense, come to a resolution that was totally inoperative?—and why was the House to stigmatise itself before the public by recording a falsehood, a lie, upon their journals? They knew that Peers had interfered, and that they would interfere, and if it were a doctrine of the constitution, that there was an alliance between representation and property, they would continue to interfere. No Gentleman could vote against his hon. Friend's motion except those who believed that Peers did not interfere at elections.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he had no doubt but that Peers did interfere in elections; but the question related to the degree and mode of interference. The real question was, whether this resolution which has been so repeatedly entered upon the journals, and sanctioned by the House, was indeed, totally inoperative. They knew that the interference of Peers at elections, was considerably different from that of commoners. If this resolution were not agreed to, there would be the practice of canvassing, of appearing on the hustings, and various other matters in which Peers might interfere. They might come to the elections, and speak from the hustings, things which they knew were not now done by Peers; but if this resolution were left out of the orders, it would be taken as a declaration that Peers as well as Commoners, might take those parts in election proceedings which only Common-
 133
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that yesterday evening he had taken occasion to make a few observations upon the situation of Belgium, and the manner in which the subject had been, introduced into the Speech. The noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department had condescended to say something in answer to those observations, but he must state that the noble Lord's reply, was to him far from satisfactory. He understood the noble Lord to say that Luxemburg and Limburg originally belonged to Holland; but he presumed he must have mistaken the noble Lord in so construing what he said, for he believed that there was no one fact in history better known than that since the time of Charles 5th those territories had belonged to Belgium. The first occasion on which they were separated from her was when they were turned into departments of the French republic, but now that the French dominion over them had been abolished, they ought to revert to Belgium. It was said by the noble Lord that the king of the Belgians had assented to the transfer of these provinces to Holland. Now, this statement, though founded upon the king of the Belgians having signed the treaty by which these provinces were ceded, was not correct in substance. The noble Lord must have alluded to the twenty-four articles agreed to on the 15th of October, 1831, and changed into a formal treaty on the 15th of November following. By that treaty the five Powers came to a definite agreement, which it was quite true the king of the Belgians had assented to. But the question was—was it binding with respect to the transfer of Luxemburg and Limburg? The treaty of the 15th of November was expressly made to be ratified within two months, or in case it should not, to be void. The King of Holland refused to sign it, and it never was executed in consequence of his re-
 136 137 138 Evening Mail Evening Mail 139
 Mr. O'Connell : I am quite willing to agree, Sir, to any decision which you may pronounce. I only regret that you had not the power of preventing the attack. I have known attacks made in that House on much higher persons than the humble individual who now addresses you, without any possibility of reply. As to the attack which has been made on myself, I shall not further refer to it. I despise its malignity. I have demonstrated its falsehood, and, having done both, I may ask myself what right I have to complain when even maiden modesty cannot protect her who holds the highest station in the empire from the obscene slanders of one who has dared to pollute her name by coupling it with an insinuation too base to mention. The sycophant of one monarch and the slanderer of another, is, I admit, so foul and polluted a source, that a charge coming from it is best treated when it is despised. He may call himself
 140
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped he might be permitted just to say that the hon. and learned Recorder had given a very satisfactory explanation of the mark of the boot. But this explanation he heard now for the first time. It had never been published in any
 146 Shaw
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  remarked, that the House and the public were already aware, that the circumstances under which Lord Durham entered upon his mission, were the ordinary circumstances under which any other nobleman or gentleman would enter upon a similar undertaking. Lord Durham received no salary whatever during his stay
 152
 Colonel Perceval  complained, that the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, had not screened the rev. Mr. Beresford from the doubt which had been raised as to whether he had actually been fired at or not. The noble Lord was perfectly aware of the fact, that Mr. Beresford had been shot at, and that large rewards had been offered by the law-officers of the Crown for the apprehension of the offenders. He (Colonel Perceval) must also express his surprise, that Ministers, in framing the Queen's Speech, should wholly have neglected to advert to the state in which her Majesty's loyal subjects in Ireland were placed by continual incitements to insurrection and murder, coming from those to whom, he was sorry to say, Government mainly looked for support.
 Captain Boldero  said, that in her Majesty's Address to the House of Commons, there was the following paragraph:—I fully rely on your loyalty and patriotism to maintain the efficiency of these establisments which are essential to the strength and security of the country." He pre-
 154
 Mr. Langdale  remarked, that in the estimation of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and of some others whose opinions coincided with his, the distribution of the scriptures in Ireland was to be a panacea for all the evils which afflicted that country. That was a doctrine which he (Mr. Langdale) would never hear advanced without rising to enter his protest against it. In no county hi the kingdom had the scriptures, it was to be presumed, been so widely diffused, as in the county (Kent) which the hon. Gentleman represented, and yet there was no county in the kingdom so deeply disgraced, as recent unhappy events proved, by ignorance of scriptural truths.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that the papers to be laid before Parliament having reference to Canada were of two kinds. The one class of papers embraced the despatches relative to Canadian affairs, which had
 150
 Lord Russell  had no hesitation in saying, that it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to submit to Parliament in the course of the present Session a measure for the settlement of the affairs of Canada.
 Lord John Russell  would certainly not object to give the right hon. Member the fullest information on the subject to which be referred.
 Lord John Russell  replied that when the papers to which he had already alluded should be laid before the House, they would afford hon. Members that information which was necessary, in order to enable them to consider the subject. If the hon. Member alluded to the executions which had taken place in Lower Canada. [Mr.  Hume
 Lord John Russell , adverting to the complaint made by the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw), that no allusion was made in her Majesty's Speech to the social condition of Ireland, observed that it was not usual in Speeches from the Throne to enter into any remarks upon the condition of the country unless it were the intention of Government to call for some specific measure in reference to that condition. If the right hon. and learned Gentleman meant to ask whether it were intended to introduce any measure, the specific object of which should be to amend the social condition of the people of Ireland, he must say that he had no measure of that kind to propose. He had always considered that the general principles which had been thought useful and conducive to the prosperity of other countries, would be conducive to the prosperity of Ireland. He believed that the
 153
 Lord J. Russell  had never said that it would be withheld.
 Colonel Sibthorp  took the opportunity of giving notice, that on Tuesday, the 19th instant, he would move for a return of all the expenses attending the unfortunate commission of which Lord Durham was the head. Last year, a return was made in which it was stated that the expense of fitting out the Hastings, the ship in which Lord Durham was to sail, would not exceed 525 l
 Mr. Shaw  thought it of very great importance that the House should be set right with respect to the particulars of the print of the shoe of the assassin on the spot where Lord Norbury was murdered. The facts, he believed, were ascertained to be these: Immediately after the murder, no trace of any boot was discovered, but some time subsequent to it a young boy, who was now at Eaton, a son of Lord Nor. bury, had held a paper whilst a drawing was made of the spot, and of course left the mark of his boot there. But something more remained to be explained; for he must say that it struck him, as it did many others, that the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, though he abstained from mentioning names, still insinuated, and endeavoured to have it spread through the country, that the murder was committed by some member of the family. Now the fact was that, the print of the boot was that of a younger brother. He must state however, that the insinuation which had been sent industriously through the country impressed his mind with the conviction that though the murder was atrocious, wanton, and unprovoked by any motive, which usually influenced the commission of crime, it was exceeded by casting on a family, plunged in the depth of affliction by the bloody outrage, the cruel, inhuman, and unmanly insinuation that the father of the family fell by the hands of one of his children. He owned that this conduct struck him as practised for the purpose of drawing away public attention from the real cause of demoralization, and from the real criminal by whose act the country had been
 145 Cheers from Lord John Russell.
 The Speaker , interrupting the hon. and learned Gentleman, said: I must throw myself on the indulgence of the House whilst I put it to the hon. and learned Member whether it is right that he should take the course which he is now pursuing. The hon. and learned Gentleman has the fullest right to go into every statement which can bear upon any part of the Address; but I am sure I need not state the great inconvenience which must arise from having a war carried on between the two Houses—in disguise, it was true, but still very intelligibly. I think it is very reasonable and desirable that the hon. and learned Gentleman should give a correct statement of the facts to which he has referred; but I am sure the hon. and learned Gentleman, and the whole House, will feel that we at least should set a good example in our proceedings.
 The Speaker  said, there was every reason to believe, that the matter would be discussed to morrow; but there was no necessity whatever of giving any notice, as any Member holding a petition was at liberty, by discussing its contents, to raise the question, and the House might take that opportunity of entertaining it.
 Mr. Leader  hoped, it was not the intention of the Government to refuse the production of the report made by the Earl of Durham.
 Mr. Plumptre  expressed his deep regret that her Majesty's Ministers had taken no further notice of the state of Ireland than to intimate the necessity of corporate reform. Concession was much talked of, but for his part he was satisfied that concession had been but the fruitful parent of further demands, and not of satisfaction or of peace, and he much feared that they would yet reap a bitter harvest from the concessions which had been made. That was the view at least, which he entertained of the recent policy adopted with regard to Ireland. For his part he would say, free her from the dominion of priestcraft, and from the selfish demagogues who for their own ends, disturbed by perpetual agitation the tranquillity of the country, and allow the people to have the free and unfettered use of the scriptures. To deprive them of free access to the scriptures was, in his opinion, the cruelest of despotisms, and he was persuaded, that if the people of Ireland were allowed the free use of the scriptures, peace would soon be restored, and the people would soon learn that their pretended friends kept a knowledge of the scriptures from them in order to maintain them in ignorance, that they might thereby accomplish their own selfish purposes. To extend a free knowledge of the scriptures to the people of Ireland was the best measure that could be adopted to restore tranquillity to that country, and to promote the best interests of the people; and the extension of that knowledge to the Irish people was the best hope he had for that country; nor did he despair that in time the Irish people would discover who their real friends were; and he was confident, that in the progress of improvement they would rise up in a body and demand
 147 148
 Mr. Hume , amidst general cries of "Spoke," expressed a wish to ask one question with respect to Belgium. He wished to know whether he understood the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) correctly, that Belgium had invoked the five great Powers to carry into effect the treaty of November, 1831? Again, the noble Lord had remarked, that the affairs of Holland and Belgium were to be settled by the laws of Europe, as those laws were defined and laid down in the treaty of Vienna. If that were so, he wished to know whether the laws of Europe were to be applied to Poland, and whether the constitution of that country was to be restored?
 Mr. Hume  said, that as the question was to be discussed in that House how far the resolution of last Session was to be fol-
 130
 Mr. Hume  could not refrain from calling the attention of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, to the melancholly business that was now going on in Canada, and which was not calculated to do any good to this country, in the public mind either of America or Canada. He saw by the  Gazette
 Mr. Wallace  said, that in rising to present the first public petition to the present Parliament, he claimed a perfect right, when he thought fit, to represent the opinions of his constituents, in the shape of a speech, if he could make one. He would not, however, attempt to do so then, as he knew, that the question would be mooted to-morrow, or soon after; and he would, therefore, refrain from availing himself of his right, and, abiding by the rule of last Session, he would content himself with stating the contents of the petition. The petition which he was exceedingly proud to be intrusted with, prayed for a total repeal of the Corn-laws, and came from the Chamber of Commerce of Greenock.
 Sir J. Hobhouse  said, it was the intention of the Government to lay those engagements themselves upon the table of the House, and he should be ready to give any explanation of their object, or to produce any other papers which might be considered essential for enabling the House to arrive at a correct judgment as to the actual position of our Indian possessions.
 Sir R. Peel  said, his other question related to Canada, and the subject to which it had reference was also alluded to in the Speech from the Throne. In that Speech her Majesty had invited them to take into their serious consideration the present state of the Canadian provinces, and he begged, therefore, to ask the noble Lord, what course her Majesty's Ministers intended to pursue on this important question? He understood, that certain papers and documents were to be laid upon the table of the House, having reference to the state of Canada, and when those papers were before the House, he wished to know whether the paragraph in her Majesty's Speech meant to convey an intimation that the Government would on their own responsibility, as the confidential advisers of the Crown, submit to Parliament any measure or measures relating to the constitution of Lower Canada, and to our other North American possessions?
 Sir R. Peel  had two questions to ask the Government. The first had reference to the proceedings of the Governor-General of India, to which allusion had been made in the Speech from the Throne. In that Speech there was a reference to certain "engagements" into which, it was stated, the Governor-General had entered for the protection of British interests in that quarter of the world, and it was added, that the fulfilment of those engagements "might render military operations necessary." He wished, therefore, to know, whether any papers were to be laid upon the table of the House containing an explanation of those engagements, whether their nature and objects would be fully developed, and whether they would enable the House to form a correct judgement of the actual condition of the whole north-west coast of India?
 Sir R. Peel  had no wish to press the noble Lord too closely, or to precipitate the introduction of those measures which her Majesty's Ministers might have in contemplation. But as they were called upon by the Address to assure her Majesty that they would take the present state of the Canadian provinces into their most serious consideration, without delay, and as her Majesty in the Speech from the Throne had said, in reference to Canada, "I rely upon you to support my firm determination to maintain the authority of my Crown, and I trust that
 151
 Mr. Williams Wynn  wished to call the attention of the noble Lord to a question connected with the case of a Gentleman, who, being a Member of this House, had accepted of an office connected with a salary, under an Act of the last Session of Parliament, but had since resigned it, under the opinion that this appointment was of such a nature as to come within the intent and meaning of the statute of Anne. He was desirous of knowing from the noble Lord whether the facts of the case were as he described them; because, if so, he believed that the hon. Member's acceptance of the office in question vacated his seat, and that in consequence the House ought to proceed to issue a new writ forthwith for the place he represented; and he wished to know why the ordinary practice in such cases had in the present instance been departed from. He hoped the noble Lord would have no objection to state to the House all that had passed in this matter, and to lay before the House all the papers connected with the subject in
 135
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that as the gallant Member opposite (Colonel Perceval) had complained that he had not given any contradiction to the statement of the hon. and gallant Member for Dublin respecting the Rev. Mr. Beresford, he owed it to the rev. gentleman to state that he knew of no circumstance, and was in possession of no evidence, that should raise any doubt as to the reality of the facts stated be the rev. gentleman in any point.
 Viscount Palmerston , replied, that when he said, that the Belgian government had invoked the five great Powers to carry out the provisions of the treaty, he referred to a period antecedent to the capture of Antwerp. When the hon. Gentleman asked when the conference separated and when it was reunited, he (Lord Palmerston) could only remark, that it was never dissolved. It ceased to sit after the expedition to Antwerp, which took place in November, 1832; but it resumed its sitting in the following June or July after Antwerp had been taken, and after the Dutch government had pledged itself to negociate a renewal of the treaty of peace. If the Dutch government should now accept the terms proposed, and Belgium should refuse to do so, then the five Powers would give to Holland the support to which she would have acquired a right.
 Viscount Palmerston  rose for the purpose of noticing that part of the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech in which he referred to the Belgian question. The hon. and learned Gentleman had mistaken the grounds on which his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) had rested his statements. His noble Friend did not allude to ancient history in describing the situation of Luxemburg and Limburg, but to arrangements which were comparatively recent. By the treaty of Vienna Belgium was added to the seven united provinces. Luxemburg was constituted a separate sovereignty, as a grand duchy to be held by the same individual who was King of the Netherlands, but by a separate title, and transmissible by a separate line of succession. The kingdom of the Netherlands went to all the heirs of the king. Luxemburg descended only to his heirs male, and in case of their failure to the house of Nassau: The King of the Netherlands, as King of the Netherlands, was not a member of the German confederation, but as King of Luxemburg he was a member, and when the Grand Duchy was formed it became subject to the federal constitution, which created regulations for the members of that confederacy. When the revolution broke out it extended to Luxemburg as well as to Belgium. The King of the Netherlands, finding his own means insufficient, applied to the five Powers to restore order, and these Powers not choosing to employ force, established, at his request, an armistice between the parties, and proceeded by negociation to make arrangements. It was ultimately found that the only practicable arrangement which could be arrived at was a separation between the provinces of Belgium and Holland. But these Powers did not think themselves competent—nor were they so according to the treaties which governed the relations of European states—to deal with the question as to the province of Luxemburg. And the hon. and learned Gentleman would find, if he looked to one of the earliest of the protocals which had been referred to, that the five Powers declared they had no competency to deal with this part of the question, but that the German Confederation had full liberty, if they thought fit, to
 141 142 143 l 144
 Mr. Villiers  hoped the House would allow him first to say, in answer to the hon. Member's question, that it was not his intention to raise the general question upon the motion of which he had given notice. He would merely move that the House do hear evidence in support of particular petitions, and it was his intention subsequently to move the House upon the general question.
 Mr. Villiers : Most Certainly.
 Mr. Villiers  was very sorry to hear the acrimonious manner in which that question was discussed. It was a question of mere dry detail, and he never saw the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, use more vehement gesticulation. He confessed, the present arrangement was very convenient for the Members themselves, but was also very unsatisfactory to the public at large. It is no doubt very hard and very unfortunate that a Member should come down night after night, and yet have no opportunity of presenting his petition. The system which his hon. Friend (the Member for Sheffield) proposed would add greatly to the labours of individual Members, but the present
 173
 Mr. Parker , until he heard the subject discussed, thought that petitions were too much neglected under the present system; and, even now he was of opinion that some new plan might be adopted which would give greater satisfaction to the public. He was not, however, prepared to say, that under the present circumstances, the rule of the House should be departed from.
 Admiral Codrington  said, that this was in truth a motion for rejecting petitions. Such a motion as that could not fail to bring on a debate, and he for one could not understand how the noble Lord would be able to carry his motion into execution after he had succeeded upon it.
 Mr. Jervis  hoped the noble Lord would not press the motion to a vote on this occasion. Rather than that should be the case, he hoped the hon. Member for Sheffield would withdraw his petition for the present, so that this subject might hereafter be properly discussed. He for once wished, that Mr. Speaker should not be left in the invidious situation of having frequently to interrupt speakers. There was nothing tangible in the present rule, and if this motion were carried, Mr.
 179
 Lord Stanley  was perfectly satisfied of the absolute expediency and necessity of adhering to the rule and practice of the House, which were found, in his judgment to be exceedingly convenient, and by no means injurious to a due consideration of the petitions of the people. He was, therefore, perfectly prepared to support the motion of his noble Friend, and his only hesitation arose from this—that though all could trust to the discretion of the Speaker for the performance of his duty, he should not be placed in such a position as to leave his conduct liable to the slightest misconstruction. It was, therefore, most desirable, though every Member understood what latitude was allowed in speaking on petitions, that a rule should be laid down in a formal manner on the journals, in order to prevent the possibility of mistake. If the Speaker found any difficulty in laying down such a rule, he hoped that his noble Friend would allow him twenty-four hours' consideration as to the form in which it should be entered on the journals. But, on the other hand, as he did not doubt, from his perfect knowledge of the laws on which they had hitherto acted, that the Speaker was now prepared to state what his understanding of them was, he trusted he might take the liberty of requesting that he should state the terms in which he wished his construction of them should be conveyed. His noble Friend might then preface his motion by stating—"Mr. Speaker having laid down the rule so and so, this House is determined to abide by his rule." This course would remove all doubt, and place the matter in a clear and distinct light.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the hon. Member for Sheffield had left him no alternative.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that when the House had an opportunity of having the rule laid down by the Speaker reduced to writing, he should change his motion so as to mee the view of the noble Lord, he herefore begged to postpone it until tomor ow. Debate adjourned.
 [The entry on the rules of the House differing in some measure from our report of the Speaker's speech, we think it right to subjoin it. Presentation a Public Petitions:—Mr. Ward, the Member for Sheffield, having in the course of opening to the House a Petition from his constituents respecting the Corn-Laws, stated that it was his intention not to confine himself solely to the allegations and prayer of
 182
 Lord John Russell  must say, that he thought it was the duty of the hon. Gentleman either to submit to the rules of the House as laid down by the Chair, or to bring forward some motion of his own on the subject. It was perfectly competent for the hon. Member, or for those who thought with him, that under the present mode of proceeding sufficient attention was not paid to the petitions of the people, to say that the rules and practice ought to be altered. But he did not understand, when the Speaker had laid down what the rule and practice were, that the hon. Gentleman should not agree to abide by the rule and practice, or make an attempt to alter them by a vote of the House; for he now seemed to be acting the part which was imputed to the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, and setting his own authority and decision against a decision which was apparently in conformity with the opinion of the House. He must say, therefore, that he did not think the hon. Gentleman had pursued a course consistent with the respect which he ought to pay to the House on this subject. But as the question had been now discussed, and as he thought the House had heard full and sufficient reasons to induce them to persevere in the present practice, he did not wish to add to the arguments which had been adduced, but shortly to state what was the vote to which
 176
 Lord John Russell , after the explanation of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, would say, that it certainly was not his intention to move any Amendment, proposing a fixed duty, to that hon. Member's motion. He was not likely to commit himself so far as that with regard to a motion which he had not heard
 156
 Lord John Russell  said, that in the present stage of the question all he would say was, that he entirely concurred with the Speaker that the rules of the House were matters of practice, and as long as a practice was confirmed by the majority of the House, and appeared to meet the general sense, it was their duty to enforce that practice. That being the case, he could not conceive how the hon. Member for Sheffield could propose to alter and overturn that practice without making a distinct motion on the subject. He therefore expected to have found at the end of the hon. Gentleman's speech, a motion to alter that practice by which alone the Chair was guided. Unless there were some rules of this kind, he could not conceive how the Speaker could pursue any other course than to enforce the established practice agreeable to the wishes of a majority of that House. The hon. Gentleman proposed to restore what he called the ancient practice of the House. Now he recognised no such ancient practice. He believed that the ancient practice of the House was, that those hon. Members who presented petitions stated the substance of the petition, the number of the petitioners, and the class of persons from whence they came. They contented
 162
 Mr. Hawes  was not competent to give an opinion upon the ancient practice of the House, but he recollected a very remarkable occasion, on which a petition of considerable importance, and having reference to a question of great importance at that time under discussion, was presented by the present most distinguished Chairman himself from Edinburgh in favour of Municipal reform, and he well remembered that when it was presented it was accompanied with a very striking speech. He well recollected that the right hon. Gentleman took that opportunity to argue in support of the petition. But when the noble
 163
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  disagreed with the statements of the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, that the new rule respecting the presentation of petitions had given great dissatisfaction to the country. If there were any dissatisfaction on the subject, he thought it must arise from a misinterpretation of the practice of the House, under which the hon. Member seemed to labour. The hon. Member said, that petitions ought to be read; but surely that was not what the hon. Member aimed at by mooting the subject; but rather that Members should have an opportunity of making speeches on presenting petitions. Then, it was complained that petitions were brought up without any note or ceremony; and thrust into a bag, and carried away, nobody being a bit the wiser; but the hon. Member, in making this allegation, showed himself to be misinformed of the practice of the House, and strangely neglectful of his duties as a Member of Parliament, more particularly to all those constituencies who had intrusted him with petitions to present. The hon. Member ought to be aware, that all public petitions presented to this House were referred to a Committee, who examined and classified them, and printed such of them as they deemed advisable; and, moreover, that any Member presenting a petition had a right to move, that it be printed, and to give notice, that he should bring the subject of it before the House. This was a privilege which he had claimed, and other hon. Members near him, and he thought it was a course far more satisfactory to the parties themselves when they came to consider of it, than the old plan. With respect to the subject of the Corn-laws, no one, he should think, could doubt, after all he had said about it, that it was a question upon which he was most anxious that the fullest inquiry should be had, and the fullest justice done to all who came forward with representations in reference to it. But only let the hon. Member compare the present practice of the House with that of a few years back. He well recollected in the year 1832, hearing an hon. Baronet complaining in that House, that he had come down early day after day for twenty-four days in succession, with a petition to present, in hopes of getting his name on the Speaker's list; but that there always happened to be two or three down before him, and that tie discussions which took place on these
 172
 Mr. Horsman  did not regard this as a discussion against hearing the matters of petitions discussed generally, but a discussion against hearing the Corn-law petitions discussed. As long as the discussion was on the question generally, he took no part; but now that he must vote, he desired to express his wish to the noble Lord along with his other friends, that he would not press this motion, which was liable to great misconstruction—a misconstruction of which the noble Lord would hereafter have great reason to complain. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had expressed himself extremely unwilling to bring forward a motion of this kind; and after all that had been said, he hoped the noble Lord would not persevere in a course that must lead to great inconvenience.
 The Speaker : I can have no hesitation in stating the substance of what I collect to have been the practice of the House during the several Sessions that I have filled this chair. As to the particular words in which it ought to be described, I cannot be so secure. The first rule is, that in the event of any petition being offered to the House, complaining of individual grievance, and requiring immediate redress it should be immediately entertained and discussed. That in the event of any Member offering a petition relating to any matter which he wishes to bring under the consideration of the House, the course followed is, that he gives notice of his inten-
 181
 The Speaker , interrupting the hon. Member, said, that under the peculiar circumstances the House would probably think, that that was the proper time for him to make some few observations, in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. Member. It would be in the recollection of the House, that upon various occasions he had expressed his desire that some positive opinion should be expressed by the House on this subject. He admitted, that it was of the very greatest importance, and affected the rights of the people, as well as the order and practical proceedings of that House. The hon. Member had stated, that there was no rule of the House by which any limitation was put upon the extent of statements in presenting petitions. It was perfectly true, that there might be no rule recorded on the journals of the house; but he need not state to the hon. Member for Sheffield, or to any other Member of that House acquainted with the forms of Parliament, that the order in question was like a great number of those orders which were acknowledged to be of great utility and were established by the practice of the House. The rules and regulations of the House arose from the course of practice. It was the duty of the Speaker to enforce these rules, so far as he understood them; and he knew of no test by which, in cases of doubt, they
 158 159
 The Speaker  said, that he had to acquaint the House that he had waited upon her Majesty with the Address of the House, to which her Majesty had been pleased to give the following most gracious answer:—"I thank you for your loyal and dutiful Address. I receive with satisfaction the assurance of your dutiful support in maintaining the authority of the Crown in my Canadian provinces. I rely with confidence on your zealous assistance in upholding the observance of the law, and on your careful consideration of the weighty matters in which you will be engaged."
 General Johnstone  begged to draw the attention of the House to the fact that this was a motion without any notice of it. If the petitions of the people were only to be laid on the Table of that House, and not looked at, nor their contents discussed, God only knew what was to become of the country. He trusted, that this motion would not go to the vote on the present occasion.
 Mr. Leader  wished to know what the established practice was, because there appeared to him to be some dispute with respect to the matter. For his own part, he asserted that every Member had a right upon the presentation of petitions, to state what his opinions were on the subject. When a petition was presented, the ques-
 177 178
 Mr. Brotherton  said, there was no man more anxious to save the time of the House, but he could not concur in what had been urged by his hon. Friends around him, for though he believed that there was some dissatisfaction on the subject of petitions, he was persuaded that arose from the public mind having been misinformed as to the facts. It had been represented, that petitions were merely thrown into a bag—such was not the truth. Every hon. Member had a right to state where the petition came from, who were the petitioners, and what was the allegation. The hon. Member for Greenock had last night, in presenting a petition, occupied a considerable time in stating its allegations—besides which, any Member might name a subsequent day for the discussion of the subject of a petition which he was anxious to have more fully considered, without infringing the rule of the House. It has been stated, he knew, in many parts of the country, no matter how contrary to truth, that the petitions of the people have been treated with contempt. This statement he never allowed to he made, without contradicting, in a manner that his knowledge of the proceedings of this House enabled him to do; and from that knowledge he knew that the petitions of the people fared much better than when the former practice was followed. He must say, that some ten or a dozen of Members monopolized to themselves the right of taking up the time of the House with petitions. Indeed, such Members as himself never could get time to speak on the presentation of petitions. Under all the circumstances of the case, he
 175
 Mr. Hume  entreated the noble Lord to look at the consequences of the House coming to the resolution he now proposed for adoption. If he would only look at the misconstruction that such a motion would be subject to, he felt, that the noble Lord would be the last man to subject himself to the effect of such misconstruction. This motion would certainly interfere with the right of the people to petition as well as with the liberty of speech; and it would be far better for the noble Lord not to press his motion at present, but to give notice of it for a future day.
 Mr. Hume  would take the hon. Gentleman upon his own showing, and demonstrate by the rule of three that he was wrong. He would put this case, and he would remind the hon. Baronet that he had the pleasure of sitting with him for a number of years on the Committee of Petitions, whether they had not found on several occasions two hundred or three hundred petitions identically the same except the signatures; which, he fancied, broke down the whole of the hon. Baronet's objections, because, by the rule of three, he would put down these three hundred petitions as one. The hon. Gentleman referred to numbers. He would find that they had agreed to print one only out of a series, whatever that series might be, and of counting that one only worthy of notice. If it had been the practice up stairs it had been so down in that House. When one petition had been presented on any subject, and other Gentlemen knew that, knowing they had petitions of the same nature, they had brought them up without even asking for discussion, which had been the means of saving a great deal of time. But he heard with the utmost surprise, if any thing could surprise him in that House now-a-days, the hon. Baronet, late Member for Westminster, stand up and state that this was a novel question in that House, whether the petitions of the public should be heard. What did his hon. Friend, the Member for Sheffield ask, but that the petitions of the people should be heard and discussed in the House? The hon. Baronet said this was a novelty, and why did he object to it? Because, forsooth, Members presenting petitions would make  ex parte ex parte 166
 Mr. Milnes  could not accede to the observations he had heard from the other side of the House. The present question had nothing whatever to do with the presenting of petitions. It was simply whether those who presented petitions should be restrained from addressing the House. The privilege of presenting petitions belonged to the people, but when their petitions came into the House, then those privileges ceased, and the petitioners became subject to the rules of the House. He thought that the reproach from the hon. Member who had just sat down, might have been spared—that Members were afraid of the Corn-law petitions. He would rather ask whether it were not in consequence of the Corn-law petitions that this question had now been debated as it had been. As to the threat of the hon. Member for Westminster, that there was a rival parliament sitting in London, he for one, thought those societies ought to acquire a little more power before they were brought for-
 180
 Mr. Christopher  said, that seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary of the Home Department in his place, he would venture to put to him a question upon the subject of the Corn-laws. The hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers) having given a notice of motion on this subject for the 19th instant, and the noble Lord having publicly declared in favour of a fixed duty in preference to the present graduated scale, he wished to know whether, when the motion was made by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton on the 19th, it was the intention of the noble Lord to meet that motion by an amendment, recommending a moderate fixed duty, or whether it was his intention to meet it with a direct negative?
 Sir De Lacy Evans  said, having a pe-
 174
 Sir F. Burdett  said, it was a subject of general notice, how much petitions had augmented of late years; while those who presented them, were prepared with a speech which they were anxious to let off. Besides, the House ought to consider that speeches on petitions were necessarily  ex-parte, 164 ex-parte
 Mr. Ward  rose to present a petition, which had been agreed to at a public meeting of the inhabitants of the town which he repre-
 157
 Mr. Ward  thought, the right hon. Baronet had met, in a very unfair and uncourteous way, the observations of a man who but very seldom trespassed upon the time of the House, in the discharge of what he conceived to be a most important public duty; and he could only say, that he was not to be deterred by any such observations from doing what he conceived to be his duty. The right hon. Baronet seemed to impute to him (Mr. Ward) a wish to make distinctions between petitions; now he never said anything of the kind, though, he believed, his hon. Friend behind him had said something like it, but which he was sure must have been understood by all who heard him to have been intended ironically. If the right hon. Baronet perceived any intention on his part to break through an old established rule—but a rule which he maintained did not exist, he begged to say, that all he wished was, to see a clear and intelligible rule laid down, by which all might be guided, and which the country might understand; and until that was done, let them revert to what he considered the practice of the House for the last twenty years.
 Mr. Ward  had listened with that respect which he had always felt for the individual who presided in the chair, to the observations which he had addressed to the House. He concurred entirely in the justice of those observations; but he doubted whether the Speaker could undertake, unless fortified by some previous decision of the House, and by a clear rule with regard to the presentation of petitions, to check and control individual Members in the discharge of what they regarded as their duty. But he, and those who thought with him on this most important subject, felt that, in a matter so deeply affecting the rights of the people, as all matters connected with the right of petitioning were, there should be no appeal to any thing but a clear and definite expression of the sense of the majority. They had no such thing here, there was nothing but an understanding originating how they did not know, of which there was no record on the Votes or the Journals—a shadow by which he did not conceive himself bound, when he claimed and asserted the high privilege of being heard in support of the petition which he presented. He would, however, lay aside the present petition, and address himself to the general question. Under the present regulations they confined themselves to the appointment of a committee who analysed all petitions, gave an abstract of their contents, and reported the number of signatures, thus preventing the petition from being heard and discussed in that House, dismissing it without remark or remonstrance, although it might contain the sentiments of many thousands of intelligent men. This was the practice that had grown up recently: and although he admitted the force and truth of what had been said, that something was due to
 160 stare super antiquas vias 161
 Mr. Ward  supposed he must present the petition, for the discussion had left the question where it was at the beginning. The same course which he pursued, reluctantly, but under a sense of duty, would be adopted by some other Member to morrow night; for no other alternative was left to those who thought with him, since the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) abstained from making any motion on the subject.
 Mr. Ward  had no wish to drive the noble Lord into a hasty decision, and, therefore, he should have great pleasure in withdrawing his petition, and presenting it on any future day, that might be more convenient to the noble Lord.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  would not occupy the time of the House many minutes. The hon. Member for Sheffield stated, that petitions were read so formally, or inaudibly, that no knowledge could be conveyed to the House on the subject. He would ask whether the time that would be occupied in reading these petitions had been taken into consideration. The year 1833 had been referred to, as that in which the experiment had been made on the subject of petitions. In that year 10,394 petitions had been presented to the House, and he called upon the House to recollect, if the hon. Member for Sheffield was right, and that Members might not only read but provoke discussion, how much time would be occupied by presenting petitions—the same right being conceded to every other gentleman. He pledged himself that no one of these petitions could be read in less than a minute and a half, and some of them would take three or four minutes; and he would ask the hon. Member for Kilkenny to calculate what time it would take to read 10,394 petitions at that rate. If the House sat 100 days, at six hours a day, morning and night, they could not dispose of all these petitions. In fact, the whole twenty-four hours would not be sufficient to dispose of the whole. The hon. Member for Lambeth talked of the extreme importance of the petition from Sheffield. He was not one to undervalue the importance of the petitions, whether for or against the Corn-laws, or on any subject whatsoever. If this proposed rule were adopted (every hon. Member claiming the same right), how was it possible for the House to discharge any other duty than
 165
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he did not mean to follow the example of the noble Lord, and to discuss this important question, whether or not, upon such a subject as the Corn-laws, that agitated the public mind so much, Government ought or ought not to have a collected opinion. That was not the question put to the noble Lord, but the noble Lord, in professing to answer a question, had gone into a history of the opinions of the Cabinet with respect to the Corn-laws. That was a very inconvenient course. He wished to ask the hon. Member for Wolverhampton whether the House were to take for granted that he would bring forward the motion of which he had given notice.?
 Sir Robert Peel  did not consider that there existed any question in the minds of the Members of the House generally as to the propriety of the rule which the Speaker had enforced in reference to the presentation of petitions; and every one, he was sure, must feel convinced that, in any rules which Mr. Speaker adopted, he acted according to what he conscientiously thought most conducive to the convenience of the House. They had various important duties to perform—the duty of hearing petitions—the duty of legislation—the duty of examining the expenditure of the year
 167 168 169 viva voce 170
 The Speaker  said, before the clerk read the petition, it would be desirable to read the resolutions of the House of the 6th of February, 1833, which necessarily had relation to this subject. It was to the following effect;—"That when a petition has been presented, and the prayer stated by a Member, the Speaker do desire such Member to bring the same to the table, and direct the clerk to read the same, without allowing any other Member to speak or put any question on such petition before the same has been read, unless it shall appear to the Speaker, or any Member, that the matter of such petition relates to a breach of the privileges of the House, or that, according to the rules and orders of the House, such petition ought not to be received."
 Mr. Hume  said, that it would probably be as well if the resolution of the 11th March was also read. It provided, that any Member who presented a petition should have previously read it, and be able to state the substance of its contents, and be prepared to say that in his judgment it was couched in proper language, and contained nothing disrespectful to the House. He suspected that this resolution would answer the intention, as it would leave it to hon. Members to say whether the petition contained matter for discussion or not, leaving it to the Speaker to interfere if he were wrong. He considered it would be better to abide by the resolutions of 1817.
 Mr. Wallace , was desirous that the petitions that were presented should be printed with the votes to be distributed to the Members. He would state to the House a practical fact, illustrating what at present took place with regard to the presentation of petitions. He had presented a petition to that House on the 27th of July last, hoping that it would be taken into consideration on the first notice day. He had been in his place every day during the time that Parliament had sat, and that petition had never been taken into consideration yet. One day during the interim, an election petition had been presented to which there was no opposition. A delay of half an hour took place, the House actually sat twenty-five or twenty-six minutes without transacting any business, and he proposed in desperation that the petition which he had previously presented should be then taken into consideration, when the Speaker interferred and prevented him, no doubt very properly and the petition had remained unconsidered up to the present hour. It was a petition of the greatest public importance. It prayed that the Acts of Parliament should be printed in a cheap form and sold at a price not dearer than the votes of that House. Unless some regulations were adopted, it would be totally impossible that petitions could be considered, as if he were to rise to speak on the subject, the hon. Member for Salford might get up and say, it was twelve or one o'clock, that it was a new subject, and that no hon. Member was entitled to enter on it at that hour. He thought that it would be better that no entry should be made of any resolutions on the Journals but that it should be left to the discretion of Members.
 Mr. Ward  said, that after the full discussion the subject had received yesterday, it was not his intention to occupy the time of the House. He should content himself by entering a protest by a division against laying down a rule which he conceived to be extremely bad and detrimental to the interests of the people, as it prevented discussion upon important questions. Having the House he should present the petition according to the rules now laid down, observing only that he
 199
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the hon. and gallant Member had made a trifling mistake, for he had called this a deliberative assembly. That was certainly going a great way. The gallant Colonel came here quite uncertain how he should vote; it was only by the result of the debate that he was induced to vote either one way or the other, but all hon. Members were not so unprejudiced; and it was therefore a mistake to say that this was a deliberative assembly. His hon. Friend near him had also fallen into a mistake, in stating that petitions formerly were spoken to four times, for the old practice of the House really gave an opportunity of speaking on them eight times. There was a great difference between that plan of proceeding and a Gagging Bill to prevent petitions from being discussed at all, which was the greatest violation of the old principle that could possibly take place. It would make the House disreputable in public opinion. The sooner the public were aware that the House treated their petitions with contempt by not deigning to listen to them the better; the remedy would come the sooner, and the public, who petitioned in vain would then clamour in such a way,
 204
 Colonel Conolly  could say, from his
 203
 Mr. Warburton  was not present during the discussion of the motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield, not being aware that it would come on so early, but if he had been present, he would have stated, that although he was perfectly willing to admit the convenience of the rule generally that had been adopted, yet that they ought not to take away the right of deliberating on petitions. During the first ten years that he sat in Parliament, he remembered that debates occurred upon this very Corn-law question, until nine o'clock in the evening, when each Member who presented a petition, had not only the right of debating upon one question, but of debating on four. There was first the question—"That this petition be brought up;" next, there was the question, "That this petition be now read;" then there was the question, "That this petition do lie on the table;" and then came the fourth question very often, "That this petition be printed." So that every Member presenting a petition had not only the opportunity of speaking on the full merits of all the subjects adverted to in the petition, but had the opportunity of speaking not less than four times—a right which applied to no other sort of motion. He could not disguise from himself, that except from the right of repeatedly debating questions on which petitions might be presented from the people, it would have been impossible to have carried many great questions that had been carried. Where would Negro Slavery—the emancipation of the Catholics, and the Reform of Parliament have stood, if it had not been possible to debate the question again and again until the people were excited upon them, and came forward with petitions. If this right were taken away, there were other modes left. It would not be difficult to introduce Poor-laws, or any other subject. He would recommend those individuals who thought the attention of the public had not been sufficiently drawn to the Corn-laws to take that step.
 Mr. Hume  said, it had been usual on such occasions as the present, when ob-
 201 No, no 202
 Mr. Clay  said they were now acting on the plan of deciding first and speaking afterward. The practice which had been formerly pursued by the recent division, seemed to have become a rule, and hon. Members had been securing convenience to themselves at the expense of the rights of the public. He believed that short and animated debates on petitions, were much attended to by the people, such debates presented opportunities for stating facts.
 Mr. Praed  rose to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary of the Home Department upon the subject of a statement which had appeared in the public papers relative to a gentleman of the name of Frost, who was a magistrate of the county of Monmouth, and also a delegate to a body now meeting in the metropolis, calling itself the National Convention. It was stated that this individual had received a letter from Lord J. Russell, stating to him, that if he did not withdraw from the proceedings of the Convention he would recommend the Lord Chancellor to remove his name from the commission of the peace. He (Mr. Praed) wished to know whether it was true that official notice had been called to the fact that this magistrate was a member of the National Convention; and whether, after that official notice had been taken, he still continued to be a magistrate?
 Mr. Praed  inquired if the noble Lord would have any objection to lay the correspondence upon the table of the House?
 Mr. Praed  then intimated that he should repeat the question to-morrow.
 Sir J. Y. Buller  did not mean to raise any objection to the measures of the noble Lord in their present stage, but he could not help adverting to the proposition made to pay the justices out of the county-rate. He thought that any attempt to pay the justices in this manner would be received very ill by the country. If the noble Lord would point out some other fund for this purpose than the county-rate, it would give considerable satisfaction. He wished also to call the attention of the House to the peculiar circumstances which would affect private bills for the recovery of small debts, in consequence of this motion of the noble Lord. Of course, if his measure should be carried, it would supersede the necessity of introducing any merely local bills; but if it should not pass, the case would be very different.
 Mr. V. Smith , in rising to move for the reappointment of the Select Committee on Church Leases, said, that he would not trespass on the time of the House by urging at any length the reasons for its reappointment, and he would content himself by simply stating that the main object was to enable the Committee to decide whether they would report upon the evidence already taken, or call for further evidence. The Committee would consist of the same Members of whom it was composed last session.
 Mr. V. Smith  begged to say, that the question to which the hon. Baronet's observations applied had been purposely excluded from the consideration of the committee of last year. The only question to which their attention was directed was whether it was possible to create a surplus, and therefore, the question of the hon. Baronet would be more appropriately put when the Committee had finished its labours.
 Mr. Brisco  approved of the reappointment of this Committee at the commencement of the Session, and he would take this opportunity of recording his opinion in favour of the measure already proposed to the House by her Majesty's Government. The measure ought to be gladly hailed by every member of the Established Church, because it would give a certain source of revenue for the maintenance of the fabric of the Church, it would remove
 228
 Lord Stanley  said, it certainly did seem rather extraordinary that upon the motion of his hon. Friend (if he would allow him to call him so) the Member for Kendal, for returns of the average prices of corn for every week during a certain period specified, a motion that was not likely to lead to any discussion, that not only his hon. Friend should come down with a vindication of his former statements, but that other hon. Gentlemen should be prepared with figures for the purpose of entering into partially (and it necessarily must be very partially) the whole state of the manufacturing interest of this country on such an occasion as this. He was not going into any details, far less would he go into the general merits of a question of such vast importance as the Corn-laws, and its bearing upon the manufactures of England. He did not pretend to have any acquaintance with that branch of industry, the woollen manufacture. But by a most singular coincidence they were again furnished with a valuable statement on the authority of the hon. Member for Leeds, because that hon. Member did not omit to state that there had been a considerable
 242 G. W. Wood 243 l l
 Sir H. Fleetwood  said, that he had stated, that in the building of those large factories it was not only requisite to enter into arrangements for building them before the time of erection, but he had likewise stated another observation to the noble Lord opposite—namely, that during the last year there were no additions to the number of factories in the course of erection. He was to leave town, tomorrow, to attend a large meeting at Preston, and be hoped he should have the satisfaction on his return to explain the real state of trade there.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that, however he
 247
 Sir R. Peel  wished to be informed whether the proposed bill was to be founded upon the report of the committee which had sat last year? The country was indebted to the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Lambeth, for the attention which he had devoted to the subject, and the information he had elicited. He apprehended, that the bill of the right hon. Gentleman had for its object the extension as far as possible, of the Metropolitan Police Act. That act had given the greatest satisfaction. Indeed, the only persons who had cause to be dissatisfied with it were the thieves and rogues. He apprehended, that the proposed bill would not materially alter an act which had been universally approved of, and which had been found so efficient,—Leave given.
 Lord J. Russell  then said, that he rose for leave to bring in several bills respecting the administration of justice. The first was a bill for the better ordering of prisons. He had introduced a similar bill in the last Session, but although it had undergone a good deal of discussion in this House, and had eventually passed it with very little opposition, it had been thrown out in the other House. If he were asked to suggest a reason for its being so thrown out, he could only suppose that it was on account of some misconception on the part of their Lordships as to the nature of the powers proposed by the Bill to be given to the Secretary of State, which might have been imagined to have been powers for enforcing rules for the separate confinement of prisoners. That, however, was a misconception; and, with a view to make the intention of the Bill still more clear, he (Lord J. Russell) had altered the words of the clause, by which it would now appear that the power was only to be given to the parties usually authorised to make such regulations, in order to be submitted to the Secretary of State. There was also another provision which he had to propose, to enable the justices of the county, and
 221
 Lord J. Russell  then rose to bring in Bills relating to the Jurisdiction of County Courts and of petty Sessions. He would state very generally the improvements he wished to introduce. It was a subject which, in various shapes, and on various grounds, had attracted the attention both of individuals and of the commissioners appointed by the Crown, and likewise of committees of both Houses of Parliament. Every one had felt that, according to the present state of the law, there was a great deal of unnecessary expenditure, hardship, and delay, in the manner in which persons guilty of very petty offences were dealt with, inasmuch as they were committed to prison for the purpose of being tried at the quarter session, which did not take place for some time after their committal. Upon this subject the county-rate committee, after discussing various propositions, had expressed an opinion against giving any summary power to justices of the peace to inflict punishment with respect to offences termed felonies, and suggested the erection of a separate court, with paid magistrates, empowered to decide on these matters. The Committee of the House of Lords last year, after examining several witnesses, some of whom were certainly entitled as authorities to the highest respect, decided that the present system was exceedingly objectionable, and that it was desirable to give justices the power of summary jurisdiction in cases of larceny. In one of their resolutions the committee stated, that if the exercise of this power should be limited to the cases of young offenders, the whole advantage of it would not be obtained, because a great many of the offences were committed by adults. They therefore proposed that the magistrates sitting in petty session should have the power of summary jurisdiction in cases of larceny. The committee of the House of Commons which sat last year on the subject of the metropolitan police took, on
 222 223 224 225
 Lord J. Russell  replied, that he would rather not answer that question without further consideration.
 Lord John Russell  said it was quite true, that upon observing in the public prints that Mr. Frost had attended public meetings of a violent character, and had been appointed a delegate to the National Convention, he directed a letter to be written to him to account for these circumstances, explaining that it was not with
 220
 Mr. Hindley  said, that in his judgment the noble Lord must be mistaken in the statement which he had made; and from his knowledge of that part of the country, he thought it would be impossible to show that nineteen new factories had been erected, not in Preston, but in the whole of the cotton manufacturing districts within the period the noble Lord had mentioned. There had been considerable prosperity in that branch of trade prior to 1836, and then, undoubtedly, several new factories were built; but he was certain, that within the last two years nothing of the kind had taken place. Oldham he knew to be in a state of lamentable depression, and, as far as his information extended, he was convinced, that the statement of the hon. Member for Manchester was perfectly true, and that manufacturers had been obliged to export their goods at a sacrifice. Although this was so, still they went on, but this fact only showed the danger of such statements as those which the hon. Member for Kendal had made. He did trust that such statements would not induce the House to refuse in-
 245
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that he was glad the right hon. gentleman had put the question, because it enabled him to refer to a most important part of the treaty. A distinction had always existed between goods, the produce of Asia and Africa, from ports within the Mediterranean, and similar goods from ports outside the Mediterranean. With a view to provide for such cases, he (Mr. Poulett Thomson) introduced a clause into the bill which had been alluded to, and which had not passed without entire attention, by which the Crown was permitted, as in other cases, by orders in Council on commercial matters, to afford the advantages given to British commerce to the ships of other European countries, and to allow them to bring the produce of Asia and Africa as well as the goods of their own nations. But a condition attached to this, that some equivalent or countervailing advantage should be given to British commerce, and that had been effected under the Austrian treaty, which had secured the privilege to English ships of bringing into the ports of Austria the goods of any port in the world on the same terms as Austrian ships. In return for that privilege, it had been accorded to Austria to do that which English ships could—namely, to bring the produce of Asia and Africa from Austrian ports in the Mediterranean. All that had been done by the clause referred to, had been to enable the Crown, as in other cases where an advantage of this kind was obtained, to secure that advantage by a very small and moderate concession.
 Mr. Baines  begged to offer an observation or two as to the state of the woollen manufacturers. In 1838, as compared with the four preceding years, there was a
 240 l l l 241
 Mr. Baines  said he had to present a petition from the borough of Leeds, signed by upwards of 23,000 of the inhabitants of all classes—
 218 "That all men had an inalienable right to the free exchange of their capital, skill, and labour for the productions of the people of their own and foreign nations; and that all restrictions on the interchange of nations are unjust in principle and injurious in practice. That the welfare of all the industrious classes of the British empire was inseparably bound up with the prosperity of its foreign trade. That the manufacturers of this country for a long series of years had enjoyed great advantages from the amount of their capital, the perfection of their machinery, and the industry and skill of their workmen. These advantages (the petitioners said) were no longer in the exclusive possession of this country, but that the other nations of Europe, wisely availing themselves of twenty-three years of peace, and having accumulated abundant capital to form manufacturing establishments and to train skilful workmen, were not only supplying their home markets with manufactured goods, which in former years they imported from this country, but were successfully competing with the British manufacturers in the common markets of the world. That the formation and consolidation of the manufacturing system of the continent was, in their opinion, in a very great degree attributable to our Corn-laws, which, by excluding grain and other agricultural produce from our ports, which the European nations had alone to offer us, had prevented them from purchasing our manufactures, and compelled them to manufacture for themselves. That they regarded this state of our affairs, as a manufacturing nation, with unfeigned alarm, and they expressed their deliberate and solemn conviction, that in order to maintain successful competition with our foreign rivals, and to preserve the capital of the nation from destruction, either the Corn-laws must be repealed, or the wages of labour in this country would be forced down to the level of the money rates paid for labour on the continent of Europe." "That a large reduction of manufacturing wages, while the Corn-laws are maintained, which enhance the price of the prime necessaries of life from 60 to 70 per cent. above the
 219 "That as a measure of strict justice to all the consumers of food, as the only mode by which the foreign trade of the nation, and the comfort and prosperity of its whole population could be preserved from destruction—as a necessary means to the stability of our social institutions—and as a guarantee for the maintenance of peace amongst the civilised nations of the world, this honourable House would repeal the laws, relative to the importation of foreign corn and other foreign articles of subsistence, and carry out to the fullest extent, both as regards agriculture and manufacture, the true and peaceful principles of free trade, by removing all existing obstacles to the unrestricted employment of industry and capital."
 Sir G. Sinclair  did not intend to oppose the renewal of this Committee, but he thought it was equally just and desirable that the Church and the Dissenters, the House and the country, should be made fully aware what was the specific object which her Majesty's Ministers expected or intended to attain through its reappointment. He knew very well that the Committee was originally moved for, in order to ascertain whether, by a different system of management, an improved value might not be conferred upon the
 226 227
 Mr. G. W. Wood  rose to move for a return of the price of wheat, and he apprehended that when the return was made, it would be found that within the last year the price of corn varied from 52 s d s. d s d 229 l l l l l l l., l l l l l 230 231 Gazette,
 Me. G. W. Wood  in reply, was understood to say, it would have been very easy to have pointed out, that the great increase which prevailed was in the raw material, on which no labour was bestowed except by the foreign manufacturers. The hon. Member had referred to the banking system in America. He had made no reference to the banking system in America. He had said there was great distress in this country, and we ought to find a remedy for it; but that did not arise from any error on the part of the manufacturers. He thought, that the information he had been laying before the House, whether for better or worse, was matter of importance and that, therefore, the arguments on both sides of the question should be taken into consideration. The petitioners apprehended, and the documents which he had read proved in a very satisfactory way the reality of those dangers which they apprehended, from the competition of the manufacturers abroad.
 Mr. Herries  observed, that there was another point which had not been touched upon, to which he begged to call attention. He wished to ask whether Austrian ships could bring goods, the produce of Asia or Africa, to English ports? This, under the old navigation laws could not be done, and it had been suggested to him, that a clause had been introduced into a bill of last Session, brought forward at a period when Members paid but little attention to the business of the House, by which clause, the ancient and former provisions of the navigation laws were re-
 251
 Mr. Mark Phillips  would intreat hon. Members opposite not to come to the conclusion hastily, that because our exports during the last year assumed the aspect stated, it followed as a matter of course that upon every article exported a profit had been reaped, or that the manufacturer was necessarily in a prosperous condition. He did not mean to enter, any more than the right hon. Baronet had, into a general discussion on the Corn-laws, but he might be allowed to advert to an article of deep importance to those whom he represented. He could, if necessary, touch upon every article mentioned by the hon. Member for Kendal, in the tabular statement he had laid before the House, but it was his intention to confine his observations solely to one great object—the article of cotton-twist. There were Gentlemen in the House representing other great interests in the country, and he would not trespass on their ground, by speaking of facts and circumstances, connected with other branches of manufacture. With respect, however, to the large increase in the exportation of cotton-twist, whatever conclusion might be drawn from the fact of that increased exportation, it was only due to himself and his own constituents to state what his own impression on the subject was; and he had the satisfaction of knowing, that he was speaking in the presence of Members on the other side of the House, called on to represent interests similar to those he represented—Gentlemen practically acquainted with the different branches of cotton manufacture—and if anything should fall from him of an extravagant nature, he hoped those Gentlemen would set him right. With respect to the increase of cotton-twist, the conclusion he (Mr. Phillips) came to was this, that instead of seeing any thing cheering, he drew conclusions from it far from satis-
 238 239
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he had not the slightest objection to the course adopted by the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. He had no objection to the production of the returns which had been moved for, and he must say that nothing could be more natural than for the hon. Gentleman to attempt—although the attempt must be perfectly useless—to remove the impression which was made, not on his mind alone, but he would venture to say on the mind of every person who had heard, and of every one who had read, the important statement
 232 233 234 "The House would, perhaps, indulge him for a short time, whilst he referred to the present state of the manufactures and commerce of the country. Two years ago great commercial distress and the utmost uneasiness prevailed in all branches of trade." 235 "He did not think that 1838 was an improper year to contrast with the four preceding years in order to show that the depressed state of our manufactures no longer existed. The years 1834 and 1835 were years of steady prosperity, 1836 was a year of overtrading, and 1837 a year of great depression," "His attention had been called to the shipping interest, and he was happy in having it in his power to lay before the House particulars exhibiting the state of the shipping of England, which, though it was represented a few years ago to be in a state of great embarrassment and adversity, had now assumed a vigorous condition and was rapidly extending." 236 "Via prima salutis, (Quod minimè reris), Graiâ pandetur ab urbe." 237
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that there was no doubt that the question might arise, supposing the Committee should report that it was possible to create a surplus, and he, therefore, gave as early an intimation as possible that he adhered to the opinion which he expressed last year, when the motion for the appointment of this Committee was originally made. He begged it to be distinctly understood that he made no concession to the principle upon which that Committee was appointed in offering no opposition to the present motion. The House agreed to appoint the Committee, and the question was fully debated at the time, and it would certainly not be convenient to discuss the question now, whether it should be reappointed, thinking, as he did, that it would be most expedient to pursue the inquiry which had already been partially prosecuted. He could not, however, allow the motion for its renewal to pass without stating that he entirely dissented from the principle upon which the Committee was originally appointed, and that to any attempt to divert any expected surplus from purposes purely ecclesiastical he should give every opposition in his power.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the noble Lord had quite misunderstood him if the noble Lord supposed that he had said one word in disparagement of these treaties, especially as to that with Austria. With regard to the treaty with Turkey, the design and principle of which he held to be good, he was only afraid that, in the present social state of that country, very great difficulties, perhaps a complication of the political relations of this country, would arise. This, however, would not be the fault of the treaty, but of the condition of Turkey at present. As to Austria, he was quite aware that the present treaty went beyond that of the year 1829, and he had not attempted or intended to represent it as a mere renewal of that treaty. What he (Sir R. Peel) had said was, that he thought that the hon. Gentleman, in omitting to state that the treaty made in 1829 was the same in principle, had concealed an important fact. This treaty was in principle the same as that signed in 1829 by his noble Friend the Earl of Aberdeen. The traffic with Malta and other places in the Mediterranean provided for in the present treaty was not alluded to in the treaty of 1829, and he had expressly stated on a former occasion that the increase and improvement in steam navigation would naturally account for this extension of the principle contained in the treaty of 1829.
 250
 Sir Robert Peel  inquired, whether it would not be in the power of Turkey, if so inclined, to impose restrictions on the navigation of the Danube, so as to interfere with the advantages held out by this treaty, unless Turkey was concurrent in the treaty?
 Mr. Clay  said, the noble Lord, in commenting on the speech of his hon. Friend, had done so with all his usual dexterity, but with scarcely his usual fairness. He had thought proper to assert that his hon. Friend's speech did not at all go to remove the impression which those facts which had been stated the other night had a tendency to create. That was not giving a fair impression of the speech of his hon.
 244
 Viscount Palmerston : I apprehend it will not.
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that no such concurrence as that hinted by the right hon. Baronet would be necessary, and he (Lord Palmerston) would simply explain why it would not be so. The object of the treaty was to give the same privilege to the ships of each country in direct trade with the two countries—that was to say, that Austrian ships from Austrian ports should be received in British ports as British vessels, and that British ships from British ports should be received in Austrian ports like Austrian vessels. But the treaty contained a restriction to this effect, that either Austrian or British vessels coming from Turkish ports in the Danube should be admitted into the ports of either country as if they came from ports of their own countries. Therefore, the right hon. Baronet would see that no engagement was necessary between Austria and England as to the footing on which ships coming from ports in the Danube should proceed.
 Viscount Palmerston,  in presenting some papers to the House by command of her Majesty relating to the treaty of commerce recently entered into between
 248 249
 Mr. S. O'Brien  expressed his general concurrence in the plan of education proposed by the noble Lord, He regretted but one thing—that the amount of the proposed grant was so miserably small. A grant of 30,000 l l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, if the meaning of his hon. Friend was, that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had suggested the present motion, he begged distinctly to disavow it. If it had been his object to revive the Committee, he would have been himself the person to make the proposition to the House. The motion was made without any knowledge on his part. He knew nothing about it until he saw the notice on the paper. At the same time, he should be guilty of concealing half the case if he did not state to the House, that if the hon. Baronet (Sir Matthew Wood) had not proposed to renew this Committee, he, for one, should have done so, with the direct object his hon. Friend (Sir Robert Inglis) had men-
 313
 Mr. E. Ellice , jun. (St. Andrew's) without adverting to the various subjects introduced in the speeches of his hon. and learned Friends, would observe on one question alone—the fitness or unfitness of the judicial bench of Scotland for the due discharge of the duties resting upon them. At the present moment four of the judges were disqualified by personal infirmity from serving, so that there was great danger, that the public business might, in the event of illness among the other judges, be suspended altogether until their recovery. Three of the judges in question were disqualified in such a way as to leave no hope of their ever being able again efficiently to perform the duties of their office. He now referred particularly to one (while he desired to express his high respect for his professional character) who, by reason of his great age and other infirmities, had come nearly to a state of mental imbecility. In the next case, the
 329
 Mr. Hope  said, he was able, from his own personal knowledge, to contradict much that had been stated in respect to the Scotch judges, and he regretted hit hon. Friend, the Member for St. Andrew's, had been led into the statement he had made.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the judges of Scotland were not adequately paid for their services. It was impossible they could save money, and yet support their families. It was a paltry species of economy, that they were not allowed to resign on full salaries. Such economy was pursued both in Scotland and Ireland, and was equally bad in both countries.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion of his hon. Friend. Although Government might see fit occasionally to introduce measures of importance towards the close of the Session, yet that could seldom be the case. The President of the Board of Trade must in general be aware of what was required to be brought forward before that period. Last Session, more bills affecting important interests had been brought forward at a late period than in any other Session. He thought that this Motion which would compel an early introduction of important measures, would prevent the public being taken by surprise.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that some bills of the nature alluded to by his hon. Friend who had brought forward this Motion, could only be introduced at a late period of the Session. If hon. Gentlemen paid attention to the manner in which public business had of late pressed on the
 336 337
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that having a motion upon the books of the same nature as the hon. Member for Greenock, though he proposed to effect the same object by different means, he would say a word or two. He considered that his proposition, that no public bill be read a second time after a day to be fixed at the commence-
 338
 Sir G. Clerk  objected to both motions, and would resist any attempt to place any limitation upon the House in respect to the introduction of those measures which the public interest might demand. The President of the Board of Trade had talked a great deal about the reductions he had made, and was prepared to make in duties on articles of commerce. He was glad, that the right hon. Gentleman had thus gone far to make up for a material omission in her Majesty's Speech, and he was happy, that the public had to expect reductions in those duties. He hoped, that in future the estimates would be laid on the Table of the House within the time agreed upon by the House, on the motion of Sir John Newport. He also trusted, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would find it convenient to revert back to the old system, and commence the financial system from the 5th of January, so that the balance sheet of the Government might be laid on the Table of the House one week from the meeting of Parliament. It was now brought forward, if not at the very end, at a very late period of the Session, and the President of the Board of Trade was obliged to wait until the Budget was brought forward before he could in-
 339
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would take upon himself to say, and he believed without fear of contradiction, that ever since he had the honour of filling the situation he then held, the estimates of the great interests of the country—the estimates for the navy, the army, and the ordinance, had always been laid on the Table of the House within the period limited by the motion of Sir John Newport. His hon. Friend opposite had asked him to return to the old financial year, but allow him to ask, in what condition was the House placed under the old practice? Why, in nine cases out of ten, the Ministry were carrying on the affairs of Government without any authority whatever from Parliament. The right hon. Baronet knew well enough, that such was the case with many of the Governments with which he had been connected. On the accession of the present Ministry, they were told from all parts of the House, that they ought rather to adopt the plan followed by the French Chamber, and take a vote of confidence, than proceed on the plan which had hitherto been followed. The Government, however, took a different course. They altered the financial year from January to April, and they were supported, not only by the great body of the House, but also by the people out of doors. By the plan now in practice the Government had always the sanction of Parliament; the number of men were voted; the Mutiny Bill might be progressing, and the wages of the navy would be paid, and all would go on under the sanction of the House. It would be a great departure from principle if they were to go back to the old system, unless at the same time they were also to recur to the old practice of assembling in November. If the House met, at that time, Government might make the financial year commence in January; but meeting as they did in February, it was absolutely necessary that they should adhere to the system of commencing the financial year with April. He trusted, that his hon. Friend would not divide the House, for he obtained all that he wished by getting a recognition of his principle which should be followed in all practical cases.
 Mr. Warburton  said, if he understood the
 340
 Mr. Wallace  did not mean to divide the House upon the question. He would merely say, that if bills had to pass through seven stages, instead of five, this would be an argument in favour of an earlier bringing in of bills. He thought the financial year ought to be closed in January. He thought, that such a course would save a vast deal of trouble to the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 The Solicitor-General  would not detain the House on the present occasion, but he could not let that opportunity pass without tendering his thanks to his right hon. Friend for the useful and material alteration in the law, which he proposed to introduce. It was, no doubt, a most material alteration, most desirable in itself, but he could not help looking at the two first propositions of making a more effectual register of judgments and Crown debts as at least one important step to the panacea—the real medicine and remedy for a great many of these evils, the establishment of a good system of general registry—He looked to this as a most important advance, he did not treat it as an immaterial matter in the benefit which it contained itself, but he looked at it with most satisfaction as an advance, and an advance in the right direction, towards that which was the only effectual remedy for our present complicated and expensive system of real property.
 Sir George Clerk  entirely approved of the main objects of this bill, and the necessity of introducing better discipline into prisons, and providing further accommodation therein. No person who had been in Scotland but must regret the state of the prisons there; but the hon. Member had introduced some things into his bill which were not connected with the main object, the improvement of prisons. He approved of the alteration as far as it went, but he wished to call the attention of the hon. Gentleman to the propriety of separating that part of the bill which went to provide for the improvement of prison discipline in Scotland, from that which provided for the building of one or two, or three other prisons for the confinement of prisoners after trial, and wherein an improved system of discipline was to be carried into effect. He thought the providing by an assessment for the building these additional prisons, without immediately raising the question as to the propriety of throwing the burthen of the expense upon the people, was premature. No person knew the proportion of expense which would be thrown on the people, because in former bills, he believed the returns from the different counties were made up on different principles and for different objects, and did not offer the means of judging of the present case. He regretted, the principal Secretary of State for the Home Department was not in the House, because he should be fortified by an observation made by the noble Lord to the House on his intended measure for building prisons. The hon. Gentleman had much better have divided his bill into two parts, and he hoped before the bill passed he would see the propriety of so separating it. He would add, that as little time should be lost as possible in carrying through the measure con-
 345 l
 Mr. Fox Maule  was surprised at the course adopted by the hon. Gentleman. A new light seemed to have dawned upon him. He viewed with alarm the proposition of the hon. Member as it led him to anticipate an opposition to the measure which he had not anticipated. Notwithstanding all that had been said by the hon. Baronet, he considered it better, that the bill should be proceeded with in its single shape.
 Mr. Aglionby  considered the subject with respect to the Scotch judges had been
 335
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he thought the matter ought to be left to the discretion of the House. At all events, it was quite useless to pass such a resolution as this, as to which there would be a dispute every time it was attempted to be enforced. For instance, as to the words "urgent business," there would always be a discussion on that question; and so with regard to the words "likely to create a debate." There would be always a debate of half an hour to decide whether the subject was "likely to create a debate" or not.
 Mr. Fox Maule  felt it his duty, after what had fallen from his hon. Friend, to say a few words, because if what he had stated were really the fact, it could not but reflect discredit on the Government that they had not looked with sufficient vigilance to the administration of justice in Scotland. With regard to what his hon. Friend had stated, this was the first time he had heard that that distinguished and venerable judge (Lord Gillies) was afflicted with mental imbecility, That he was not bending under the weight of years, he (Mr. Maule) was not prepared to assert; but that his mental faculties were not adequate to the discharge of his duties he was prepared to deny. It was not surprising that men of large families should struggle, even under the weight of declining years, to maintain their position and receive their salaries from the public to an hour when perhaps it would be more prudent that they should retire from the discharge of their public duties. Was it to be concluded however, that the feelings of a father in leaning to the interests of his family should wholly overlook the interest of the public. For the first time in twenty-eight years, after active and zealous services, one distinguished judge was absent from his post.—No one who had looked to the administration of justice in Scotland, could hesitate in dealing out to the Lord Justice
 330
 Lord Ashley  wished to ask the noble Lord whether it were the intention of Government to continue the grant of 20,000 l
 Lord John Russell,  in reply to the noble Lord's question, stated, that it certainly was not the intention of Government to propose another grant of 20,000 l
 Lord J. Russell  presented certain papers relating to Education. In moving that they be laid upon the Table, the noble Lord said, that he was anxious, as so much discussion had recently taken place on the subject, to explain, though without going into detail either as to the degree of education or the plan that might be proposed—to state generally the outline of the views of her Majesty's Government on this question, because whatever objections might be made to their views and intentions—to whatever opposition they might be exposed—it was certainly desirable that the opposition should be grounded on what they really intended, and not on any fanciful suggestions of those who chose to say "such and such are the intentions of the Government," and then launch out into he most violent objections against that supposed plan. He was one of those who thought there still existed a lamentable want of education, especially among the poorer classes of the community; and he had thought it his duty to represent that conviction to her Majesty, and to call her Majesty's attention to that subject. The present state of education might be gathered from the various reports that had been made to this House, from the
 274 275 276 277 278 279 l 280 281 l l l 282 l l "That he hastened to express his readiness to comply with the request which had been made, and rejoiced that the office which he
 283 284 285
 Lord John Russell : in respect to the question which the right hon. Baronet has asked—namely, whether the sum which may be voted by this House for building school-houses for the National Education Society are to be under the control of the Treasury or of this new board?—my answer is, that while we are placing other subjects of the same nature under the control of the board, the disposal of this grant would likewise come under its direction. The right hon. Baronet seems to
 310 311
 Lord John Russell,  in reply to the observation of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn), stated, that he wished to have as early an opportunity as possible of stating to the House, the general view which the Government took of the subject, because much misconception at present prevailed upon that point. The House would not be called upon to consent to any vote of money without being informed of the exact course which Government intended to pursue. The noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool (Viscount Sandon), had asked him how the doctrines of the Church of England were to be guaranteed in the normal schools? That undoubtedly was one of the points upon which the board, when formed, would have to deliberate. He supposed that there must be a clergyman of the Church of England to teach the doctrines of that Church.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the board would be constituted entirely of persons holding other offices and receiving no salary. It would, no doubt, be competent to the Government to change the members of the board; but, in that case, though persons holding no other office might be placed upon it, no salary would be paid. With regard to the other question asked by the hon. Gentleman, he did not anticipate that the board would have any funds from which to make any allowance to schools. If there should be any vote of money to the British and Foreign School Society, they might make an appropriation of that sum; but he did not think that any vote of the present year would place a fund at their disposal.
 Lord John Russell  repeated, that he did not anticipate that any sum which might be voted this year would be applied either in aid of schools or school-houses. The only available sum would be part of the
 303
 Mr. Bannerman  had been in the Court of Session in Edinburgh, and he had there seen a venerable judge, an honourable and upright man, and had heard him deliver his opinion on two short cases. He was in such a state of imbecility, that he regretted to see him, and he was prompted by his brother judges on the right and left. The Lord President was not there on that occasion; and he was sorry to hear his hon. Friend say, that his mind was decayed; he was, however, in bad health. He hoped the Scottish judges would soon be enabled to retire on full salaries, and if his hon. Friend did not bring forward a measure to enable them, he would.
 Mr. Pringle  denied, that the venerable Scottish judge alluded to by Mr. Bannerman, was in a state of imbecility; he was in full possession of those splendid abilities for which he had been so much and so justly admired in Scotland. It had been lately his lot to hear him give his opinion on some case, and he could assure the hon. Member, that the learned judge evinced that singular ingenuity of mind by which he had long astonished his hearers. There was no judge in his recollection, who had borne a higher character than that venerable judge had done.
 Mr. Horsman  would recommend his hon. Friend to withdraw his motion for a Committee, which he was certain nothing but a sense of public duty could have induced his hon. Friend to bring forward. The hon. Baronet, the Member for Stamford, must have misunderstood what had been stated, when he referred to Lord Corehouse; it was, he believed, stated generally, that the Scotch judges were inefficient from age or bad health, but no special allusion was made to Lord Core-house. If the power of securing the comforts of age were withheld from those venerable characters, it was to be expected they would remain on the bench till overtaken by years and infirmity. He thought his hon. Friend had obtained his object in the public attention he had attracted to the state of the judicial bench in Scotland, and he did not foresee any objection to his withdrawing his motion.
 Mr. F. French  asked if there had not been some difficulty in obtaining the barracks which were not used by soldiers in Ireland, and which the Ordnance, though it had been agreed that they should be given up for the Poor-law purposes, had refused to part with, except at very high prices?
 Mr. Shaw  said, that difficulties had occurred in the city of Dublin with regard to the operation of this act, which it would be necessary to relieve by some legislative measure. He hoped that every bill on this subject, like the one of last year, would be discussed without reference to party feelings, and he hoped, that this would be the case in Ireland also in all proceedings that might be taken in consequence of this measure, but he was sorry, that in the city of Limerick such had not been the case. He thought, if the House of Industry in Dublin were placed under the superintendence of the Commissioners, a considerable saving would be effected, but he wished to recommend a class of old and deserving officers belonging to that institution, and who would be thrown out of employment, to the consideration of the noble Lord. The noble Lord would make no specific motion on the subject, as he was of opinion, that the Lords of the Treasury were the proper persons to be applied to to make the provision on this subject, but, however that question might be, he hoped that the cases of these officers would receive the consideration they deserved.
 Mr. Goulburn  expressed a hope that the noble Lord would lay upon the Table the definite rules which were to govern the board in the distribution of the funds to be applied to the purposes of education.
 Mr. Briscoe  begged leave to call the attention of the House to the state of religion and education in the remote parts of the country. He hoped that some alteration would take place on that subject, and that the most necessitous parts of the country would not be the most neglected.
 Mr. Hope Johnstone  said, it was true his venerable relative the President of the Court of Session was now advanced in years, and he was far from denying, that that advance in years had not told considerably against him. He had been in constant communication with that venerable person, and he could say, that in all the ordinary intercourse of life it was impossible to see the slightest symptoms of that mental debility to which the hon. Member had alluded. The observations of the hon. Bart. the Member for Stamford (Sir G. Clerk) had done away with the necessity of his saying a great deal that he had intended to state; but he could not
 332
 The Lord Advocate  said, that the only difficulty which he had, was, not in answering any one point put by the hon. Member as a ground for the granting of the committee for which he prayed, but the selection of one which presented the smallest reason for the motion being acceded to. The hon. Gentleman had gone over every department of the law of Scotland, and had made observations on most of them, none of which, however, appeared to be founded on any very strong ground. He had often expressed a wish that the hon. Gentleman would attend the Court of Session for a month, and he had expressed his belief, that the hon. Member in that time would have an opportunity of acquiring some knowledge in reference to their proceedings. He was confident that if the hon. Member had acted upon this suggestion, he would have received a great deal of information, and he would have viewed the matter in a very different light from that in which he now looked upon it. What was the nature of the present motion, however? Was the hon. Member serious in making it? The hon. Gentleman must recollect that on the one subject alone of Sheriff's Courts, a committee of this House had sat in the last year. What better right had the House then to believe that any committee now appointed, would be more successful in its inquiries than that? If the hon. Member had desired to set up any par-
 325 326 327 328 l l l
 Mr. Brotherton  rose to move, "that it is desirable that no new business should be brought on, likely to create debate, after twelve o'clock at night, except under urgent circumstances." It was fortunate for him, that he could bring on this motion, it being five minutes to twelve, without violating the principle he wished to lay down. His object was to ascertain, by the feeling of the House, whether he was likely to be supported in his objections against mid-
 349
 Mr. Brotherton  would take the opinion of the House, as a means of, in some
 350
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  would detain the House but a very few moments with his motion respecting a bill to amend the laws relating to the registration of voters in Ireland, and to assimilate them as much as possible to those of England. The present state of the law was admitted on all hands to be exceedingly defective, and this was the opinion of all per-
 346 pro formâ,
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  should not have trespassed upon the House, had it not been stated by the noble Lord in the course of his speech, that the system of national education in Ireland, which was brought forward by the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, had been attended with the most signal success. He thought, that he should be wanting in his duty to the House, and he should certainly be wanting in his duty to Ireland, if he did not in opposition to that assertion state one or two facts. He did not know whether the noble Lord had directed his attention to the report of the committee appointed to inquire into this subject. Perhaps the noble Lord had not had time, but if he had looked into the report, he would have found, that the national education system in Ireland, instead of meeting with the most signal success had proved an utter and complete failure. [ No, no! 286 287
 Captain Wood  said, if the expense of improving the avenues to the Royal Exchange was to be defrayed by a tax, why was not that tax openly proposed in the House, rather than sought for by means of a Committee?
 Sir Matthew Wood , pursuant to notice, moved for the appointment of a Select Committee to take into their consideration the several plans for the Improvement of the Metropolis, concerning which reports were made to this House in the years 1836, 1837, and 1838; together with any other plans for the same object which they might deem deserving of consideration, and to report their opinion as to the expediency of adopting any of the said improvements; and also as to the best means of carrying the same into effect.
 Mr. Wallace  rose to move, in pursuance of notice, that a Committee be appointed to inquire into the mode of administering justice in Scotland. In bringing under the consideration of the House this very important subject, he should endeavour to do so in a manner that would divest it of anything that could possibly admit of its being construed into a political question. The judges of the Scottish courts were pretty nearly equally divided in political opinions. He desired no other Committee but such as would give a pure and disinterested decision upon the questions which would be brought before them. He understood that an opinion prevailed, that questions of this kind ought not to be submitted to the consideration of a committee, but that it should be left to the government to point out and prescribe such rules as were sufficient, and effect the changes necessary in the jurisprudence of the country. In the year 1834, an hon. Member obtained a committee to take into consideration the amount of salary to be paid to the judges in the courts of Scotland, and also to inquire into the nature of the duties of those judges. Here, then, was a precedent for his present motion. He meant to bring under the consideration of the House the present state of the court of session, of the jury trial by that court, of the trial before the court of appeal, the mode of trial before the justiciary and general courts, and the node of proceeding in the criminal and civil courts, and also in the court of teinds. But before he drew the attention of the House to the first point that he had mentioned, he wished to observe that there wag, no doubt, over all the land an anxious desire for an alteration and for an improvement in the administration of justice; it appeared that small debt courts
 315 * * 316 vivâ voce 317 An hon. Member: 318 319 Name, name! 320 321 sederunt sederunt, 322 l 323 324
 Mr. Wallace  thought, that the House had run away from the question, and that it would be vain on his part to attempt to bring them back to it. In answer, however, to the observations of the Attorney-General, he had to complain that they would not allow juries to try for shillings and sixpences in Scotland, but they would for necks. He would not detain the House, to take a division on the subject; but seeing the impression that was entertained, he would withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Wyse  hoped he should not be considered as unreasonable or obtrusive, if from the deep interest he had taken from his first entry into Parliament, in this most important subject, he ventured, on such an occasion as the present, to trespass for a few moments on the indulgence of the House. [ Hear. 290 Cheers. 291 Hear, hear. 292 Hear, hear. 293 l 294 besides hear! 295 Hear, hear. 296 297 298 Hear, hear. Hear, hear. 299 Hear, hear 300 301
 Mr. Gladstone  observed, that at present a sum of money was annually voted to aid the building of school-houses. He wished to know whether the new board of education would be free to make grants of money, in aid either of schools or school-houses, in which schools or school-houses any form of religion, or no form of religion, might be taught.
 Mr. Gladstone  wished to know, whether the proposed board of education was to be composed entirely of persons unpaid, and at the same time holding other offices. He understood the noble Lord to state, that it was to be composed of privy councillors; but he did not distinctly understand, whether they were to be persons actually holding other offices. There was one other point also, a point of much greater consequence—a point of the most vital importance—upon which he wished to be more clearly informed. The noble Lord had given no intimation whatever as to
 302
 Mr. Gillon  denied, that the judges of Scotland were under paid. He thought, considering the short period the judges sat, they were admirably paid for the duties they performed. He thought the public money could not be better applied than by giving the judge a proper retiring provision, but it should be at that time of life when they were incapable of performing their duties.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  would take this opportunity of protesting against the delay that had taken place in bringing this measure into operation. It was too bad, that
 348
 Sir E. Codrington  supported the motion. On an occasion of his wishing to oppose the passing of a Bill, which was to him an exceedingly obnoxious one, he had attended the House four or five days until two o'clock in the morning; and on the last day, or rather night, he was assured there was no chance of the Bill being passed; and yet, on the following day, he learnt, to his great surprise, that it had been read a third time and passed at half-past two in the morning.
 Sir George Clerk  rejoiced exceedingly that the hon. Gentleman, the under Secre-
 331 O'Connell
 The Attorney-General,  having been alluded to so pointedly by his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Greenock, begged to make a few observations. He entirely concurred in the view taken of this subject by his learned Friend, the Lord Advocate. He had had a very fair opportunity of seeing how justice was administered in Scotland; and he must say, that, on the whole, it was administered very satisfactorily. That there were abuses, no one would deny, although they had been most monstrously exaggerated by the hon. Member for Greenock. The House would recollect what the hon. Member said about the people of Scotland being mulcted in 2,000,000 l l 333 s
 Sir R. Inglis  could not quite approve of the course which his hon. and learned Friend had adopted, and he should not be tempted to follow his example, and to carry the discussion to Ireland. He should confine himself to the scheme which had been brought forward by his noble Friend, and to the proposals to which his noble Friend had called the attention of the House. But, in the first place, he could not help expressing his satisfaction at the manner in which the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had developed the plan of the Government in reference to this most important subject. He could not but feel, that, with the exception of one passing allusion, his noble Friend had laid the scheme of the Government before the House with great temper and discretion, and with much ability. The noble Lord certainly lost his temper for a moment, when his (Sir R. Inglis's) lion. Friend on the third bench cheered an expression of the noble Lord having reference to the Church of England. [ "No no!" 288 289
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that it had been insinuated that the re-appointment of this Committee was for the purpose of ascertaining what their construction was of the Act of Parliament relating to the improvements of the avenues leading to the new Royal Exchange. To this he strongly objected. The law officers of the crown were the proper persons to construe an act of Parliament for the guidance of the Government. If, therefore, the re-appointment of the Committee was not necessary for the purpose of carrying out the general improvement of the metropolis, he hoped the House would not consent to the motion.
 Sir Robert Peel  saw no objection to the re-appointment of the Committee, nor did he know of any objection to refer the papers relating to the Royal Exchange to them. At all events, considering that several gentlemen had gratuitously devoted their time to the devising of plans for the improvement of the metropolis, he thought there could be no objection to further consideration being given to those plans, especially as they would not be in the slightest degree committing themselves as to the question whether there should be any tax or not imposed on account of those plans. It was possible, that the hon. and worthy Alderman might propose some other tax, besides a tax on coals.
 314
 Sir R. Peel  thought it of the greatest importance, before the House was called upon to give any vote on this subject, that these points should be settled—that the House should be placed in possession of distinct information as to the principles
 304 l 305 306 l 307 John Russell 308 309
 Viscount Dungannon  concurred with the last speaker, that the adoption of the motion would lead to endless disputes. Every Member would naturally consider his own measure to be of urgent necessity, and universal exceptions would entirely put aside the rule. The effort would be found to be futile and useless.
 Viscount Morpeth  was not aware that any very high prices had been demanded for such barracks by the Ordnance, which could not however, it should be recollected, part with those buildings for nothing, but was bound to require a fair price for them, and he did not think that they had shown a disposition to ask more; with respect to the complaint as to the delay in carrying out the Poor-law Act, the hon. Member (Mr. S. O'Brien) was the last person who ought to make that complaint for the county he represented (Limerick) had already been divided into Unions, and the work was going on throughout Ireland as quickly as possible.
 Viscount
 347 , in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend an Act of the 1st and 2d Victoria 1., cap. 56 for the more effectual relief of the poor in Ireland, stated that his object was to remedy a considerble degree of perplexity which had arisen consequent upon some of the clauses of the act referred to. In certain districts of Ireland it turned out, that the machinery for carrying the act into operation did not exist at all, consequently, the commissioners were at a perfect stand-still. This would be remedied. Provision would also be made for more accurately defining the boundaries of districts. Provision had been made in the act for certain preliminary expenses. These expenses were of a very limited nature, and provision was intended to be made for raising a limited sum with a view to meet them. It was directed by the act, that appeals should be heard at the courts of quarter sessions, which were presided over by assistant barristers. Now, there were certain towns, where assistant barristers did not preside; this bill would remedy the defect.
 Viscount Sandon,  alluding to the normal schools which it was proposed to establish for the education of teachers, begged to know what guarantee was given for the nature of the religious instruction to be given in those schools?
 Captain Gordon : I beg leave to ask whether the pamphlet published yesterday, as an answer to another publication, was printed under the authority of the Board of Admiralty.
 Mr. Villiers : I am extremely sorry that any mistake should have arisen on the subject of my notice; but as there seems to be a variation between the notice and what I intend to move, I shall state what my notice was meant to be:—"That I shall present a petition or petitions to this House on the subject of the Corn-laws, alleging certain things, and that I shall on Tuesday move, that the allegations of the petitions be supported by evidence at the bar of the House.
 Mr. Villiers : the right hon. Baronet has not correctly represented the course which I have taken. I gave notice, that I should present a petition on one night, and, that I should make a motion subsequently to support it by evidence. I have to regret, that the written notice which I gave to the clerk did not precisely correspond with that form; but I beg to state, that on the second night after the meeting of Parliament I stated the course which I meant to take in so distinct a manner, as entirely to relieve me or the noble Lord from the charge of taking the House by surprise. The question was put to me by the hon. Gentleman near the right hon. Baronet (Mr. Christopher), and I was a little surprised to hear that hon. Gentleman cheer the right hon. Baronet, when I recollected the distinct answer which I gave to him on that occasion; namely, that it was not my intention to raise the general question of the repeal of the Corn-laws on that day when I meant to move, that evidence should be heard in support of the allegations of the petitions which I should present; but, that I should take care to give due notice to the House when I should submit a direct motion on the general subject. I never intimated to the House, and never meant, that it should be implied, that I intended to do more than move, that the statements of certain petitioners should be supported by evidence at the bar of the House.
 Mr. Villiers : The petition has not yet been presented; and I feel bound to state that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) asked me what was its prayer, and I told him, to be heard by evidence at the bar of that House. That the petitioners alleged that they are aggrieved by the Corn-laws, I do not deny; but their prayer is to be allowed to prove their individual grievances at the bar of the House. That is a very different petition from one for a total repeal of the Corn-laws.
 Mr. Colquhoun  said, the noble Lord had indulged in something like a hope that the adoption of his Bill would lead the way to a more tranquil state of things in Ireland, so that the House having disposed of this last of the three measures (as the noble Lord called it) which had so long engaged both Houses of Parliament, they would then be able to direct their attention to some other measures of a more practical nature. He thought he might venture to ask the noble Lord what was to be understood by that remark? He believed he had heard a colleague of the noble Lord say, that the Irish Church question was by no means settled on a satisfactory footing: and if he referred to the accounts of recent proceedings in Ireland, he should find, that this question of Municipal Corporations was far from being the only unsettled point. It appeared that it was one only of six questions entertained by the Precursor Society. From the declaration of that society, of which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was the leader, the House could ascertain what were those practical questions which would remain to be settled, even after the settlement of Municipal Corporations. In the first place, there was to be a complete assimilation of the suffrage to the suffrage in England, and the suffrage in England was to be extended to the furthest point possible. The next point was the ballot, for the Precursors insisted on the ballot. Then another point was
 370 371
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  wished the hon. and learned Member to state, if he could name any Irish Member who had supported the Poor-law Bill in that House, and had denounced it in Ireland.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell : Will the hon. and learned Gentleman give an answer to the question I put to him?
 Mr. Reddington  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had dealt very largely in assertion, but he would take the liberty of quoting the words of the hon. and learned Member against himself, and hoped that the House would guard themselves against taking the assertions of any hon. Member as true who had no authority for making them. He was one of those who supported the Poor-law Bill; but the hon. and learned Member for Dublin opposed it; and although that hon. and learned Gentleman had great influence in Ireland, yet he would defy the hon. and learned Member opposite to prove, that that hon. and learned Gentleman had done anything against the Poor-law in a spirit in which it ought not to be treated. With regard to the question brought forward by his hon. Friend (Mr. Grattan), he did not think, that the answer to it by the hon. and learned Member was satisfactory. He had stated, that a part of the debt was paid either by cash or some other Irish securities. He trusted the hon. and learned Member would not attempt to palm an assertion on the House as a fact, unless he was prepared to show, that he had some ground for it. With respect to the bill before the House, he begged to express his great satisfaction, that the bill of the present year so far exceeded in principle any former measure on the subject. The rights of the Irish people, and the justice of their demands, were subjects of too ordinary a character to be dwelt upon by him, but he would assure the House, that let the Legislature proceed in the fairest manner, and with the sincerest wish to give peace and contentment to Ireland, they never would see those objects realized if they attempted to persuade the Irish people to be satisfied with less than what justice awarded to them, and what it was their province to demand. It would be premature to advert to the details of the measure now; but he begged just to observe, that the borough which he represented was very unfairly dealt with in the Bill brought forward last year, and he hoped in the present measure it would find that treatment to which it was entitled.
 Lord Mahon  said, that he rose according to his notice to move, that in the trial of controverted elections, the objects of justice, uniformity, and dispatch, would be best attained by a tribunal not consisting of Members of Parliament, and when he considered the weight and authority of those from whom he differed on this question, above all, his right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth, whose abilities he so highly revered, and whose guidance upon other questions he was proud to follow: when he considered also the long parliamentary experience and constitutional knowledge of another right hon. Friend, the Member for Montgomery, then he felt ready to give way in reverential silence; but when he recollected, on the other hand, how enormous and intolerable were the present abuses, and when he reflected, that the remedies proposed played over the surface, but never reached the root of the disease; when he saw the absolute necessity of some effective remedial measure being at length adopted, and believing also, as he did, that the public feeling out of doors was in accordance with his own upon this question, then he felt not only encouraged to persevere, but inclined to hope, that the measure which he should submit, might receive the sanction of this House. In bringing this question forward he should earnestly endeavour to avoid whatever might tend to provoke political animosities or party feelings. Whatever opinion he might entertain, and he certainly did entertain a strong opinion as to the decision of particular committees, he yet on this occasion should refry in from discussing them, and he thought he should best discharge the duty he had undertaken, if he argued the motion he had to submit on general grounds alone. There was one point on which they were all agreed:—this was no party question. He trusted that was felt by every hon. Member. Each of the two great parties arrayed around him and before him had been reduced, and might be reduced again, to a small minority; each had, therefore, a strong interest to protect itself against being overwhelmed by numbers in controverted election committees; and this must be to
 380 "That the present mode of trial is not warranted by the ancient usage of Parliament is well known to every Member conversant with our history, for even at so recent a period as the Revolution, triers were particularly appointed to determine on the merit of petitions, and these triers generally consisted of the most illustrious personages of the upper House of Parliament; but gradually to give their decision a greater air of solemnity, the whole House attended, though the triers were usually guided in their opinion by the law lords." 381 "The court will have a majority of forty—a vast number for the outset; for a good majority is like a good sum of money, it soon makes itself bigger. The first great point will be the Westminster petition; another, Mr. Pulteney's election at Heydon. It will be an ugly affair for the court, for Pulteney has asked votes of the courtiers, and said, Sir Ro-
 382 Finem animæ, quæ res humanas miscuit olim, Non gladii, non saxa dabunt! "Mr. Grenville told me, that he found his health and spirits very much declined, that he had given up all thoughts of office and did not wish to take any active part in public business; and indeed, he continued, with a deep sigh, and putting his hand upon his side, I am no longer capable of serving the public. My health and spirits are gone. The only thing I have any intention of doing is, to endeavour to give some check to the abominable prostitution of the House of Commons in elections, by voting for whoever has the support of the Minister, which must end in the ruin of public liberty, if it be not checked." 383 384 385 386 387 verbatim et literatim, 388 Robert Peel 389 390 391 392 a multis ignorata a paucis cognita; 393 394 395 396 397 398 399 "Keen were his pangs, but keener far to feel His was the pinion that impelled the steel!"
 Mr. Wrightson  rose to oppose the motion of the noble Viscount. He did not mean to follow the noble Lord through the whole of the statements which he had made, but he thought, that the House should pause before they parted with the power which they possessed, and which they had so long exercised. He thought, that if the proposition which had been made were acceded to, the great moral weight which this House ought to possess with the country would cease to be maintained, for they would admit, that they who were sent there to watch over the laws, and to frame new ones, were utterly unable on their oaths, from factious and party feelings, to support their dignity, and to maintain themselves free from partiality and injustice. To accede to this motion would be to cast an indelible stigma upon their name, and he sincerly trusted, that the House would not lend its countenance to such a proceeding. The motion was doubly unnecessary after that which had been brought forward by the right hon. Baronet opposite in the last Session. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet in the belief, that errors existed in the present system which it would be difficult to remove, for the right hon. Baronet had pointed out intrinsic errors of great importance; but he entirely differed from the noble Viscount in the idea, that the plan which be had proposed was at all calculated to remedy those evils, weighty and burdensome as they were. It was undoubtedly incumbent on the House to grapple with the errors which were committed, and to endeavour to get rid of them; but there was a possibility of that being done without the removal of the jurisdiction from within those walls. The right hon. Baronet had shown how it might be done by reposing confidence in Members of that House, by selecting them in a proper manner to try the election petitions; and every one must know the difference between the feelings entertained when people were treated with confidence or otherwise. The election laws doubtless wanted consideration, in order that a series of sound precedents might be established; but still cases would occur where unhappily election committees must be appointed, and where decisions would be come to upon which evil precedents would be formed. Upon this point he could not but revert to the proposal of the hon. Member for Liskeard for the appoint-
 401
 Mr. Pemberton  would not detain the House for more than a few minutes. The question before them was, whether the defects arose from the way in which the committees were formed, or whether in their very nature they were not imperfect. In cases of election committees, every question, in every branch of law, no matter how abstruse, came under the consideration of its Members. He need but refer to a recent case, in which an hon. Gentleman was unseated by a decision involving a nice point of conveyancing. He did not know whether there were any lawyers on that Committee; he believed not; but he would ask how it was possible that a tribunal made up of men who never devoted their time to matters of law could arrive
 402 403 404 405 406
 Sir R. Peel  wished, that his noble Friend had read the whole of Mr Grenville's speech. He did not himself pretend to remember it very accurately, indeed, it was but imperfectly reported; but as far as he could venture to speak of it from memory, he thought, that Mr. Grenville, in a few sentences after the paragraph relating to triers, said, that from a very remote period, and certainly from an early period in the reign of King James, the House of Commons had determined to exercise that privilege for itself. Very eminent writers on the constitution had declared, that the power of determining who were Members of Parliament was a privilege of the House of Commons, and that it was a very important privilege; and all popular assemblies had confirmed this notion of its great importance by the singular fact that all of them, without exception, had determined, that the right of jurisdiction in all controverted elections
 407 "A power like this, so essential to the exercise of all their other powers, themselves so essential to public liberty, cannot fairly be deemed au encroachment on the part of the Commons, but must be regarded as an inherent privilege, happily rescued from the ambiguity which the neglect of some former Parliaments had thrown upon it." 408 409 410 411 412 Laughter 413 414
 Mr. Bernal  had little to say on the present occasion, but felt, that he should be wanting in duty to himself if he did not express his opinion on the subject before the House. He considered that his noble Friend deserved great credit for the manner in which he had brought the subject forward, and expressed his opinion on it, and he did not think that the ridicule that fell from the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last was any argument against the main part of his noble Friend's speech. He could not forget, that if they changed the mode of constituting the present tribunal, they would not change the component parts of it, nor the elements of which it was formed. He would ask, whether an oath was still deemed necessary? Did the right hon. Baronet propose to get rid of the oath to be taken by the members of the tribunal? Was it still to be said that in the minds of six hundred and fifty-eight gentlemen an oath was not regarded as something binding? Would the reduction of the number of the Members of the tribunal secure more regard to this sanction? Would they, by reducing the number, increase the feeling of the obligation of the oath in the minds of those who took it? If they did not get rid of the difficulty about the oath, it would be of minor importance whether or not they reduced the number of the members of the tribunal. He did not agree with the opinion expressed on the other side of the House, that all the difficulties on this subject had arisen since the passing of the Reform Act. He denied that this was the case, for he had been long enough in that House—now nearly eighteen years—to recollect many similar complaints of a similar kind to those now made, and where the same doubts were stated and the same objections urged against the constitution of the tribunal. He recollected that soon after he came into Parliament he acted as nominee on an election committee, and on that occasion, in consequence of a decision which the committee came to with regard to frivolous costs, the late Mr. Tierney thought it to be his duty to get up in his place in Parliament and call the attention of the House to the subject. So striking were the anomalies of
 415 416 R. Peel R Peel: usque ad nauseam 417
 Mr. Williams Wynn  agreed most entirely with the hon. Gentleman opposite, when he stated that they were beginning at the wrong end. He did believe, that it was the first duty of the House of Commons, if it wished to improve the present manner of deciding questions arising out of contested elections, to look through the law of elections as it stood on the statute book, and at once to decide the disputed points. He wished, more than any thing, that out of their discussions that evening some plan should originate. During the period that the Reform Bill was in agitation, he had proposed to the then Chancellor of the Exchequer, Lord Althorp, to separate those parts of the measure which related to the formation of new constitutions of the elective bodies from those which related to registration of votes, and to bring in the latter, as a separate measure, at a later period; because that was a part of the plan which could not properly be investigated by the House in the existing state of parties, but which might have been advantageously referred to a committee up stairs; and he had always regretted that this course had not been fol-
 418 419 "In this House committees were constantly chosen to examine into elections; and in 1672,
 420 421
 Sir R. Inglis  concurred in the principle of the proposed bill. He thought, that the existing system was bad, and ought to be amended. He submitted to his right hon. Friend, that his own preamble might be applied to his own bill. It was not necessary for them to state, that they were essentially corrupt; but it would be necessary for them to state, for the purposes of the bill of the noble Lord, that they had always acted corruptly, or at least in a majority of cases; unless that were the case, there would be no necessity for his bill. Unless the House was prepared to make some alterations, whether they had the bill of his right hon. Friend or of his noble Friend, it mattered little. He was glad that his hon. Friend, the Chairman of the Ways and Means (Mr. Bernal), had thrown out a suggestion in this Session, to which he had begged to call the attention of the House in the last. He was not afraid of any decision that the judges appointed might come to. He believed they might trust to their jurisdiction their lives, their honour, and their property—that property on which depended their political influence. If they could trust the decision of the judges of England in the case of that property, why not trust to them in the decision of cases connected with the exercise of the power which that property gave them. There were several considerations which particularly recommended such a tribunal more than any other. He was certain that some change must take place. Even his right hon. Friend, the Member for Montgomeryshire, was satisfied that there must be some change. There were also other considerations, which had weight in relation to the appointment of the judges as the legal tribunal for the trial of controverted elections. They possessed a knowledge of the law, which could never be supposed to be found in any inferior members of the profession. He would ask, if it could be gravely stated, that the election tribunals, as now existing, were distinguished for their knowledge of the law
 422
 Lord John Russell  thought the course which had been taken by the hon. Gentleman opposite rather a singular one. The hon. Gentleman did not say to the noble Lord who brought forward the proposition, "This is a proposition which I am ready to support and to recommend to the House: I do not say there may not be better plans, but let us hasten to shake all confidence in the present tribunal; let us tell the country that no justice is to be got from an election committee; and let us not care about leaving it in doubt when or how we are to get a better system." Until something better was tried of the existing materials, he did not believe that that was a course which the House ought
 423 424 425 426 Stanley 427
 Mr. Kelly  said, this was a subject in
 428 429 430 431
 Lord Mahon  replied—As to the historical controversy which had arisen between him and his right hon. Friends, (Sir R. Peel and Mr. Wynn) he begged to remind the House that he had never denied, that the privilege of trying controverted elections had been vested in this House, in the reigns of Elizabeth and James the first. His argument was, that their predecessors had not always shown the watchfulness and jealousy for which his right hon. Friend had formerly praised them, and that the privilege had not continued uninterrupted from those times to the present. He believed, on the authority of Mr. Grenville, that at the Restoration amidst the loose ideas of constitutional rights which then prevailed, the Commons had allowed the Lords to take some share in the jurisdiction of election petitions. It is further stated by Mr. Grenville, in his speech of March 7th, 1770, that in 1672 the Lord Chancellor had openly claimed the right of determining controverted elections, upon which the House of Commons were moved to reassert their ancient privilege. His argument was merely against the unbroken succession claimed for the present jurisdiction by its supporters as one ground for retaining it. His right hon. Friend, the Member for Montgomery, had advised him to withdraw his resolution and bring in his bill. But he thought it would be only a waste of the
 432
 Mr. Fox Maule , in moving for leave to bring in a bill to regulate the employment of children and young persons in factories, said, he thought it would be better at that late hour (past twelve) to defer an explanation of its provisions till the second reading.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, the Government were not prepared to alter the provisions of the existing Act as to the hours of labour or the ages of the children. But they did intend to give additional powers to the inspectors and sub-inspectors, believing that such additional powers were necessary to carry the Act into execution. Into a detail of the means by which this object was to be effected, it would be best, perhaps, to enter on the second reading.
 Lord J. Russell : With regard to the question put to me the other
 356
 Lord J. Russell  said it seemed hardly necessary that he should address the House upon the subject of Irish Municipal Corporations when there appeared to be no disposition to oppose the motion of his noble Friend; but as the subject of elections under the Poor-law Bill had been so much adverted to, he thought it necessary to say one word with respect to what had transpired at Limerick. It certainly appeared that in the election of guardians of the poor in that city, both parties made it in a great degree a political struggle, and the result was considered a great political triumph by the successful party. But in another town, in which an election for similar purposes had taken place, it appeared that the officers were elected about equally from each party; and that all the different religious sects into which the town was divided were fairly represented in the board of guardians. He thought this was an example much more likely to be followed generally throughout Ireland than the example afforded by the city of Limerick. It was much to be regretted that the electors in any town or city should employ the new powers given to them under bills of this description merely for political purposes; but with the exception of the instances to which reference had been made, he thought there was not a
 373
 Lord John Russell : The right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) has no doubt stated correctly, the impression on his mind from the conversation on Tuesday; but a totally different impression was certainly left on my mind. I understood the right hon. Baronet to refer to an answer which I had given to another hon. Gentleman, in which I stated, that there were grounds of precedent and others for opposing a motion, that evidence be received at the bar, but that I would not give any pledge as to the course to be taken in this respect, and then to ask me whether on that day, I was prepared to state the course I meant to pursue with regard to the hon. Gentleman's motion. I replied, that I could not give an answer then, but that I should be prepared to do so to-day. Now if I were about to propose an Amendment, or to take a course different from that of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, otherwise than by giving a simple affirmative or negative to his
 359
 Lord J. Russell : As the hon. Gentleman has now stated what his motion really is, and as it only refers to an inquiry to be made into the operation of certain laws, I don't think it would be fair to the hon. Gentleman, or respectful to the motion which he intends to submit, if I were to make any declaration on the part of the Government before it comes on.
 Mr. Hindley  wished for some brief explanation, if only five minutes—of the objects of the bill. Did the Government mean to alter the hours of the factory children's labour? Did they intend to strengthen the hands of the inspectors and sub-inspectors?
 Mr. C. Wood : My answer to this question is precisely the same as that which I gave to the first which was put—namely, that the publication has taken place without the authority or knowledge of the board. Captain Hardy is now in this country, and the first intimation I received of this production, as of the other, was, when a printed copy was put into my hands by the author.
 Mr. C. Wood : I conceive that the question which has been put to me by the hon. and gallant Gentleman refers, not to a letter, but to the supplemental chapter of Sir J. Barrow's Life of Lord Anson. If so, I cannot imagine how any person who has read the preface to that work can put such a question to me as that which the hon. and gallant Gentleman has asked. Sir J. Barrow states, that book was published, not only without the authority of the Board of Admiralty, but without the knowledge of any member of the Board. I can distinctly confirm that statement, not only for myself, but for every member of the Board. I had no idea what were to be the contents of it until Sir J. Barrow put the printed book into my hands. I have no hesitation in saying, that many of the opinions there expressed by Sir J. Barrow are not approved of by the Admiralty. It may be convenient, that I should take this opportunity of stating, that as to the facts contained in that work, on looking at them, I perceive that they are such as may be collected from documents printed in this and other countries; and though there may be inaccuracies in some parts, the facts in the main are substantially correct.
 Mr. Litton : I again assert distinctly, that the original debt which the hon. Gentleman stated had not been paid, has been paid.
 Mr. Litton : I certainly can name, if it be necessary. I have not the slightest objection to do so.
 Mr. Litton  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down was wholly unacquainted with the facts of the matter which he had brought under the consideration of the House. He (Mr. Litton) did know something of them; and the matter stood thus:—At one period there was a decree pronounced by the Master of the Rolls in Ireland, which had been affirmed by the House of Lords, for the sum of which the hon. and learned Gentleman had spoken, or some such sum; but if he had gone a little further for information, he would have found that all the debentures on which that sum was found to be due had been paid to the public, and that not one shilling of that which the corporation had been found to be indebted to the public, was now due. He (Mr. Litton) had frequently heard from the other side, statements made without consideration or accurate information; and he was happy to be in the House to contradict the statement made on the present occasion, and to affirm, as would appear by a reference to the records of the Rolls' Court, that on a motion for a sequestration against the corporation, time had been given by the Master of the Rolls to enable the corporation to obtain funds, and that when that motion was renewed, the answer given was, "that the money had all been paid off, except a few thousands; and that, since, the debt had been altogether redeemed." He should not have risen in this debate, if he had not felt called upon by a distinct recollection of the facts he had stated to negative, in the most distinct terms, the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman. On the question before the House, there had been such an abundance of discussion, that he would not protract it; but this much he must assert, that to those who opposed the proposed substitution for the old corporations, was not attributable that want of
 377
 Mr. Litton  repeated, that cash had been paid, and other securities had been substituted for the originals, and, that the creditors of five years ago did not exist.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he would not offer any objection to the introduction of the measure proposed by the noble Lord, nor would he go into the statements which the noble Lord had made at any great length. The principal difference betwixt the measure of former Sessions and that which it was now proposed to introduce related to the franchise, and to the alteration which the noble Lord proposed in reference to that part of the measure he felt the strongest objections. The noble Lord seemed to expect, that the plan he now proposed would afford a better constituency, and that the elections would be conducted with less of party spirit. But he begged to refer the noble Lord to what took place at Limerick at the election of guardians under the New Poor-law as a specimen of what was to be expected under the Municipal Bill. It had been hoped, that the spirit with which that measure was discussed in Parliament would have had the effect of softening
 365 366
 Mr. Barron  supported the proposition which had that night been brought forward by the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland. Notwithstanding what had been stated by the right hon. the Recorder of Dublin, he (Mr. Barron) must observe, that during the last 50 years there had not been a single Roman Catholic elected into the corporation of the city of Dublin, and was not that fact, he begged to ask, sufficient to provoke a natural retaliation? Was it to be supposed that the Roman Catholics
 374 375
 Mr. H. Grattan  did not rise to prolong the present discussion, but to put a question; the answer to which, from the right lion, the Recorder of Dublin, might render it unnecessary for him to move an Amendment he had prepared to the motion of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland. The question referred to a corporation of which he and the right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite were both members, and which, though it had been said to be dead, was, he could assure the House, alive and active—he alluded to the corporation of the city of Dublin. It might be in the recollection of the House, that during the administration of the Marquess Wellesley, certain persons, himself among the rest, had been enabled to proceed by law against that corporation, and to recover from it a sum of about 78,000 l l 376
 Mr. H. Grattan  said, new debentures had been given for the old debentures, and that the money had not been actually paid.
 Mr. Leader  presented a petition from Louis H. La Fontaine and Charles Mondelet, two advocates practising at the bar in Montreal. They stated, that they derived their sole subsistence from the exercise of their profession—that amongst the sacred rights granted them by this country, personal liberty was the one which they most valued—that in consequence of some late acts they were afraid that right was to be altogether taken from them, in consequence of the flagrant abuse of power to which they had been subjected—that they, with several other persons, were forcibly torn from their families on the 4th of November last, by persons calling themselves the agents of Government, and dragged to prison by her Majesty's troops, without any warrant, without any accusation against them, and, as they believed, with the knowledge or by the orders of Sir John Colborne; they stated further, that it was publicly believed, that a carte blanche had been given to many persons, to denounce as traitors any of her Majesty's subjects in the colony, thus furnishing to enmity an opportunity of wreaking its revengeful feelings on the liberty of the subject—that having been thus arrested they were de-
 354 Hon. Member:
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  cordially and entirely concurred in the hope expressed by the noble Lord, that the elections of guardians of the poor in Ireland would not exhibit in future anything like party spirit. He did not wish to prolong the debate on the question now before the House, but he rose merely to say one word on the fact which was in controversy on both sides. The hon. Member for Limerick had said, that all Roman Catholics had there been elected on the board of guardians. He (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) was afraid that would not be found to be the fact. At the election in the poorest parish of the city of Limerick, namely, St. John's parish, the chair was filled by the Rev. Mr. Fitzgibbon, and therefore the hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that the Roman Catholic clergy had not interfered in the matter.
 Mr. Wyse  said, he could confirm the statement of his hon. Friend as to there being no desire to exclude Protestants, but, at the same time, the result of the election at Limerick was not to be won-
 368 369
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  could not concur in the objections which had been raised by the hon. Member who had just sat down, against the election which had just taken place in Limerick. There was undoubtedly a greater proportion of Roman Catholics than of Protestants chosen at that election, but, having had an opportunity of personally observing the elections throughout Limerick, he did not think it possible to point out an objectionable choice. As large a proportion of Protestants had been chosen as, probably, their state of property and other circumstances admitted of. He saw the list for Limerick, and he did not believe there was a single Roman Catholic on that list, and underneath the list was written, "Vote for the friends of the poor."
 Mr. William Roche  said, he felt it behoved him as representative for the city of Limerick to make a few remarks on the topic which the right hon. the Recorder of Dublin adverted to, and animadverted upon, in reference to the preponderating number of Roman Catholics appearing on the Limerick list of guardians lately appointed for the administration of the Poor-law in that city. He first begged to observe, that a public meeting had been previously held, at which he had the honour to preside, and where he trusted he acted with impartiality and he believed with satisfaction to all parties. It was called with a view to select and suggest a number of names out of which it was recommended to the constituency to make choice, but which, of course, could only amount to a recommendation, yet might tend to facilitate the election. Nor was he aware, that Catholic clerical influence had the slightest operation there or exercised even the slightest interference. In the rural districts he did believe the poorer rate-payers consulted their clergy ignorant as they, (the poorer rate-payers) necessarily were, of the nature and results of this
 367
 Sir E. Codrington  said, seeing the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty in his place,
 355
 Sir E. Knatchbull : I can't even guess what the noble Lord means to propose. I apprehend, that I must labour under a mistake as to the conversation of Tuesday night; but I understood the noble Lord distinctly to promise, that he would state to-night the course which he meant to take, and I did believe, that on this night he would have redeemed his pledge.
 Sir E. Knatchbull : The course now adopted by the noble Lord, is one which, as regards the House and the public, and particularly as regards the persons directly interested in this question, is decidedly unfair. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Villiers) gave notice on the first day of the Session, that he would make a specific motion in the House. The notice was printed with the votes of the House for some days, and for aught we knew, the discussion would have come on in that form, if it had not been for the question, which my right hon. Friend (Sir Robert Peel) put to the noble Lord the other evening. I don't think the noble Lord has been treated fairly; but I am also of opinion that the noble Lord has not now treated the House and the country fairly by refusing to declare the course which he
 357
 Sir R. Inglis  said, he should not have risen upon this occasion at all, had it not been said, that the noble Lord opposite was pledged to the extinction and de-
 372
 Sir R. Peel : I confess there is no ground of complaint against the hon. Gentleman for having done what was not fair. The hon. Gentleman most certainly gave notice, that he should present certain petitions, and that he should afterwards move to have them supported by evidence. These petitions, it appeared, prayed for a total repeal of the Corn-laws, and the hon. Gentleman proposed on Tuesday to summon evidence to the bar in support of the
 358
 Mr. Wynn  said, that in conformity with the notice he had given, he rose to move, that a new writ be issued for the borough of Southwark, in the room of Daniel Whittle Harvey, esq. He felt the less difficulty in submitting this motion to the House, because he trusted, that it would be in no respect considered a party question, but would be regarded, like the motion discussed last night, as one in which the whole House was equally interested in coming to a conclusion, It had been suggested, that he had better move the appointment of a Committee to consider the subject, but he did not know why that should be a preferable course, because the opinion of a Committee could not be binding on the House. Besides, it was desirable, that no more delay than was absolutely necessary should occur in the case. The hon. Member (Mr. Harvey) was sitting opposite, and he had put himself in an awkward situation, if it should be declared, that his appointment came under the Act of Queen Anne, for, in that case, he was liable to a penalty of 500 l 447 l 448 449 l 450 "There shall be charged upon, and in respect of, every license to be granted under the authority of this Act, as hereinafter provided, a duty of five shillings, and that the same shall be under the care and management of the Commissioners of Stamps and Taxes, and shall be denominated and deemed to be a stamp duty, and shall be raised, levied, paid, secured, and accounted for, under the provisions of any act or acts in force, or to be in force, for raising, levying, or securing the stamp duties, or any of them; and it shall be lawful for the said Commissioners, and they are hereby required, upon application for that purpose made by the person who for the time being shall be the registrar of metropolitan public carriages, duly appointed under the provisions herein-after contained, to issue to such person vellum, parchment, or paper for such licenses, duly stamped, for denoting the duties charged by this Act, either upon the present payment of the duties payable on such licenses, or upon giving such security for the payment thereof, and upon such terms and subject to such regulations as the said Commissioners shall think proper." 451 452 sub silentio
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the rule of the House was, that a Member should withdraw, when any question was about to be discussed touching his seat he having been first heard.
 Mr. Pryme  mentioned an instance when a question respecting his own seat was agitated, in which that rule was acted upon.
 Mr. Cresswell  thought it desirable to mention to the noble Lord a circumstance relating to this measure, which had recently come to his knowledge. He found that the registrar did not register births and deaths from his own personal knowledge of the facts, but from information given to him either by the parents of the children born, or by the owners or occupiers of the house in which the births or the death might be alleged to have taken place; and that information was often sent to him in writing by a servant. Now it was quite obvious that the registrar must be liable to be imposed upon, and it had already been discovered that frauds had been practised. In some instances most important and serious consequences might arise from representations being made of the birth of a child which might be altogether factitious; and yet it might be exceedingly difficult, after entries had been made in the register, to trace out the parties committing frauds of that description. In Manchester it had been found that persons had represented children to be dead for the purpose of cheating money-clubs, and one or two prosecutions had already taken place for such offences.
 Lord J. Russell  was aware that frauds of the description mentioned by the hon. and learned Gentleman had been committed. In the cases which had been reported to him he had directed prosecutions to be instituted. He hardly knew how any other remedy than that of prosecuting cases where the law had been violated could be devised to meet the mischief complained of.
 Mr. Goulburn  did not think it proper, in the present thin state of the House, to enter into a discussion upon this subject, which he should feel it absolutely neces-
 469 s d
 Mr. Gibson  regretted, that he could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman in the opinion that this was a dangerous innovation upon the proceedings of courts of justice; because Quakers, Moravians, and Separaists, had for many years been exempted from taking oaths, and the principle of the present measure was recognised by the bill which was passed last Session in favour of those persons who had seceded from any one of those denominations of Christians. Having extended the benefit of the exemption to them, they were bound, in common consistency, to extend it to the rest of the community. He could not understand why persons who had seceded from the Quakers, Moravians, and Separatists, should be put in a more favourable position than the rest of the community, except the sects from which they had seceded. Nay, they were put in a more favourable position than many who belonged to the Established Church. He thought, this was a very strange way of supporting the Church. It was offering a bonus to dissent, because they were limiting the field in which the members of
 470 s d
 Mr. Law , on this occasion, should pursue the same course as that adopted by his right hon. Friend, and not enter at any length into the question. He must, however, complain of the Bill as being not so much an innovation on the proceedings of our courts of justice, as an extension of a principle which had already been introduced in those proceedings, and which had been most mischievous in its effects in the administration of justice generally. All those who had been in the habit of attending courts of justice, must have observed with what extreme jealousy juries regarded the evidence of persons who claimed to be exempted from taking an oath. It often happened that jurymen would interrupt the Court, when summing up the evidence, with the observation—"My lord, I believe that witness has not been sworn." He was convinced, if there was a case in which six witnesses should be examined who declared that they entertained conscientious scruples respecting taking oaths, and therefore were allowed to give their testimony upon a
 471
 Mr. Pryme  thought, that a jury would receive the testimony of persons who gave their evidence under a solemn declaration before the Deity that they would speak the truth, with quite as much confidence as they would the testimony of men who went through the form of an oath in the hurried and irreverent manlier in which oaths were sometimes administered in courts of justice.
 The Lord-Advocate , having already expressed his views upon this question, and having an opportunity of speaking in Committee, would not at that stage trouble the House with a new statement.
 Mr. Edward Ellice, jun ., (St. Andrews) was one of those who thought that the judges were not sufficiently paid in Scotland. He was prepared, therefore, to vote for an increase of their salaries, and that they should retire, on their full salaries, after a certain period; but, after what he stated the other night, he could not vote for the present motion without receiving an assurance from the Lord Advocate that there should be a reduction in the number of judges, that the courts should be rendered efficient, and that all necessary improvements should take place in the system. He had come down to that House to vote for the motion, expecting the necessary information and pledges to be given; that information and those pledges had not been afforded, and he would now vote for the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman. He wished also to take that opportunity of stating, with reference to what had fallen from him the other night, that he was desirous of expressing his regret that he had used a phrase unintentionally, and which was not warranted by the circumstances. He deeply regretted that he had given pain to some who were present, and probably to others whom it had by this time reached. He hoped that the House would give him credit for not intentionally using a phrase that would give pain to any one; he assured them that it fell from him in the hurry of a debate. The learned Lord, however, to whom he had referred, was 80 years of age, and had been subject for some years to an utter prostration of strength. He had read somewhere in history, which accorded with his views, and which, with the permission of the House, he would give as his own.
 "A time, too, would, sooner or later, come when these judges would begin to suffer under
 478
 Mr. Aglionby  had read carefully the evdience which had been given, and after he had heard the statements of the hon. Members who had moved and seconded the present Amendment, he had come to a conclusion, that they ought to give an increase in the salaries of the judges in Scotland. The evidence which had been taken before the Committee clearly showed the salaries of the judges to be insufficient, for several of the witnesses examined had distinctly stated, that in consequence of the inadequate remuneration, many barristers of standing, to whom, only of course, such situations would be offered, had refused to accept seats on the judicial bench. The opinions expressed by the witnesses were, in many instances, extremely strong, and the inference drawn by some of them was, that the public were deprived of the full benefit of the assistance of those members of the bar who had reached the top of their profession, in consequence of the attraction presented to them being insufficient to tempt them to enter upon the laborious duties which they would have to perform. He quite agreed with the opinion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that it was the worst economy to employ inferior talent, and to pay the jndges inadequately. It was not satisfactory to the country or the suitors in the courts, that such a course should be pursued, at least in the administration of justice, and he begged to ask, whether the salaries which were paid to the Scottish judges were sufficient to avoid the possi-
 479
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  never felt more surprised in his life than that that hon. Gentlemen should complain of a
 496
 Sir Thomas Acland  believed, that a very valuable end was intended to be arrived at by this Commission. He could not for a moment suffer himself to believe they could have any other end than that of improving the Church to which they belonged—of rendering that institution more effective—preserving its efficiency, and not impairing it. He acknowledged that he looked to the Bill with great anxiety. When authorities were quoted on the subject, be must take the liberty to remind the House that though the Members of the Church belonging to that commission had
 497
 Mr. Pemberton  was sorry that neither the Attorney-General nor the Solicitor-General were present, as they would have been better able than he could be to inform the House as to the subject of these returns. He would only observe, that the returns moved for by the Solicitor-General in 1836 were returns of the Bills, but not the answers; and he must say he could not discover the probability of the usefulness of the answers, while to make them out would cause great labour on the part of the officers of the courts, and be attended with very considerable expense. But he rose principally to inquire of the noble Lord whether the Government had it in contemplation to lay before the House in the course of the present Session any measure for the improvement of the administration of justice in the courts of Chancery and higher tribunals of the country. With respect to the state of business in the courts of Chancery, he believed that, except on one occasion, when, owing to the absence from illness, of one of the judges, his court was wholly shut up, there never was a larger amount of arrears in those courts than at present. He believed there were, at that moment, not less than 700 causes set down for hearing. He believed that during the last term not one single case, standing on what is called the general paper, in the Vice Chancellor's court, came on to be heard. The number of causes on the general paper in the Rolls Court, disposed of during the same period, was one and-a-half. Was this owing to the noble Judge who presided in that court? He felt the utmost confidence that it was not. No man could exhibit greater assiduity in the discharge of his duties; no man could more completely confine himself to doing that which he thinks is substantial justice, than his noble Friend. It remained to be asked, then, what was the remedy? The remedies hitherto tried had turned out anything but remedies. It would be in the recollection of many hon. Members present, with what a loud obloquy it was
 501 502
 The Speaker  said, it was always advisable not to differ from the usages of Parliament. The objection which occurred to him to the moving of the hon. Gentleman's motion was this—the hon. Member proposed to send forth, under the sanction of the House, those precedents as he had explained the matter. He had not the least doubt, that every one of these precedents was to he found on the journals according to the statements of the hon. Member, but it did not follow, that there were no others. The usual course had been to appoint a Committee to take the proper means of proceeding, and then they came forward with more sanction of authority than they otherwise could do. When the thing was set forth under the sanction of the House, the greatest care should be taken, that it was as accurate as possible, and the usual course had been to appoint a Committee.
 Mr. F. Baring  was understood not to object to the production of the return of the revenues, but to object to the granting the other information sought by the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in January 1838, he had stated in that House, that the in-
 507
 Mr. F. Baring  was understood to say, that he was not prepared to account for the delay, but it must have been occasioned by great carelessness somewhere.
 Mr. Hume : Yes, so it appears, gross carelessness somewhere. He would merely renew his motion for the production of the Address.
 Viscount Duncannon  had heard with great satisfaction what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, and could not help hoping that the most determined opposition would be given to the Bill. He agreed in thinking that its introduction at this late hour of the night was not in accordance with the extreme importance of the Bill and the interests involved in it. It might be well intended, by its promoters, but he was fully alive to its consequences, and believed it to be not only dangerous to the Church Establishment, but to the dearest of the community as Englishmen and as Christians. He hoped the right hon. Baronet who occupied the proudest station to which an English Gentleman could aspire—the representation of one of our Universities—would adhere to his resolution of opposing the Bill in every stage. The right hon. Baronet would find in him a humble but most energetic follower, and he hoped the division would be such as to afford to the country a striking example that there did yet exist a strong attachment to that Established Church, by whose blessed influence this country had arrived at a pinnacle of unrivalled greatness.
 Lord J. Russell  certainly had no conception, till about a quarter of an hour before, that there was to be any question to arise with respect to the court of Chancery that evening, because, certainly if he had thought so, if his hon. and learned had bean present, he should have taken pains to inform himself more particularly as to the exact state of the question. It had been frequently a matter of deliberation and consideration what steps should be taken, and when they should be taken, with respect to the court of Chancery. But, as the hon. and learned Gentleman had said, there had been a measure mooted by the Lord Chancellor, which, as he said, had entirely failed in the House of Lords, and failed because there was a total difference of opinion amongst those who were aware what the evil was, as to what should be the proper remedy for that evil. He remembered when this subject had been under consideration, at the time when the present Lord Chancellor had been appointed, he was anxious to learn, as he was sure all the Members of the Government were, what were the measures which would be most satisfactory in the profession, and the hon. and learned Gentleman and himself had conferred as to those measures of reform which would be useful; but when, after that consideration of the various opinions and suggestions of learned persons in the profession, the Lord Chancellor had proposed a bill founded upon the best opinion which he and those who acted with him could give on this subject, it was found that there was the widest difference of opinion; and be believed the Lord Chancellor proposed a measure which the hon. and learned Gentleman would call a half measure on this subject, which certainly went to remedy certain evils in the Court of Chancery, going to diminish the number of appeals; because, if he recollected aright, one of the provisions was, a party might appeal to either the Lord Chancellor or the House of Lords, but having done so, he was not afterwards to be at liberty to
 503 504 Pemberton Blewitt 505
 Lord J. Russell  said, that, with respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for North Devonshire, he had no doubt, that the hon. Member was very sincere in the opinions which he bad expressed upon the measures proposed to be carried into effect by this bill. On a future occasion he should certainly be prepared to meet the objections of the hon. Member. He should show, that the measure had solely in view to increase the efficiency of the Established Church. With respect to the allusion made by the hon. Member to the chapters of the cathedrals, he would only observe, that the members of those bodies were naturally, and by the inevitable prejudices of their situation, led to consider the chapter to which they belonged as one of the most invaluable parts of the ecclesiastical institution. As he had said, the extension of religious instruction was the object of this bill; and it was proposed to effect it by means of the establishment of additional churches, and the appointment of additional ministers to serve in those churches. But on these points he should have to address the House more in detail on a future occasion, when he would maintain, that whatever ends the chapters of cathedrals might have been intended to fulfil as originally instituted, there was no source from which they could look to find means for materially increasing the efficiency of the Established Church except those chapters; nor were there any other means which had received the assent of the
 499
 Lord J. Russell  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to carry into effect with certain modifications the Fourth Report of the Commissioners of Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues. The Bill was nearly the same as that introduced by him last year, which had been
 495
 Mr. Harvey  said, against the motion placed in the hands of the Speaker, "that a new writ issue for the borough of Southwark," he had nothing to say. On the contrary he was perfectly prepared to second any motion by which the Members of that House should be often obliged to
 453 454 455 456 457 l l 458 459 l 460 461 462 463 464
 Sir G. Sinclair  rose to tender his acknowledgement to her Majesty's Ministers, with whom he had seldom had the good fortune to agree, for the measure which they had just proposed, and which he could assure them would create great satisfaction throughout Scotland, a satisfaction, however, which he felt was not without some alloy; for he had hoped that his learned Friend would have announced that he intended to ground his motion, and determine the amount of the increase to be granted to the Scotch judges, on the terms of the report of the Committeee of 1834, of which he had enjoyed the honour of being chairman, and of which the third resolution was, that the sum of 1,000 l l 487 l l 488
 Sir G. Sinclair  wished to state, as the evidence of Lord Jeffrey had been alluded to—that Lord Jeffrey, at the time of giving it, was considerably biassed by the prospect of coming to the bench—Lord Jeffrey gave his evidence with such a degree of bias, and with such delicacy, as might have been expected from a man possessed of a discriminating mind and refined feeling. He would take this opportunity also of saying, that looking to the knowledge and legal science displayed by Lord Jeffrey since he had been called on to occupy a situation on the bench of the Court of Session, he did not believe there ever had been a judge who had given more general satisfaction.
 The Speaker  had no doubt that when any question was discussed involving the conduct of a Member of the House, the rule of the House was as it had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Montgomeryshire, but he was not aware, that such was the rule when his seat was affected, no such case having occurred, since he had been placed in the Chair of that House. But the precedent mentioned by the hon. Member for Cambridge was in point.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that he had been most willing and most desirous on the one hand to submit the propositions, which he intended to make, to the consideration of the House before the question came on for discussion; and on the other, to enter into a statement of his views before the House went into Committee; but upon his making inquiry upon the subject, he had been assured by those who were best acquainted with the forms of the House, that his doing so would be inconsistent with the course usually pursued. Having been assured, that the rule was one from which there could not be any deviation, he thought it rather hard that it should be made a matter of complaint against him, that he had not laid those matters before the House, when he had been most anxious to do so. He was not desirous now of stating more than his general views upon the subject under discussion, and he was not anxious that those opinions which he professed should be finally adopted by either side of the House, and he should therefore propose nothing more than a general resolution; but at the same time he felt bound to state such circumstances as would satisfy hon. Members, that they were proceeding on safe ground in acceding to that resolution. He must first express his utter astonishment at the statement made by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that there had been no reduction in the judicial establishment; and also at the allegation of another hon. Gentleman, that a disposition existed to adhere to antiquated forms. As to the first point, he must say, that no ground whatever existed for the statement. There had been a great reduction in the number of judges. The five judges of the Court of Exchequer had been removed, and their duties were performed by a judge of the Court of Session, with a salary of only 600 l 483 l l l l l 484 485
 The Lord Advocate  then moved a second resolution:—"That it is the opinion of this committee, that provision should be made by law to allow her Majesty to in-
 486
 Mr. Hume  thought it very singular that his hon. Friend the Member for Caithness should not he aware that he had advanced in his speech the very strongest argument against his own recommendation. His hon. Friend had stated, that every Gen-
 489 490 Lord Advocate
 Mr. Hume , in seconding the motion, said that the House ought to have had before them the reasons for the increase to induce them to agree to the resolution. The question now came before the House in a very extraordinary manner; they were called upon to make a grant of money without knowing the reason. They ought to have been stated, and the right hon. Gentleman had not stated them. He agreed in the opinion that they ought to have good judges, and that they ought to be adequately paid. The want of an adequate payment for judges he thought a great evil; it was the worst possible economy, but the question he would put was whether the country had experienced any inconvenience from the low salaries of these judges? He would answer no, so far as the evidence he had read and heard proved, and he was, therefore, unwilling to agree to any increase. Sir William Rae had been Lord Advocate for fifteen years, and when he was asked whether he recollected any instances of the judgeships being refused on account of the low salaries, he answered, "Yes; one or two;" but these two cases might be put under the principle so well laid down by Sir Robert Peel in his evidence, that they ought not to be taken as a standard of the highest income which any gentleman at the bar might acquire, but the average of the good lawyers. On that ground, therefore, he would not consent to increase the burdens of the country. Another objection which he entertained, was the existence of great abuses and of antiquated forms in these courts, and further that the judges did not work as the judges in England did. They had seen that the court sat only 105 days in the year, and that on an average their time of sitting each day did not amount to two
 476 l l l l l l l l l l l 477
 Mr. Hume  said, the Gentlemen opposite appeared to him to take a most extraordinary course, and it only showed the noble Lord, that if he gave the minimum of reform, he would get the maximum of abuse. If the noble Lord were to propose extensive and efficient reforms, he might, then, perhaps, give hon. Gentlemen opposite just grounds for complaint. The necessity of having an efficient Church was so frequently admitted, that he was surprised that any measure of the sort should be quarrelled with. If the bill to be introduced this Session were to be similar to that introduced last Session, it would go to put an end to a certain number of sinecures. The public money, which was granted with a view to promote religious instruction, was scandalously wasted. The object of the present bill, he believed, was not to take away that money. He wished it was—he would take the money away and apply it to other purposes. But when the Government proposed to apply the money in a proper mode, hon. Gentlemen opposite came down and stated they would object to that, because forsooth it was interfering with the Establishment! Why, it was the duty of Parliament to dispose of the public funds to the greatest possible advantage. On a former occasion he had objected to the bill introduced by the noble Lord, because he did not go far enough, and he told the noble Lord, that he might as well be abused for going the whole way as for only going half way.
 498
 Mr. Hume  had no objection to this resolution, which went only to provide for the retiring allowances of the judges, and not to increase their salaries.
 Mr. Blewitt  then rose to move for "Returns of the number of bills filed in her Majesty's High Court of Chancery in the years 1835, 1836, 1837, and 1831; of the number of answers filed in the several years of 1750 to 1754, inclusive; also, for the several years 1760 to 1764, inclusive; also, for the several years 1770 to 1774, inclusive; also, for the several years 1780 to 1784, inclusive; also, for the several years 1800 to 1804, inclusive; also for the year 1808, and each succeeding year to the 31st day of December, 1838; also, of the total number of folios contained in the bills, and of the total number of folios contained in the answers filed in each of the years above specified. From the said Court, of the number of causes, exceptions, and further directions, pleas, and demurrers set down to be heard in and for the years 1836, 1837, and 1838, and the number of decrees and orders made on the hearing of the same, of the number of causes, exceptions, further directions, pleas, and demurrers ready for hearing on the first day of each term, and also at the close of the sittings after each term, in each of the above years, of the number of re hearings, and appeals before the Lord Chancellor set down in each of the same years, and standing for hearing on the first day of each term, and also on the last day of the sittings after each term, in each of the above years, specifying when the first five of such re hearings and appeals (except such as appear to have been called on and adjourned), had been set down at each of such times, Of the number of cause
 500
 Mr. Blewitt  said, that the three years before the appointment of the Vice-Chancellor the average number of causes amounted to 540; in the years 1834 and 1835 they amounted to 1,300.
 Mr. Wallace  said, that if the House had granted him a Committee the other night, he would have proved that one hour and a-half a-day was the full time occupied by the Court of Session in deciding cases. The learned Lord had misled the House by saying, that the duties of Lords Ordinary were the duties of the Court of Session. When the proper time came, he would show that the ditties of the Lords Ordinary should be separated from those of the Lords of Session; and he would also move, that it was expedient to have fewer judges in Scotland. So far from an increase of salary being agreeable to the people of Scotland, he was convinced that almost the whole people of Scotland, properly so called, would condole with the Government on being congratulated by the hon. Baronet at the other side of the House.
 Mr. Wallace  was one of those who had wished to give his vote in favour of this motion, but he found himfelf compelled to adopt a different course. From the report of the last Session he had taken an account of the money expended yearly in the payment of the judges of Scotland and their clerks, and he found that it amounted to no less a sum than 40,000 l l l l 480 481 Lord Advocate
 Mr. Gillon  should oppose the Speaker leaving the chair, because he did not conceive that there was any necessity for the present measure. The increase now contemplated in the salaries of the Scotch judges was totally uncalled for and unjustified under the present circumstances of the country. This was a period when the Government and Parliament were called upon to exercise a most rigid economy in all the departments of the State; some urgent necessity, therefore, ought to be established to warrant the learned Lord in making any proposition for an increase of the salaries of the judges in Scotland. The salaries of these judges were increased in 1810. Previous to that year, a Scotch judge received 1,280 l l 472 s s l l l 473 l l l l l l l 474 l l l l l 475
 Mr. Gillon  opposed the resolution. Considering what was the amount of the labour actually called for from the judges and looking at the remuneration given, he was of opinion, that the present salaries were amply sufficient. It appeared by the evidence of Lord Jeffery before the committee of 1834, that the average time occupied in the daily session of the court was one hour and a half only. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Cockermouth as to getting persons of eminence at the bar to accept the office of Judge, he contended, that a salary of 2,000 l "While that House was desirous that every judge of the land should be adequately remunerated, they were of opinion, that the whole time of those Judges should be devoted to the public service, and that although the salaries of the judges of Scotland were less in amount than the salaries of the judges in England, it was sufficient to maintain the dignity of the office, and to promote the due administration of justice, which would never be endangered by the want of first-rate talent at the bar to accept the office."
 Sir G. Clerk , instead of thinking that the Scotch Members displayed any eagerness to obtain increased allowances for their own countrymen, as the hon. Member for Kilkenny had insinuated, thought they were rather liable to blame for having allowed this question to remain so long unsettled. This question, as to the propriety of increasing the salaries of the judges of Scotland, was first brought forward so long back as the year 1825: but the House declined to interfere with it at that time, because it was stated that great changes in the constitution of the Scotch courts were in contemplation, and because it was argued that until those changes were made, it would be premature to increase the salaries of those who presided in those courts, In the years 1829 and 1830, his learned Friend Sir W. Rae, who was then Lord-Advocate, brought forward
 491 492 493
 The Attorney-General  rose to address the House, but observed, that if the hon. Member far Southwark were disposed to offer any remarks, he would willingly give way.
 The Attorney-General : notwithstanding the taunts and sarcasms in which the hon. Gentleman had indulged, was satisfied that this would not be viewed nor dealt with as a party question. It was a matter upon which it was highly desirable that the House should proceed with great deliberation. There was a difference of opinion upon the question, although the majority of lawyers certainly entertained a strong opinion different from that given by Mr. Rogers. It was the more necessary that the House should not proceed hastily to a decision, because it was a matter which might come before a court of justice; and it was very desirable to guard against the possibility of a collision of opinion between that House and the courts of Westminster Hall. The question was whether the office held by Mr. Harvey was a disqualifying office. In his opinion it was. Another question arose as to whether it made any difference in the case, that no salary was assigned; in his opinion it made no difference; because the party holding the office might go to the minister of the Crown and say, "assign me a salary," and if the minister refused, he could go to the Court of Queen's Bench and procure a  mandamus de facto 465
 Sir R. Inglis  did not mean to divide the House on the introduction of the Bill, but he objected to bringing in a Bill for the distribution of the ecclesiastical property of the Church of England at this hour of the night (ten o'clock) as if it were a mere turnpike Bill, when it was in reality a Bill to alter the Constitution of England. He could hardly have believed it possible that his noble Friend would have proposed such a Bill in a manner so comparatively easy. Of the general principle of the Bill he had had so many opportunities of stating his opinion, that he would not now occupy the attention of the House. It was one of serious importance, and calculated to produce the greatest mischief to the Church. He justified himself in not dividing the House, solely on the reason that the House was not prepared for it, and that during the last Session the House had assented to receiving the Bill.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that his advice, or rather his opinion (for he would not presume to give his advice), was, that the proposition of the Attorney-General should be at once adopted. That being his opinion, he would not say one word upon the case; but he was bound to say, in justice to his right hon. Friend (Mr. Wynn), that he intimated to him (Sir R. Peel) before the debate began, that if any other person proposed a select Committee, he should at once accede to the proposition; but that his own opinion upon the case was so strong, that no alternative was left to him but to move the issuing of a new writ. If it were the opinion of the House that a Committee should be appointed for the purpose of searching precedents, it would be much better that all discussions should cease at one, so that the members of the Committee might enter upon the consider-
 466
 Mr. Thomas Duncomhe : next Wednesday-Wednesday and Friday.
 Mr. Elliott  said, that the order in question was not a new one. The theatrical performers made their engagements, well knowing of its existence. He, therefore, thought that such a question need not be decided by a division. Why did not the parties who now considered themselves entitled to redress, come before the House with-a petition long since?
 Mr. Creswell  contended, that the application ought not to be entertained, as the performers made their engagement with the full consciousness that the order would be issued as heretofore. They, therefore, had no right to complain now. Other performers, as well as those of Drury-lane, were interested in the present system, and should have their rights considered as well as the applicants. His opinion was, that the House would act irrationally and unadvisedly if it were to entertain this application.
 Mr. Jarvis  said, that the Crown and Anchor, the Queen's Theatre, and Astley's, over the water, were out of the jurisdiction of the Lord Chamberlain's order. This was a case in which not only managers, and performers, but also a large number of workmen, domestics, and other individuals, were concerned. If those persons could be thought bound to live for seven days upon what they should have for four, because it was Lent, he admitted, that the application should not be received. There was no necessity for an Act of Parliament to induce the Lord Chamberlain to alter what was merely an old custom, and which certainly ought to be relaxed. If the inhabitants of Westminster and other districts of the metropolis were not allowed to enjoy the innocent amusements of the theatre, he apprehended that they would go to other places, where the amusements would be far from a harmless character. On the ground of sound practical policy, and also upon considerations of humanity they ought to grant the prayer of this application.
 Sir Robert Fergusson  thought there ought to be some alteration with respect to the latter part of the clause as it was at present framed, and he thought it was likely to create great difficulty. He thought that the Poor-law Commissioners should have the power of appointing the barrister who was to decide upon the validity of the rate.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the question entirely depended upon whether it were such a case of personal grievance as that the House would decide upon taking the discussion immediately. As far as he collected the opinion of the Speaker, he seemed at first to doubt whether it were such a case that the House would hear it now, but he thought that the Speaker's impression afterwards was, that as these persons would certainly suffer in their means of subsistence on Wednesday next, therefore, the petition came within the rule of a grievance, and therefore, that the discussion should take place. With the latter sentiment, he was disposed to concur.
 Mr. P. Thomson  suggested, that the petition be printed, and that the hon. Member give notice of a motion for tomorrow for that purpose.
 The Speaker : the hon. Member is not exactly correct in the view he has taken.
 The Speaker  said, he was sure he need not remind the hon. Member, that there could be no order in the proceedings of that House if they were to revert to what were the alleged rights of individuals on all occasions, without reference to those which the House had established for the general convenience. It would be impossible to carry on the business of the House if some system was not observed. He might observe, that although it was an order of that House that Orders of the Day should have precedence on certain days, and notices of motions on certain other days, yet unquestionably, according to the strict abstract rights of Members of Parliament, any Member who consulted only his own convenience might make a motion which would entirely defeat all these arrangements. He would put it to the good sense and feeling of the House whether they ought not, for the sake of the people, whose business it was their duty to transact—whether it were not for the general advantage, that the business should be conducted according to fixed and certain rules. With respect to the
 579
 The Speaker  would leave it to the hon. Member to take whatever course he thought proper under the circumstances.
 The Speaker  inquired what was the earliest day the performers would be affected unless the motion was put.
 The Speaker  said, that the question was, whether the hon. Gentleman should not present the petition now, and take an opportunity of having it discussed in the course of the evening.
 Mr. Leader  said, it certainly had been his intention to have seconded the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury. The hon. Member told him, that he intended to present a petition, and had asked him to come down to the House to second it, and as the matter concerned the substance of many, and the amusement of all his constituents, he felt himself bound to do so. He certainly did not intend to oppose what might appear to be the wish of the House, and if there was any rule against it, they ought to abide by that rule. If it could be arranged to take the subject into consideration the first thing to-morrow.—[Loud cries of  "No! no
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe : The lessee and performers. If the noble Lord would say, that the subject was one that ought to be considered, then he would only lay the petition on the table; if not, then he
 580
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe : If the House would allow the case to come on to-morrow, he would have no objection to postpone it; but these people were starving in the meantime. His motion was so rational and so reasonable, that the House could have no difficulty in agreeing to it.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  contended that one of the rules of the House was, that all petitions complaining of personal grievances should be entertained and discussed when presented. That was his case.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said, the petitioners complained, that they were deprived of a third part of their income by the interference of the Lord Chamberlain. If the complaint were not immediately discussed Lent would be over, and, according to the old saying, while the grass was glowing the horse would starve. It was his intention immediately to move an Address to her Majesty, that she would graciously please to issue her orders to the Lord Chamberlain not to restrict in the City of
 578 "No, Order."
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said, if the noble Lord would only say, that he would take the subject into consideration, so that the rational amusements of the people might not be interrupted, he would consent to withdraw it; but it was too bad, when balls, and concerts, and clubs were permitted to remain open in every part of the town—
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  had a petition to present, complaining of an arbitrary restriction on the Amusements of the people. The petition was from the proprietors and managers of Drury-lane Theatre, who complained of the unjust interference of the Lord Chamberlain with the amusements of the people on the Wednesdays and Fridays in Lent. The hon. Member went on to say, that while theatrical performances were prohibited in Westminster, it was only necessary to cross Oxford-street, which was not under the jurisdiction of the Lord Chamberlain. [Loud calls of  "Order."
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  would much rather that the House should dispose of it now in one way or other. He did not see what objection the House could have to the petition. There could be no doubt that the Crown had the power of directing the Lord Chamberlain not to interfere. The hon. Member then moved, that an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, that she will be graciously pleased to give directions to the Lord Chamberlain, to sanction on Wednesdays and Fridays, during Lent, within the City of Westminster, such entertainments as are enjoyed by her Majesty's loyal subjects in every other part of the metropolis.
 Mr. Gladstone  thought, that the petition might be looked upon as referring to a public grievance, and as such an exception to the rule laid down with respect to presenting petitions.
 Sir Benjamin Hall  said, his hon. Friend had asked, why did not those parties come forward with their petition long since? Now, it was only last Friday that the Lord Chamberlain's order was issued. The order was in a great degree inefficacious, as the performers might go to Marylebone, or the Crown and Anchor, and act there.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  wished to know who were the petitioners.
 Sir George Clerk  said, he felt it was out of order for any hon. Member to interfere with a notice of motion before the House; but a motion could not be brought forward without notice.
 Viscount Morpeth  moved the Order of the Day, for the House going into Committee of the whole House on the Poor Relief (Ireland) Act Amendment Bill.
 Mr. Villiers : Sir, if I do not commence my address to the House with an apology for incompetency to perform the task which has fallen upon me, it is, I can assure the House, far more from a regard for their time than from any confidence in myself or any want of respect to them, for I can truly say, that unless those on whose behalf I am about to make this application, had not assured me that their cause depended upon a simple statement of its merits, and not upon the talent of its advocate, I should have shrunk from the responsibility which I am now undertaking. They, however, approach this House as men of business, hoping that in that spirit the subject may be discussed, and that all unnecessary topics of irritation will be avoided, and I can assure the House that no example of a different course will be offered by me. In accordance then, Sir, with the notice which I have given, it is my duty to move, that certain persons who have petitioned this House, may be allowed to prove the allegations of that petition at the bar of this House. Who those persons are, what it is that they allege and are prepared to prove, and the grounds on which they are induced to make this application, I will as briefly as I am able, state to the House. The petitioners, then, deeply interested themselves in the subject matter of their petition, have been selected by their fellow-citizens and fellow-sufferers, assembled at great meetings for the purpose, to make known to this House, by all legitimate means in their power, the specific grievance of which they complain. They bring this complaint, chiefly from those vast districts of industry in this country, where the mass of the inhabitants depending for existence on the employment of their labour, expect that employment as much from the demands of people in other countries as from their countrymen around. The names of some places from which the petitioners proceed, will at once make known the interests which they represent. They are
 610 l l l l l l l l 611 612 613 614 l s l s 615 "Could the American goods be afforded at a lower price than the English goods?—Yes; I have understood, that we have sent goods to India, where we pay an extra duty, and still undersell the English." Same witness examined before the factory commissioners. "What is the nature of your manufactures? —Spinning and weaving coarse yarns. "Is any of it for exportation?—Yes. "To what markets?—South America, West and East-Indian markets. "Do you find, that you can compete successfully with British manufactures of a similar kind in the same market?—Yes, although we labour under some disadvantages. "And notwithstanding these drawbacks, you can compete with us?—Yes; and not only so, but are gaining ground upon you, and have already excluded you from some markets. 616 "From what markets?—Some of the Mexican and South American. Several of our largest establishments have contracts pending for a long time forward for those markets at prices which would not give a fair return to the British manufacturer, but are very profitable to our manufacturers. "You say this from having ascertained, during your visit to Manchester and other manufacturing districts in this country, the exact state of the relative prices?—Yes." Mr. Timothy Wiggin, an American, largely connected with the United States, by business, and also interested in the cotton manufacture there. "Have you been many years engaged in the cotton manufacture?—I took an interest in those manufactures many years since. "Has the cotton manufacture in the United States prospered of late years?—It has; it is now prosperous. "Do you think there is any probability of their being able to compete with us in any articles in a third market?—The manufacturers of certain descriptions of cotton goods find a demand for their fabrics in South America, and also at Smyrna and Constantinople. "Is that the particular description of manufacture in which you are engaged?—It is." Mr. Joshua Bates (an American) manufacturer, and also partner of Messrs. Baring, Brothers. "Do you know whether the returns of the cotton manufactures of the United States have of late been profitable or not?—I have various means of learning, that the cotton manufactures are profitable. "That the capital invested in the cotton manufacture some few years ago, has yielded a fair return?—It has "Is there not a considerable export from the United States of America of manufactured cotton?—There is an exportation which has been very considerable of common coarse cottons. "You are aware, that America possesses all the resources and elements necessary to become a manufacturing country in a very superior degree?—Undoubtedly she does. "And that all the improvements and inventions existing in European countries, will, and do, find their way into the United States?—Certainly," Mr. William Graham of Glasgow, (a manufacturer)—"Do you find any foreign competition that affects profits?—Yes, we find now in all foreign markets a competition in our stouter fabrics by the American manufacturers. "What description of goods do you make?—Principally the heavy domestic fabrics. "Do they meet you in the East-Indian market?—Yes, within the last twelve months we have heard of their being brought into the market of Calcutta, and underselling our goods even there, where they pay an extra duty. "Do the Americans export those manufactures considerably?—They do. "Do you find the competition of the Amer-
 617 "In what parts of the world?—In Mexico for the last five or six years largely; in the Brazils considerably; Buenos Ayres, round Cape Horn, at Valparaiso, considerably. In Manilla and Sincapore they have also made their appearance; also at St. Domingo. "Do they come into competition with you in the Mediterranean, or in the German markets?—We have done little in the Mediterranean for some years. At one time we had complaints from Malta, that the American manufacturers had interfered with our sales." Mr. Kirkman Finlay, of Glasgow (a British manufacturer)—"Are you aware of the progress within the last few years of the cotton manufacture in the United States of America?—I have seen a great deal of correspondence upon the subject. "Has it not increased very much in the last ten years?—It has grown up since 1814. "Are you aware whether there is, or is not an export trade in manufactured cotton from the United States?—I am aware there is. "Are you aware to what countries domestics are exported from America?—They have been trying them in all countries. They are a very active, industrious, and enterprising people, and there is scarcely any country they visit where they do not take some of them. I should say from my own knowledge, especially in Turkey and South America, and I have understood they have taken some to India. "Looking at the United States with reference to its advantages or disadvantages, is it your impression, that nothing can prevent the progress, more or less rapid, of the manufacture fin that country?—Clearly. I think nothing will withdraw them from that manufacture, that it will increase more or less rapidly, according to circumstances, and that it will be formidable." 618 "Do you conceive, that there are any other burthens in this country affecting you, the absence of which in America enables their manufactures to come into competition with you?—Yes; there is another direct duty which comes heavily upon us, and that is the duty upon foreign wheat and flour used in our manufactures. "What do you suppose is the increased cost to your manufactory arising from the duty on flour?—I should think we pay in duty on flour 600 l l To which was appended this note— "The extra annual cost during the ten years prior to 1835, of the British cotton manufacture, for flour used in weaving and bleaching, above what the same quantity would have cost the manufacturers of the United States and the Continent of Europe, estimated according to the ratio of the difference of the average prices of wheat in these countries, and in Great Britain comes out at 175,000 l 619 l 620 l l l l l 621 "The woollen manufacture of England has already suffered materially, and is threatened with still more serious injury, from the competition of continental rivals. In proof of which the following facts are offered:—
 
 "1. Until a few years ago the English buyers at the great German wool fairs predominated so much in number, and in the extent of their purchases over the buyers of other countries, as to rule the prices; but within the last few years, the German and Belgian buyers have exceeded them in their purchases, being able, from the flourishing state of their manufactures, to afford a higher price for the article, and the English buyers are now regarded as of small comparative importance. "2. The exceedingly rapid growth of the woollen manufacture in Prussia, and the other countries of the German Commercial League, is shown by the fact, that five or six years since, the quantity of German woollen cloths exhibited for sale at the Leipsic fair was only 50,000 ends (an end being half a piece), where last year the quantity exhibited was 350,000 ends; being an increase of 600 per cent. "3. That, independent of the duty laid on English cloths, in Germany Prussian cloths are sold much cheaper than English. English fine woollens are excluded from Germany and several neutral markets; and as soon as the Prussians can sufficiently extend their manufacture—which they are doing with astonishing rapidity—they will beat the English in all neutral markets, and probably in the home market of England itself, notwithstanding the import duty on foreign woollens in this country.
 Mr. Pryme , who had given notice of an amendment on the motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, rose to say, that it was not his intention to press it. He had expected, when the hon. Member first announced his intention of mooting the subject, that on the present occasion the general question of repeal would have been gone into; and in that persuasion he had given notice of his intention to move an amendment, the effect of which had direct reference to the general question, and not to that now before the House. This being so, he should not put his amendment to-night, but move it on a future occasion, when the question of total abolition or a fixed duty came under the notice of the House.
 Mr. Heathcote  trusted, that as his hon. colleague and himself had presented 170 petitions upon the subject, he might be permitted to say a few words. Now he would at once say, that he would give a decided opposition to the proposal of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, both on point of principle and on point of form. First of all he denied, that there was any necessity for inquiry, because there was no necessity for appeal. He did not think that the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had shown that deterioration in our manufactures which he had set out with asserting, but even if he had, other reasons might be shown for it. However, no class of men had a right to say, we will benefit ourselves at the expense of our neighbours; we will get out of the mire on the shoulders of other people. During the long time that he had been a Member of the House he had never known of a similar inquiry. He assured them, that if the inquiry now asked for, were granted, it would go on  ad infinitum; 659
 Sir H. Fleetwood  would not have risen except for the purpose of giving the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, an opportunity of knowing what the truth was relative to the manufactories of Preston, as the noble Lord had made a speech the other day, the whole effect of which rested on a mere passing conversation. He wished to show the House, and the people at large, that even the noble Lord
 672
 Lord Stanley  did not mean to enter into any discussion, but wished to say that he should be sorry if anything like an air of ridicule should be cast on this very serious and important question. When his hon. Friend told him he was extremely astonished that he (Lord Stanley) should venture to speak on such loose information as it appeared he had received, as to the number of factories built within the last few years in Preston, he could only express to the hon. Baronet his regret that he should have relied on such loose authority, and assure him that he would never again deem
 673 l 674 confesso 675
 Sir H. Fleetwood  wished to state to the House what he really had said. He was passing up on the other side of the House, when the noble Lord stopped him, and asked, whether there was not a great increase in the manufactures of Preston. He answered him, that there was. He thought that he had stated, that in one year there was an increase of ten manufactories, and another of nine; but that he had never mentioned to him the year; but when he came back he stated to him, that tile factories then built had been engaged for long before, and that they had been built since; such was what he had really stated to the noble Lord, and though he might think it very well to get rid of a question by a sarcasm, he could not agree with him, that this was a question which ought to be so disposed of.
 Mr. Villiers  replied. When I brought my motion before the House this evening, I had some doubts as to the propriety of the course I had adopted, and some doubts as to whether my view was justifiable and correct. I now rise with very different feelings. I am now confident that the course which I took and which the petitioners recommended, was a wise and sensible one. Unfortunately I was not in the House when the noble Lord on the Treasury Bench spoke against the motion; but from what has been repeated to me, I
 689 "No, no." 690 691
 Lord Worsley  said, that considering the present application for hearing evidence at the bar was got up when the manufacturing towns were clamouring for a repeal of the Corn-laws, he was convinced the object of this motion was to obtain the abolition of those laws. Now, he had made up his mind that the repeal of the Corn-laws would be most prejudicial to the interests of the empire, and he thought that during the repeated discussion upon this question every hon. Member must have had ample opportunities of making up his mind upon the subject. He was a Member for an agricultural constituency, and he was certain the repeal of the Corn-laws would be most injurious to the agricultural, and through them to the manufacturing interests. He could not help recollecting what would have been the condition of this country at a period like that of the late American distress if it had not been for the home markets. He was convinced the present agitation for the repeal of the Corn-laws was the consequence of the late high prices of corn, by which, however, the farmers had not benefited. He could only say, for that part of the country with which he was acquainted, that the produce was so inferior in quantity and quality, that, although the farmer was receiving 75 s s s s d s
 Lord John Russell : It will be unnecessary for me to trouble the House long on the narrow question now before it, as what has been stated by my noble Friend, the Member for North Northumberland, completely forestalls any argument which I might otherwise have thought it necessary to address to the House. It is precisely on the grounds, that my noble Friend has adduced, that I, too, am prepared to vote against the hon. Gentleman's motion. In so doing,
 677 678
 Mr. Hindley  would not trespass more than a minute on the attention of the House, but he wished to read to hon. Members opposite the sentiments of one for whom he believed they entertained great respect; and when he mentioned the name, he had no doubt they would listen to him in silence—he alluded to Mr. Pitt, who, in 1785, when certain petitioners requested to be heard by evidence at the bar of the House, said,
 "That he would at all times be extremely delicate with regard to the introduction of any new precedent into the forms and proceedings of the House, and particularly one of a nature that could by any means interrupt or impede the access of their constituents to Parliament, either with petition, remonstrance, or advice, when they thought their own interest, or that of the public, likely to suffer for want of due information; that he should feel an irresistible temptation to sacrifice, not only the forms, but even the positive orders of the House, rather than suffer them to be an obstacle to any complaints which the apprehensions without doors might give rise to, in finding their way to the bar; and so far was he from wishing to encourage any obstacle of that kind, that although the House seemed almost unanimously to coincide with him, that joint interests were not entitled to separate discussion of counsel, yet he was satisfied he should be called in, and directed to proceed in his argument."
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that as it appeared to be the opinion of the House on this occasion that the general question of the Corn-laws should be reserved for discussion on a future occasion, he would not then go into that subject. It was therefore his intention to confine himself to the question under discussion, namely, the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton, to hear evidence at the bar. He had given way with great pleasure to his hon. Friend the Member for the North Riding of Yorkshire, to hear what he might have to say against the motion of his hon. Friend behind him. He regretted that more Gentlemen, and especially hon. Members opposite, who were generally known to be adverse to any change in the Corn-laws, had not risen to address the House. It certainly appeared rather strange that only three hon. Members, and all of them sitting on his own side of the House, had got up to advocate the refusal of the motion of his hon. Friend. He could well understand the grounds on which the motion was opposed by those who repudiated any change in the policy of the Corn-laws, and he could understand why his hon. Friend who spoke last thought it to be both inexpedient and unwise to grant the motion. The hon. Gentleman stated, that he knew no reason for it, and this was because he wished for no new information favourable to the repeal. His hon. Friend was probably, like his noble Friend (Lord Worsley), and his hon. colleague the Member for Lincolnshire, against any change; they had made up their minds to allow no change, and there fore would have no new evidence brought before the House. But this was a very different answer coming from them, (the Opposition) coming from those who professed themselves favourable to a change. He would intreat the House to remember what would be the feelings of that great body of petitioners, asking not for a change—asking not for a hasty decision on this subject—not asking you at once to legislate, but that you should only hear their case, and allow them an opportunity of making out their
 663 664 665 "On the 20th of April, 1812, the House agreed, without a division, to hear evidence in support of the petitions. The inquiry on the side of the petitions was solely conducted by two Members, and each night presented a new operation and new defeats to the advocates of the Orders in Council, and new advantages to the opposite, by incidental debates on petitions presented, by discussions arising on evidence tendered, and by other matters broached occasionally in connection with the main subject. Government at first, conceiving and hoping, that the clamour which had been raised out of doors against their policy would soon subside, endeavoured to gain time and to put off the hearing of the evidence;
 666 Cheers from the Opposition, 667 s s s 668 669 d d s d l l 670 671
 Mr. Cayley : As the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had most truly stated, when the working classes and their masters pulled together they would be irresistible, but the hon. Gentleman was very much mistaken if he supposed the masters had so far deluded the operatives, or that they pulled with them on the present occasion. The operatives of the master manufacturers had had the bitter experience of the last twenty years to convince them of the sympathy which the masters felt for them. Well had he seen since he had become a Member of the House, the sympathy exhibited by that class in favour of the poor, emaciated, crippled, death-like factory workmen. Well did he remember when his hon. Friend had, year after year, brought forward his motion for the relief of the handloom-weavers what was the tone of the masters. Was the tone taken on the present occasion that adopted by them for-
 661 662
 Mr. Horsman  said, he should vote for the motion, because it would lead to a repeal of the Corn-laws. The noble Lord who had just sat down might be well acquainted with the subject, but other Members were not, and was it fair that they should be prevented from informing, themselves upon the question? Until recent facts were laid before the House, he had no idea that our commerce and manufactures had been so much deteriorated by the
 657 658
 Mr. Strutt , in rising to second the motion, would not after the full statement of his hon. Friend, detain the House for
 634 635 636 637
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had very much misconceived the utility of the motion now before the House. He did not know the precise object of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, but he thought that the intention must be an eminently useful one—his object appeared to be to place all the hon. Gentlemen opposite in the wrong—to permit those who complained of the Corn-laws as a grievance, to show wherein the evils consisted, and to explain to the House what were these causes. Did they think that Gentlemen, predisposed on this question, would not be happy to receive information upon it? When the hon. Member for Kendal, on the first night of the Session, brought forward some facts in favour of the present system, which they (the hon. Gentlemen opposite) considered undeniable, did they make any objection then? Not they. He referred to certain admissions which had been made by the Chairman of the Manchester Chamber of Commerce. Those admissions, which told one way, were eagerly received, while those of an opposite character they now seemed unwilling to permit to be established by evidence. The object of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton and his supporters was, as he had already said, to prove that the hon. Gentlemen opposite were in the wrong. Indeed, in doing this the hon. Member was already successful. If all the hon. Members of the House were as enlightened on this question as her Majesty's Ministers must be, there would indeed be no necessity for further evidence.
 660
 Mr. Brotherton  knew very well, that the manufactures of the country had increased to a very great extent, and he hoped they would continue to increase as the prosperity of the country depended upon it. It was very possible, that a number of mills had been contracted for
 676
 Mr. Thornely , as one of the four witnesses on the occasion of the inquiry in 1812 on the effect of the Orders in Council, could not avoid saying a few words. On
 655 656
 Sir Francis Burdett : Sir, I think the hon. Member has given a very cogent reason for the House not wasting its time in hearing evidence at the bar. The facts stated by him with great ability had a considerable effect upon my mind. But supposing the House chooses to take these facts for granted, as I am willing to do, I do not see why we should undergo the fatigue and loss of time in hearing evidence which would be unnecessary, seeing the facts are admitted upon which I think the question ought to be argued. Whenever the question comes before the House, I shall be ready to give it my best attention. At the same time I have not the slightest hesitation in stating my conviction that the landed interests—in which I am principally concerned—are under very erroneous impressions on the subject. On a subject of this description, the facts being as I think, undeniable—I think it more convenient that the discussion should take place upon the merits,
 Mr. Ward , concurring as he did entirely in the propriety of the policy and the necessity of the course pursued by his hon. Friend on this occasion, would endeavour to confine himself in the very few observations he should make to the speech that had been delivered by the noble Lord, the Member for North Northumberland. He had heard that speech with a mixture of pin and pleasure; for while be felt great gratification at the manly avowal of opinion made by a noble Lord, whose position, office, personal character, and ability made him so respectable in that House, yet there were some parts of that speech to which he had listened with the deepest regret. He regretted the conclusions at which the noble Lord had arrived, and, above all the necessity of that division, which the noble Lord himself deprecated, amongst those who were hostile to the Corn-laws; nor could he admit the justice or propriety of the grounds on which that conclusion had been based. The noble Lord contended, that the course taken by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton was unfavourable to the object he had in view—the arrival at the truth; and, that
 653 Cheers. 654
 Mr. Mark Phillips  regretted, that any Member should talk of wasting the time of the House on a subject affecting the interests of every inhabitant of the United Kingdom. As to the evidence offered by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, it
 638 639 l 640 l 641 642 643
 Sir Robert Peel ; Sir, the sincere respect I feel for the petitioners, my firm conviction that the interests which they represent are of the utmost importance to the general welfare of this country, makes me unwilling to give in perfect silence a vote which may appear to have something of harshness in it, excluding as it does, the inquiry for which they ask. But I find
 679 s 680 No! 681 682 683 Villiers: 684 Member: 685 l l l l l l l 686 l l l l l l l l 687 688 prima facie
 Sir R. Peel , in explanation, would not have spoken at all on this occasion, if he had understood the first speech of the hon. and learned Member in the sense in which he understood his reply. From the latter he understood that the gentlemen who had petitioned the House were prepared to show certain indications of an approaching evil which provident statesmen ought to attend to. His argument had been directed against that contained in the first speech of the hon. and learned Member, which he had taken down—namely, that the manufacture of articles into which manual labour entered, or which was affected by the price of provisions, was gradually decreasing, and had gradually been driven out of the market by foreign competitors, and he (Sir R. Peel) had read his returns to show this country was not in the condition which he had understood the hon. and learned Gentleman to state.
 Viscount Howick : Sir, in consequence of what has fallen from the hon. Members for Wolverhampton, Derby, and Manchester, I am anxious to take the earliest opportunity of stating the reasons which induce me to give my opposition to the motion. I, Sir, oppose the motion, not because I am an advocate for the existing system of Corn-laws, on the contrary, from the first moment I had the honour of a seat in this House, I have entertained a strong opinion of the impolicy and the injustice of the existing Corn-laws. In the year 1828 I formed one of a very small minority who joined the hon. Member for Kilkenny, in voting against the principle of the present Corn-laws. The experience I have gained since that time has only strengthened my conviction that the existing laws cannot but be prejudicial to the interests of all classes of the community, and my experience goes to show me that they are more particularly prejudicial to the interests of the agricultural classes. Hon. Gentlemen opposite may consider this a paradox, but when the question comes regularly before the House I shall be prepared to state my reasons for coming to such a conclusion. In the mean time, I will say this, that I will oppose the motion now before the House, not because I am an advocate for the present system of Corn-laws, but on the contrary, because that I am an opponent, a firm and consistent opponent of the present fluctuating scale of duties. I do not, Sir, oppose the motion on the ground of form. The hon. Member for Wolverhampton has quoted many precedents, all of which I am prepared to admit were most pertinent to the subject. In my opinion, it is perfectly fit for the House to take the course prayed for by the petitioners. I can see no irregularity—no impropriety, in adopting that course—but, before doing so, we have most seriously to consider whether it will be advantageous or disadvantageous to us in arriving at a sound view of this very important topic. In my opinion, Sir, it will not have an advantageous tendency; on the contrary, my opinion is, that by hearing evidence at the bar, we shall obstruct instead of promote the desire which we
 644 645 646 647 648 649 650 651 652
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had not previously seen the paragraph in question, but in the course of that day he had received a communication from his right hon. Friend, the Comptroller of the Exchequer, calling his attention to the extraordinary statement which had appeared relative to the matter to which the hon. Member had alluded. It was not because he thought such statements should on ordinary occasions be noticed, or refuted, that he replied to the question, because he thought that the more free and unrestricted discussion was out of doors, the better it was for the commumunity at large. But where a statement made had a tendency to affect public credit and where it admitted of an immediate and direct contradiction, he thought it justifiable for any hon. Member to ask the question, and he thought it the duty of a Member of the Government to answer the question. His attention had been called to the subject by his right hon. Friend, the Comptroller of the Exchequer, and the best answer that he could give to the question which had been put, was, to read the letter from his right hon. Friend, in which he stated, that he had always disregarded statements which appeared in the public press respecting the conduct of business in his office, but that if he now deviated from that course, it was, because he considered an article which had appeared in that day's City intelligence, as was one vitally affecting public credit, and that it therefore became necessary for him to declare the statement totally unfounded, and at complete variance with the existing condition of the financial department. His right hon. Friend then referred to a fact, which the House, he was satisfied, would have great pleasure in hearing, that so far was it from being true that no deficiency bills had been paid off since the 1st of January, a larger amount had been paid off in the present
 698
 Lord Granville Somerset  wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade whether it were his intention to move for a Select Committee, or to introduce a measure regulating conveyance by Railways? It was quite necessary before the House proceeded with any Railway Acts that the House should come to some resolution as to the propriety of enacting more stringent measures for rendering the Railway Companies responsible for injuries occasioned by the neglect and carelessness of their servants.
 Mr. P. Thomson  could not positively say what the intentions of Ministers were as to this subject but he was willing to say it was worthy the consideration of the House, and that circumstances had lately been brought to his knowledge, convincing him that it was important, either by the appointment of a Select Committee, or by the introduction of a Government measure, to discuss the propriety of making some regulations, which had formerly been neglected—not through any fault of his, but through the current of public feeling being then against such regulations; he would certainly give the question the best consideration in his power. He thought it would be impossible in the Committees on Private Bills, to introduce the necessary additional regulations; for those Committees were in general occupied by private interests, and the public interests were too much neglected. It was, therefore, essential that the House itself should consider the subject: and on any applications for new Rail-way Bills, or applications for enlarged powers, by the promoters of railway schemes, to effect such alterations as would save the public from the great inconveniences to which they have been subjected by the Railway Companies.
 The Speaker  observed, that the course pursued by the hon. Member was most inconvenient, for he had made a speech when there was no question before the House.
 Mr. Pattison  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer an important question. He thought it of the highest importance to the public credit, that a statement made in a paper of that day should be contradicted, if it were not founded on fact. The statement to which he alluded, was to the effect, that no portion of the deficiency bills had been paid off since the 1st of January. He wished to know whether that were correct.
 Mr. Wyse  rose to move an address to her Majesty, that she will be graciously pleased to appoint a Board of Commission of Education in England, with the view especially of providing for the wise, equitable, and efficient application of sums granted, or to be granted, for the advancement of education by Parliament; and for the immediate establishment of Schools for the education of teachers in accord with the intention already expressed by the Legislature. The motion which he had given notice of on the first day of the Session was in the same words as that which he had brought under the notice of the House during the last Session, and therefore it would not be his duty to detain the House at any great length. In 1833, and every year since, the House had granted a sum of 20,000 l. 699
 Mr. Wynn  said, in accordance with the decision of the Committee, which he would observe was unanimously agreed to, and in which they were assisted by the law officers of the Crown, unless any hon. Gentleman wished for time in order to induce the House to come to a different conclusion, he thought it due to the electors of the borough of Southwark not to keep them without a representative, and he therefore moved that a new writ be issued for Southwark, in the room of Daniel Whittle Harvey, esquire, who, since his election, has accepted the office of Registrar of Metropolitan public carriages.
 Mr. Aglionby  would not have said a word, but for the assertion of the hon. Member who had just sat down, that there was not the shadow of a shade of doubt among the Committee which was not strictly correct, for he (Mr. Aglionby) had suggested a doubt; which doubt he still felt, although he had on the Committee submitted to a superior legal authority, whether there was not a distinction between the acceptance of an office, to which a salary was at the time of its acceptance attached, and the acceptance of an office to which there was only a contingent and uncertain salary. In this latter case, as the Court of Queen's Bench would not grant a mandamus, neither did the rule of vacating the seat in that House apply.
 Mr. Jervis  rose, to give an opportunity to the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montgomery, to contradict a rumour which was very prevalent in Wales, that since the last election he had received a place of profit under the Government, the lordship of Denbigh, for which he received something for doing certain duties. Now it was within his own knowledge, that the patent was made out since the last election. It was true it was dated before, but it was dated on an era-
 718
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he felt it to be his duty to say a few words on the subject; he might, perhaps, not express himself so clearly on the subject as if he had been present the other night—but he believed there could be no doubt of the fact, that before the election, the hon. Gentleman had applied on the subject of the appointment, when he was informed, that the re-appointment would take place as a matter of course, and the only reason for the delay which had occurred, was, that a doubt had arisen as to whether the appointment was to take place under the Woods and Forests, or under the authority of the Treasury. With regard to Gentlemen accepting the Chiltern Hundreds, which was constantly occurring, Gentlemen were in the habit of applying for the appointment of steward to the Chiltern Hundreds, and between the making out the appointment and the acceptance of the office, a delay of two or three days frequently took place, In fact however, it was the acceptance of the office, and not the making out of the appointment, that brought the law into operation. If any had occurred, he was responsible for it, and it arose out of an uncertainty as to what department it should be referred to.
 Mr. Jervis  certainly would not have mentioned the case at all if the right hon. Gentleman had not wished to know if there were any case at all analogous to that of the hon. Member for Southwark.
 720
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  by no means regretted, that the attention of the House had been called to this subject. It was undoubtedly a question which deserved the attention of Parliament; and it was his intention, in the course of the present year, to introduce a bill, with a view to correct many of the inconveniences to which his hon. Friend had adverted. There was an inequality in the rate of taxation at present existing, which it was not proper should continue. It was an unjust distinction, and an interference with the fair spirit of commercial competition which it behoved Government and Parliament to put an end to. At the same time, he could not accompany his hon. Friend in many of the statements he had made. His hon. Friend had proposed to take off certain duties; and he then said, that he should propose certain new duties which would supply the deficiency of revenue which the first part of his proposition would occasion. The different manner in which these two very distinct proposals were received might induce his hon. Friend to sympathise with him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) a little on the very difficult and delicate task of proposing a new tax. Whilst, however, he agreed, that the present unequal rates of duty imposed on postmasters and on railways gave an unjust advantage to the latter over the former, still his hon. Friend was entirely in error in supposing that some of the duties to which he had adverted were progressively diminishing. The years which his hon. Friend had selected for instituting his comparison were not altogether fairly taken. Out of a series of years, two years might be selected with sufficient adroitness for the purpose of establishing a comparison that should support almost any side of a proposition. His hon. Friend had taken the year 1837, when the duty on stage carriages amounted to 583,742 l., l., 730 l., l. l. l., l. l. 731 ex parte 732
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  was happy to hear
 735
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied that the change in the mode of collection had been a great relief to the parties concerned; it had prevented them from being subject to vexatious prosecutions, and had, no doubt, caused some increase in the amount of the revenue; but he believed, that the revenue had increased not in these years alone, but that the increase had been progressive for five years.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no objection to give the returns if the hon. Gentleman framed his motion as he suggested. He did not think, that the House would agree, that there should be any distinction made between this Commission and other previous Commissions. The hon. and gallant Member, in his motion, called for a return of the expenses incurred with reference to the Governor-general and suite, and the number and names of them, and in addition, the expenses attendant on the conveyance, residence, and return of all persons who went out to Canada, whether they returned or not; which motion, in point of fact, would include all her Majesty's subjects. He would suggest, that the motion should be amended, confining it to the expenses incurred with reference to the Earl of Durham, as High Commissioner and Governor-general of Canada, distinguishing the amount of salaries paid, or to be paid, to Lord Durham, and each officer or other person connected with the commission, and also the expense of the progress of the Earl of Durham and suite. If the hon.
 754
 Dr. Lushington  did not think that his hon. and learned Friend opposite, exactly apprehended all the circumstances of the ease. He did not mean to enter into a particular relation of all the facts connected with the English Ecclesiastical Commission. He would merely remind the House that that commission had been appointed by the Duke of Wellington, in 1828, and had received the sanction of the successive Ministries; had been acceded to by many Bishops and other high ecclesiastical authorities. No important difference of opinion had taken place amongst them, and with regard to the matter referred to, all the Commissioners agreed. Bills founded on their recommendations, had from time to time been introduced, one in particular, by the Government of Lord Grey. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Lambeth, had also taken up the subject. It was not quite correct to state that the measures had failed from the opposition given to them. The real state of the case was this—a measure founded upon these recommendations had been introduced into the House of Lords, and there was this difficulty felt respecting it: The Bishops were of opinion that it should be preceded by a Clergy Discipline Bill. A measure of this sort had been introduced, but had not passed the House
 757 l.
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  asked whether it was the intention of the Government to bring forward any measure during the present Session for the reform of the corporation of London?
 Mr. F. Maule  answered in the negative. Leave given.
 Mr. Grattan  could not agree with the doctrine of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shaw), that everything should be left in the hands of her Majesty's Government. If this bill was bad, let it fall—if it were good, why should it not succeed on its own merits. He objected to the right hon. Gentleman's principle, as poor and miserable. He also objected to the corollary he deduced from it. It was in fact, recommending a Member of the House to abandon his independent privilege of introducing bills if' he thought proper. Nor was it necessary that the introducer of a legal measure should be a lawyer. The hon. Member for Roscommon introduced the Medical Charities Bill last year, yet he was not a doctor. Upon that principle, any measure connected with the reform of the Corporation should be left to the right hon. Gentleman, for though he was not a lawyer he was the champion of the Corporation. When the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth introduced his bill for the consolidation of the laws respecting property especially in Ireland, the right hon. Gentleman did not make a single objection on the ground of the mover not being a professional person. He thought therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman should not persevere in his opposition.
 Lord John Russell  had no objection to the return, although he must say, the hon. and gallant Member had moved for it in a somewhat singular, and perhaps inconvenient shape. As his motion stood in the printed paper, it was not very consistent either with common sense or with the English language. Perhaps the hon. Member had reconsidered it. He really thought, without imputing any motive to the hon. Gentleman, that a Member of that House, before making the observations he had made, should apply himself to learn the usual course adopted by persons employed in the public service with
 752
 Mr. A. White,  on the part of his constituents, felt bound to say, that the present system was exceedingly unjust to the British interests, especially when it was remembered that the vessels of Hanover were allowed to trade to this country on the same footing as British ships. He was therefore glad to observe that the noble Lord had this matter under his consideration, and that some steps would be taken to remedy this important impost. He begged, therefore, to support the motion of the hon. Member for Hull.
 Colonel Sibthorp  rose to move for a certain return of the expense of the Earl of Durham's Canadian mission, pursuant to the following notice of motion for a "return of the total expense incurred with reference to the appointment of the Earl of Durham as high commissioner and Governor-general of Canada, distinguishing the amount of salaries paid or to be paid to Lord Durham and each officer or other person employed in or connected with the said commission; also, stating the expense of the outfit of the Governor-general and suite and all other persons, as well during their residence in Canada as on their return to this country." Having heard that the Earl of Durham had stated that he would be 10,000 l. l. l. l, l. s. d. l. l. 750 l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  contended, that his motion was consistent with common sense; he should persist in it, without adopting the change pressed by the noble Lord. As for the observation of the noble Lord, he repelled the insinuation with sovereign contempt, in as strong language as the House would allow him to use, in answer to the unbecoming language of the noble Lord. He could tell the noble Lord, that he would not venture to make use of such observations out of that House.
 Colonel Sibthorp : I rise to ask the hon. Member whether he applies the word "disgraceful" to me with reference to my conduct on this or on any other occasion?
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that he should persist in his motion, and should not submit to its being altered at the suggestion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The motion that he proposed was the same that he showed to the Chancellor of the Exchequer up stairs, who told him there was no objection to it; but he found that another motion than that which he had given notice of, had been printed in the votes. He would have his return or no return at all. He protested against such a return being shovelled in by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whose conduct in this matter he intended to attack by it. The truth was, that the right hon. Gentleman was politically afraid to give the return; and he, therefore, wished to have it altered, so that the matter might be let alone in that House and by the public. He did not care whether his motion pleased the noble Lord or not, or whether he thought that it was consistent with common sense and good grammar, as he was sure that he could never learn anything from the noble Lord; and he was determined that he would never follow in his footsteps.
 Colonel Sibthorp : I have feelings as well as the noble Lord; and I should not have applied the remark to him, had it not been that he imputed to me a want of common sense.
 Colonel Sibthorp : I think that I am entitled to some explanation from the noble Lord before I am called upon to say anything. No such observations as you refer to, Sir, would have fallen from me, had I not have been attacked in the first instance. I deny, that I had any intention of casting a direct or implied imputation on the noble Lord alluded to; but I consider that I am justified in questioning the conduct of any public man. If censure was to be cast on any one, it was on the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for art improper expenditure of the public money; and that right hon. Gentleman was absent, and the noble Lord came forward in his defence. But I ask, was the noble Lord justified in attributing to any Member of this House a want of common sense.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  rose to move for leave to introduce two bills relating to copyright in designs for certain manufactured articles. It would be within the knowledge of the House, that during the reign of George 3rd, three Acts of Parliament were passed for the purpose of giving to the calico printers copyright in the designs used for their manufactures. The last of these Acts gave the copyright for three months from the time of the issuing of the prints from their warehouses. At that time, the use of the designs in question were confined to calico printing; but since then, there could be no doubt a very considerable amount of such prints were used in fabrics of different kinds. The Act, also, did not extend to Ireland; but since it was passed, calico printing had been carried on to a considerable extent in that country, and protection was required
 747 748 l. l. l. l.,
 Mr. Poulett Thomson,  in reply to the hon. Member for Londonderry (Sir R. Bateson) said that he had the other day answered a similar question which had been put to him by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, stating that two gentlemen were now employed gaining information relative to accidents by steam-boats, and arranging plans which he hoped to be able to lay before Parliament this Session, with the view of preventing future accidents.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the objection which his right hon. Friend had made, had not been met by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. The objection of his right hon. Friend was, that this measure had not been brought forward in such a manner as to claim the support of the House. It was not brought forward by a Member of her Majesty's Government. With respect to the English Bill, mentioned by the hon. and learned Gentleman, it appeared that the measure had been submitted to the Archbishop of Canterbury, and he should like to know whether any such course had been pursued on the present occasion? With all due deference to the hon. and learned Gentleman, he did not think the measure had been brought forward in a way to meet with the concurrence either of the House or of the parties concerned. Had it ever been brought before the Prelates of Ireland, who were so deeply concerned in the subject? He considered that the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, entertained a somewhat similar objection, at least so he interpreted the expression of anxiety made use of by the noble Lord with regard to the presence of the Solicitor General for Ireland, who had been so short a time a Member of that House. If the hon. Gentleman would agree to place his bill in the hands of the Government,
 758
 Mr. Barron  rose to bring forward his motion for a Bill to consolidate and reform the Ecclesiastical Courts in Ireland. He would begin by reading an extract from the Report of the Commission appointed to inquire into the constitution of Ecclesiastical Courts in Ireland. It said,
 "Our attention has been directed in a peculiar manner to the official and professional services connected with these Ecclesiastical Courts. The general impression is, that the expense of the proceedings in the different ecclesiastical jurisdictions, compared with the superior courts of Common Law, is unreasonable, and that this impression, as applied to the Prerogative Court, is in a great measure well founded, the evidence sufficiently proves. These evils may perhaps partly be attributed to the abuses of official practice, and the excesses in official and professional charges; but there are other causes inherent in the very
 755
 Mr. Barron : I do not allude to the hon. and gallant Member. Had I thought his observations of that character, I should have stood up and protested against them. What I mean is, to protest against the attacks which are made here and elsewhere upon a nobleman, to whom the country is, in the highest degree, indebted, who has distinguished himself on various occasions, at home and abroad, and who has succeeded in every mission he has undertaken, up to the time of his acceptance of the Lord High Commissionership. I have not the honour of the personal acquaintance of the noble Earl, but I feel called on to protest against and repudiate the imputations cast upon him. These attacks, though they may produce no effect in this House, are taken up by the public journals, and I maintain, that it is the duty of every honest Reformer to protest against such conduct. I know the base uses to which these returns will be put by the public journals, and I protest against all such attacks on the character of the nobleman in question.
 Mr. Barron : I mean that the attacks are disgraceful and discreditable. I do
 751
 Mr. Barron : The hon. Gentleman need not have asked that question. I have already stated, that I did not apply that expression to him.
 Mr. Barron  rose, not to oppose the motion, but to protest against the spirit in which attacks were made, both in and out of the House, on Lord Durham, with regard to the expenses of his mission to Canada. Such attacks were disgraceful and discreditable—
 Mr. Barron,  knowing how anxious, laborious, and unpleasant a task it was to
 759
 Mr. Goulburn  said, with respect to the case of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, to which the hon. Member for Kilkenny had alluded, he (Mr. Goulburn) had called the attention of the House to the subject himself, and no person was more vigorous in casting imputations upon him for doing so than the hon. Member for Kilkenny.
 Mr. Handley  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether the increase in the post-horse duty had not taken place since its collection had been in the hands of Government, and had not been farmed out.
 Mr. Handley  said, that without pledging himself to the accuracy of the details submitted by the hon. Gentleman to the House, or to the propriety of all the changes he proposed to make, he rose to second the resolution of the hon. Gentleman; and he was the more anxious to do it, and to engage the attention of the House for a short time, because on a former occasion he had been requested by a very large body of postmasters and innkeepers to lay their case before the House and before her Majesty's Government. The Chancellor of the Exchequer on that occasion did, he believed, all that he could do—namely, he relieved the parties from certain vexatious interferences connected with the post horse duty; but the right hon. Gentleman did not afford that relief which the hon. Member for Falkirk sought. The difficulties with which the postmasters and innkeepers had now to
 726 727 l 728
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman's object were only to arrange this system of taxation he would not have said one word; if the hon. Member had proposed to reduce the post-horse duty to a level with the duties on steam vessels and railroads, the proposition would have met with the general concurrence of the House; but when the hon. Member suggested the placing of additional taxes, he hoped that all persons interested in railroads and steam-boats would take the alarm. He remembered a former proposition by the then Chancellor of the Exchequer, Lord Althorp, which they had happily defeated, of placing the railroads under the blighting influence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was proposed also to appoint an inspector of gas-lights, as it was proposed now to appoint an inspector of steam-vessels; but he believed that it would be a great evil to place either under the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Steam navigation was a progressive art—one year it was a great feat to steam from the Thames to Plymouth—but in the next year the vast Atlantic was traversed in safety: if left alone improvement would
 733
 The Speaker : Does the hon. Member mean to apply his remarks to any Member of the House?
 The Speaker : I am sure that the hon. Member must see that such language is out of order; and that he will admit that it is so.
 The Speaker : I understood the hon. Member to say, that attacks were made, both in and out of the House, on Lord Durham, which were disgraceful and discreditable. Did the hon. Gentleman, in doing so, allude to any Member of this House?
 The Speaker : What I understood the noble Lord to say was, that the motion which the gallant Colonel had made was not the same that appeared in the votes of the day; and as it was proposed, it was not consistent with common sense or good grammar.
 The Speaker : The hon. and gallant
 753
 Mr. James Stewart  rose for leave to bring in a bill to enfranchise property held under Copyhold and Customary Tenures. He believed, that it was generally admitted, that the principle of some such bill was desirable, and the only doubt was, how far such principle should go. A bill upon this subject had been brought in last Session, which had been referred to a select committee, who were almost unanimous in coming to an important report, which went to the entire abolition of this species of tenure in this
 738 "Under these circumstances, your Committee have come to the conclusion, that the abolition of this tenure would not only be a great public benefit, but should be made, if possible, a national object. They are also of opinion, that no plan which merely leaves the option to the parties to enfranchise, will meet the exigency of the case, and they are, therefore, desirous of seeing a plan of enfranchisement introduced which shall have a due regard to the rights as well of the lord as the copyholder, but which shall be eventually compulsory on both. A plan having this object was submitted to your Committee, which will be found in the appendix; but your Committee entertained a strong opinion adverse to the system of arbitration suggested in the paper alluded to. It has, however, appeared to them, that the tithe commission, which has been recently established by Act of Parliament, might be rendered available, as affording a tribunal well qualified to deal with this important subject. The tithe commissioners have for some time pursued an inquiry of an analogous nature, and have at their disposal a machinery adapted for adjusting the rights of all parties interested in copyholds. Your Committee are, therefore, happy to state, that the tithe commissioners having been applied to, have intimated an opinion, that they could undertake this duty advantageously—and your Committee beg to refer to their evidence on this subject, which they deem highly satisfactory. In conclusion, therefore, your Committee look forward with confidence to the speedy and entire abolition of this tenure, as a means of greatly simplifying and improving the law relating to real property. They earnestly desire, that measures may be speedily taken to accomplish this object with reference as well to lands of customary as of copy-hold tenure; it appears to them, that the best mode of effecting it would be by giving every facility to enfranchisement for a short term of years, and that after that period, the enfranchisement should proceed on the compulsory principle, and they recommend that a bill having this object should be introduced in the next Session of Parliament." 739
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion; not that he concurred in many of the reasons that had been adduced by the hon. and gallant Member, but because he considered it of the utmost importance, that the public mind should be satisfied on the subject of the extraordinary expenditure attending Lord Durham's mission to Canada.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the House ought not to dismiss this question without an express declaration of what was to be done. He had not understood the right hon. Gentleman to have talked of any new duty, and he for one thought that there should be a reduction rather than an increase. He believed, that the cross posts in Ireland which were not taxed were much better than they were in England, and he thought that the taxes upon carriages prevented the approach to less frequented places in England. The great advantage possessed by this country was the great facility of communication, and why did not the Chancellor of the Exchequer repeal the taxes preventing this? Because he had no funds. If the Government had only been just to Canada and to our colonies, they would have had ample funds to enable him to take off these duties. Thus the people
 734
 Mr. Hume  had no hesitation, in explanation of what he had said, to state to the right hon. Baronet that the first question he had put to some of the Members of the Committee was, whether they had inquired into the precedents of that House. He had asked whether they had inquired into the case of the hon. Member for. Marylebone, who had been sent abroad. Whether they had inquired into the case of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock,
 717
 Mr. Hume  denied the statement of the right hon. Gentleman. That right hon. Gentleman had made some imputation which he considered improper with reference to the estimates on that subject, and what be had stated was, to deprecate the course the right hon. Gentleman pursued.
 Mr. Hume  had no hesitation in expressing his concurrence in the opinion of the Committee, and the question appeared to him as plain a one as could possibly be submitted. He rose only to state, that there had been many instances of Members of that House receiving the public money, and being appointed to public offices, without vacating their seats, and without any notice being taken of it, and it would appear that the objection in the present case was directed against Mr. Harvey. He hoped that the rule which had now been enforced would in future be rigidly observed, and that there would be no ground henceforth given for any imputation as to the partiality of the House,
 716
 Dr. Stock  would give his support to the bill, considering that it would be of essential service in Ireland.
 Mr. Lefroy  did not anticipate that the noble Lord would have given his assent to the Bill, considering the object it had in view. What was that object? Why, not only to make a revolution in the whole course of proceedings in the Ecclesiastical Courts of Ireland, but to rob of his right of patronage, the head of the Church of that country. He thought, if such a bill was to be introduced, it ought to have been brought forward by her Majesty's Government. He should, therefore, enter his protest against the measure, and he felt convinced that the end of the matter would be, that her Majesty's Government would themselves feel compelled, at a future stage, to give their determined opposition to the measure.
 Mr. Gillon,  in reply, said that it had been held out that he was an enemy to railroads, but he must deny that imputation. He had, however, joined with the Chancellor of the Exchequer against the establishment of monopolies: he would always interfere to put down monopolies, and he would rather be under the dominion of the Khan of Tartary than under a committee of railroad shareholders. It was true, as had been stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that there might be an increase in the number of short coaches going only a mile or two, but that the coaches going long stages had decreased in number was proved by the falling-off in the receipts of the first gate out of London, the Kensington gate, the receipts of which had been diminished by 163 l. s.
 Mr. Gillon  rose, pursuant to notice to call the attention of the House to the taxes on internal communication, with a view to their equalization and reduction. It was at all times an irksome task to him to intrude himself on their notice, but it was his duty on this occasion to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice. A Committee of that House had come to resolutions on the subject, and on those resolutions he should base the motion which he was now about to lay before the House. He proposed to consider the taxation to which the public conveyances by the old mode of communication n this country were peculiarly subjected under the following heads:—lst, the assessed taxes on coachmen and other servants connected with public conveyances; secondly, the duty on the hire of carriages; thirdly, mileage duty on stage coaches; fourthly, the licence duty; and fifthly, the duty on draught horses. He should then call the attention of the House to those modes of conveyance which had recently been established by the introduction of a new motive power, and which were almost wholly exempt from taxation. He alluded to the power of steam, which either by means of railroads or of vessels, conveyed persons from place to place in great numbers; and yet those modes of communication were only taxed at about one-
 721 l,, l. 722 723 Liverpool Mercury l., l., l. l. l. l., l. l. l. s. d. 724 l. s. d. l. l. s. 725 s. d., l. s. d. l.
 Mr. Ward,  as one of the Committee, felt bound to say the case was so clear, and the facts so settled, that there was not the slightest shadow of a shade of doubt upon the subject, and the Committee deemed, that they were only discharging a public duty in putting an end to the uncertainty with regard to the borough of Southwark, by the report which they had presented.
 Mr. Easthope  owed an apology to the House for addressing it under the disadvantage of not having been in his place when the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer spoke. If he accurately collected the right hon. Gentleman's observations, and the right hon. Gentleman really had any intention of increasing the present very heavy, and he might add very productive, taxation on railway communication, he submitted it to the House whether the right hon. Gentleman ought not, in common fairness, to give an explicit declaration of that intention at this, the earliest, moment that the subject was mooted. The House was doubtless aware of the fact that a heavy tax was laid upon, and had already been paid by, many railroads, whilst no return had been made to the proprietors upon their outlay; and if before the capital invested was capable of producing anything like a fair return, the taxes upon these undertakings were to be increased—if a struggle was to be entered upon with gentlemen who had enlisted themselves in hostility to the railroads—for his hon. Friend the Member fur Falkirk appeared always ready for such hostility—if this were to be the course, he trusted they should at least be immediately told of the intention. He hoped that there would be no such disturbance of the large and important interests engaged in providing railway communication; and if there were any such intention, he trusted that the House would not be a day longer without receiving a specific notice from the Chancellor of the Exchequer of his intentions.
 Sir R. Bateson  hoped that the project of subjecting steam vessels conveying passengers to some inspection would also be considered. They must be aware that the proprietors would run boats to the last moment that the machinery would last. He did not speak of individuals, but it was the system, and it must be so while there was so much competition. He thought, therefore, that this being the consequence of the system, a general inspection should be instituted.
 Sir R. Peel  had made it a rule, to which he invariably adhered, never to press a Chancellor of the Exchequer for the reduction of any particular tax, until he had an opportunity of observing the state of the national revenue, and of comparing the claim for the reduction in the individual case with other competing claims. He should like to compare, with the subject now under discussion, the policy of reducing a portion, at least of the duty upon raw cotton, and, in fact, of every other item of the national revenue. Whether these were taken individually or abstractedly, there could not be a doubt of the propriety of fairly considering the claims of each. He thought that the only satisfactory way of adjusting this question was, to take off altogether the duty on post-horses. There would then be a fair competition between railway and other modes of travelling. The older description of vehicles must fairly take their chance of suffering by the introduction of other modes provided by the progress of science. What the legislature should say upon the subject should be this: "We give you your chance, without any inequality of taxation. It is impossible for us to interfere with the progress of scientific improvement, but you shall have no unequal portion of taxes to contend against." It would be found extremely difficult in practice to make compensation to the postmasters by any attempt to equalize the taxation; but he hoped that, before they were called on to decide, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give them the fullest information on the subject; that, for example, they should be made acquainted with those lines of road in which
 736 d. d.,
 Sir Robert Peel  trusted, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny would allow him to suggest that if he was aware of any other instances that fell within the same principle, that he would have the goodness to mention them, and move for new writs. If the hon. Member made such a motion, he should be disposed to second it for the sake of impartiality.
 Mr. Williams Wynn,  on behalf of the Committee, wished to state, that they were appointed to consider whether Mr. Harvey had vacated his seat, or not, and it was no part of their duty to inquire into the circumstances of the cases of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, or the hon. Member for Dundee. If the hon. Member for Kilkenny was aware of any other case, it would be his duty to bring it under the consideration of the House. He could not but observe, that the present law upon the subject was deficient, inasmuch as there was no provision calling upon parties to inform that House of the appointment of Members to official situations. There were other cases, but they were passed over  sub silentio;
 Mr. Williams Wynn  brought up the Report of the Select Committee appointed to consider the papers relative to the appointment of Mr. D. W. Harvey, the Member for Southwark, to the office of Registrar of Hackney Carriages, and directed to report whether Mr. Harvey having accepted the said office has vacated his seat.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  thought, he had a good right to complain of the unfairness of bringing a question of that nature before the House without first favouring him with some notice, or without, so far as the hon. Gentleman was concerned, the slightest intimation of his intention. As it happened, however, he had had notice of this case, because his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had informed him, that the hon. Member had been making inquiries into the subject. He would meet the case by stating the real circumstances attending his appointment. It was true, that he received the appointment originally in the reign of George 3d, in the year 1796—it was perfectly true, that he had held the appointment throughout the reign of George 4th, without any new patent, under
 719
 Mr. Hutt  rose to call the attention of the House to the injury inflicted on British commerce by the duties levied at the town of Stade by the King of Hanover. As it was a subject of vast interest to the commerce of the country, he hoped he should be permitted briefly to explain the origin and nature of those duties, in order to do which he should not have to travel very far back. At the congress of Vienna, in 1815, a claim was preferred by the King of Hanover to levy upon all the ships and cargoes passing the town of Stade on their way to Hatnburgh, that great mart of commerce on the river Elbe, certain tolls or duties; which claim, amongst other pernicious measures, was admitted and sanctioned by the congress. It was subsequently referred to the convention which was held in 1821 in the city of Dresden, upon which occasion the ministers admitted the right of the King of Hanover to levy those dues, but, at the same time, required, that he should lay before the convention a tariff of the dues be proposed to levy, and that he should never increase them without the consent of the parties interested in them. Such was the brief history of the origin and existence of the Stade duties. He entreated the House to remark, that this extraordinary and unprincipled concession was made to the king of Hanover, without any advantage, right, or immunity whatever being granted by him in exchange; and that the emoluments arising from it went, not into the public exchequer, but into the private purse of the King of Hanover himself. He never could forget the conduct of the British Minister, who, for the purpose of gratifying the ambition and increasing the private income of his Sovereign had consented to a measure so detrimental to the commercial interests of this country. But there was a treaty! And, however, they might lament its effects—however, they might deplore the subserviency which dictated it, they must respect the faith of that, as of all treaties, and dare not without any indemnity, propose its abolition.
 740 741 "There is a precision observed in the wording of invoices, so as to tax the denomination of the article imported, not the nature of the article. Thus, if the word 'bales' is introduced into the invoice, it is made to pay double the duty that it would pay if called  'ballen,' spielzeug, pro tanto 742 "Two cases which have recently occurred, will serve to illustrate the practice under such regulations. The first was, a bale which contained 900 lb. of worsted yarn, and a few pounds of linen yarn as a sample, and was shipped from Hull in April last, on board the Lee, for Hamburgh. Upon the plea that this small parcel of linen yarn was omitted in the bill of lading, which only expressed the contents of the bale as worsted yarn, notwithstanding this omission made no difference in the rate of duty, and that no fraud was or could be imputed, the ship was detained until a fine had been paid. The discovery of this sample of linen yarn was made by the Hanoverian inspector, resident at Hamburgh, who has access to the custom-house there, and to all entries of goods imported. The Stade duties are levied at certain rates per package, whether large or small, and vary according to the denomination of the goods they contain—viz. a rate for manufactures or merchandise another rate for worsted or linen yarn, and a third rate for cotton twist, &c. The other case was a fine of 22 l. s. d. 743 l.
 Mr. Hutt  begged to be permitted to make one or two observations. He might leave the matter, with great confidence, in the hands of the noble Lord, who had the interest of British commerce at heart; but he could not give up the point that the King of Hanover, having become a party to a contract, had not performed it, as he had not produced the tariff, which he was pledged to do; and therefore that it was not valid.
 Viscount Dungannon  recommended his gallant Friend to assent to the amendment; and if the return, as presented, should not prove satisfactory, he could bring the subject again before the House.
 Viscount Morpeth  would not offer any obstacle to the Bill, after the great pains that had been bestowed upon it by his hon. Friend. He trusted that its details would receive great attention, not only from the House, but the hen. Members
 756
 Viscount Palmerston  was ready to admit, that the case which had been brought before the House, was one on which there appeared to be a good ground for complaint. But, at the same time, he must say, that that ground was not precisely that which the hon. Member had attempted to prove. The ground on which he thought they were entitled to complain of the conduct of the Hanoverian authorities
 744 745 746
 Viscount Ingestrie  wished to ask whether there would be any objection to produce the correspondence between the lieutenant commanding the Express packet and Commodore Douglas, and between Commodore Douglas and the British Government, upon the subject of the insult committed by a French officer upon the British flag at Vera Cruz. The noble Lord at the head of the Admiralty had not given any very precise answer to the questions put to him upon the subject; he (Lord Ingestrie) should therefore be glad if the Government would produce the correspondence which had taken place upon it.
 Viscount Ingestrie  was not prepared to say that what might be satisfactory to Commodore Douglas would be satisfactory to the House of Commons. When so great an insult had been committed upon the flag of England it was only right that the House should be placed in possession
 812
 Mr. O'Connell  followed the hon. Gentleman with great reluctance, feeling that he might weaken the admirable speech that he had made, and he would not have risen had not one view of the case been omitted by that hon. Member. The bill was introduced not only to relieve the conscientious scruples of the witness, but to benefit the ends of justice by giving his testimony to the party requiring it. It was not solely for the benefit of the Quaker, that he was allowed to make his affirmation, but for the benefit of the public, of the prosecutor, and of the prisoner. He had known cases in which the greatest evil had arisen from the want of such a bill. Thirty years ago, in the city of Cork, he defended an attorney's clerk, who was indicted for forgery, and whose defence was, that he had authority to sign the prosecutor's name. In his defence he produced a Quaker, a most respectable man, a party in the respectable house of Deacon, and Co, from whose evidence the jury would have inferred the fact of authority. When he got upon the table the Quaker refused to take the oath; the prisoner was
 827 Hear! Hear! 828
 Captain Gordon  did not rise for the purpose of opposing the motion; although there were many alterations in it, they were by no means all improvements upon the Bill of last Session. All parties were agreed on the propriety and necessity of having good and sufficient prisons in all parts of Scotland. There were, however, several parts of the bill which he did not approve of. He did not like the separate system; and he thought it hard that Scotland should be made the scene of experiments on this subject. He objected therefore to all that part of the bill which went to provide three general prisons for carrying the separate system into effect. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would consent to have the bill divided into two parts, and bring that part of it which referred to the separate system as a bill by itself and on its own merits.
 Mr. Fox Maule  had considered the proposition made by the hon. and gallant Gentleman, but he did not think he should consent to it. The case of Scotland was totally different from that of England. In England the country gentlemen had devoted themselves to the state of the prisons, and had spared no expense in bringing these establishments to perfection. The system of visiting justices was one of the best that could be adopted, in order to place those prisons on a proper and correct footing. In Scotland they had done nothing of the kind; they had a system
 813
 Mr. Pringle  protested against the statements of the hon. Member for Elgin, that the counties of Scotland had done nothing for the improvement of prisons, and that great strides had been made in England to effect that object. Great sums had been laid out by the counties of Scotland, and all of them, more or less, had made great exertions. He would refer to the report of Mr. Hill, to show, that large sums had been laid out in the improvement of prisons, and that the prisons were in good order. If the hon. Member for Elgin would consent to divide his Bill into two parts, there was no doubt but that it would be carried through both Houses of Parliament, to the great satisfaction of Scotland; and he wished to see this question settled at the earliest possible period.
 Sir George Clerk  was sorry that the hon. Member for Elgin was not disposed to adopt the suggestions that had been thrown out. He wished to see some important improvements made in the state of the Scotch prisons, but he did not think the hon. Member was warranted in stating that nothing had been done by the county gentlemen of Scotland. By the former state of the law the whole expense of building prisons was thrown upon Municipal Corporations. He was ready to support that part of the bill which made it compulsory on the counties to contribute their fair proportion of the expense of building prisons in Scotland. He thought however that it was unnecessary that the building of penitentiaries and large prisons should form any part of the bill. The noble Lord opposite had stated, that it was the intention of the Government to call upon Parliament for a vote of money to erect penitentiaries in England, and if such a course were necessary for England he could not see why it should not be adopted for Scotland. If such experiments were necessary they ought to be made at the public expense.
 Mr. Hawes  said, the object of the right hon. Baronet was to saddle on the general taxation of the country, the expense of erecting those prisons which the Scotch land-owners had for so many years neglected to build. The object of this bill, undoubtedly was, to erect certain prisons at the expense of the land-owners of Scotland, with the view of amending the system of prison discipline, This had been constantly opposed by hon. Gentlemen opposite—He recollected their opposing this bill last year, and he recollected that the great landowners threw out the bill in the House of Lords. It was proposed by the hon. Gentleman near him, and advocated by many on the same side of the House, and the only opposition made was by hon. Gentlemen opposite, on account of the little paltry assessment on their property." He wished it to go forth to the public, that the object sought was to assess Scotland to the amount of 30,000 l d An hon. Member 815 d d d
 Viscount Stormont  thought the hon. Member opposite could not have paid any attention whatever to the Act: for if he had, he could not have been so totally ignorant of all its provisions. All parties were agreed as to the defective state of the prisons; there was nothing which the landowners wished so much for as a good and substantial system of prison discipline. The landed interests of Scotland were not opposed to the objects of this bill, as far as the improvement of prison discipline went; but they were opposed to being charged with the expenses of experimental prisons.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that the landed gentlemen of Scotland considered it was injudicious that the general prison system and the local prisons—objects which were quite distinct, and which would work better separately, should be united. The aspersions which had been cast upon the landed interest of Scotland on this subject were undeserved. The bill which had been introduced last Session on the question did not reach the. Lords till August, and their Lordships felt, that it was a bill of too much importance, and requiring too much consideration to be passed then. The bill which was now before the House was varied from the bill as it came from the Lords in several important respects—and on all these points the bill ought to be opposed.
 The Lord Advocate  observed, that the large general prisons, so far from leading to an increase of expense to the country, would, in his opinion, greatly diminish the
 816
 Mr. Gillon  thought the objection to the bill on the ground of expense, came with a very bad grace from the country gentlemen of Scotland, when the fact was, that the prisons were kept up at the expense of the boroughs of Scotland. It appeared to him very extraordinary, that the Conservatives, who had been in power for many years without feeling it to be their duty to
 817
 Dr. Lushington  had listened to the speech of the hon. and learned Recorder with very great regret. It was not in that manner that measures affecting the consciences of large classes of her Majesty's subjects ought to be discussed—and this was the first time in his political experience that he had heard the Quakers, the Moravians and the Separatists, spoken of as persons of elastic consciences. Those sects might be mistaken in their theological opinions, but in their moral conduct—in their obedience to every obligation, to honesty and good faith, they were most exemplary—and when it was attributed to them by the hon. and learned Recorder that they were persons of elastic consciences—which meant a disregard of sacred obligation, which meant not being bound by moral duties and opinions of right or wrong—he knowing their sacrifices—knowing their sufferings—knowing their long endurance for conscience-sake, was bound to appeal to the House, and to the country, whether the statement of the hon. and learned Recorder was not calumnious? Now, with regard to the question before the House. How stood the law at present? A person refuses to take the oath. What is to be done? Commit him. For what? For having a conscientious scruple, which various Acts of Parliament had decided to be just and laudable in other classes of persons—scruples which might indeed be erroneous, but which he would not decide upon, as he would not, like the hon. and learned Recorder whom he could not accuse of tolerance—make himself a judge over the consciences of others. Well, the party was punished. But was the object attained? That object was to procure his evidence in the Court of Justice, and it was altogether frustrated by his refusal to take the oath. But, supposing that after having been committed, the person was to come back and express his willingness to take the oath, what would be thought of the conscientiousness of a person who first came into court saying that he had a conscientious objection to take the oath, and shortly after said, "There is such wonder-
 832 l 833
 The Solicitor-General  could not complain of the tone in which the right hon. Baronet had discussed this question, for he had stated it to be a question of the balance of convenience and inconvenience, of which he conceived the inconvenience to preponderate. In order to arrive at that conclusion, the House must consider that he was driven to the necessity of pushing the question to the extreme—a limit which he (the Solicitor-general) did not shrink from putting to the test. He was ready to admit, in the progress of society that there should be classes of persons who had a conscientious scruple in saying—"I solemnly affirm so and so," exactly the same principle which induced him now to say, he would not put the individual to his oath, would lead him to say, he would not put him to his affirmation. [ Cheers 838
 Mr. Pryme  did not see why, because the Quakers adopted a peculiar phraseology, and held exclusive observances, they should be entitled to a privilege from which the members of the Church, who only differed from the Church on the subject of oath taking, was debarred.
 Mr. Law  explained, that he did not suppose, that the noble Lord opposite had imputed to him that application of the term "elastic conscience" seriously, or in any other spirit than that of the amusement of debate. If, however, the noble Lord had so misunderstood him, or if the House generally believed that he had so applied the expression, he begged at once to withdraw it, and to say that he had not used it in any disrespect to any sect whatever.
 Mr. Law  said, that the hon. Member for Lambeth had particularly called upon him to state whether he had witnessed any difference between an affirmation and on oath in a court of justice. He had not come down with any particular case, but he begged to offer to the hon. Member and to the House the experience of
 829 830 831
 Mr. Hawes  believed, that many Members of the Church of England felt great doubt upon some of those articles, and it was the first time he had heard that it was absolutely necessary for the Members of the Church of England to consent to the taking of oaths. The right hon. Member said, that this bill would defeat the ends of justice; but he thought that when the House knew that the Chief Justice of England sanctioned this bill, that more than one of the judges also approved of it, and
 822 s d ad captandum 823 824
 Mr. Charles Wood  replied, that there certainly was a ship of war at Vera Cruz at the time, the Satellite commanded by an officer of higher rank than the lieutenant of the packet It was not in his power to say what had become of the pilot, because the Government had received no information upon the subject.
 Mr. Charles Wood  did not know that there would be any objection to produce the correspondence moved for by the noble Lord, if any such correspondence existed; but, in point of fact, no correspondence whatever (as far as the Government knew) had taken place between the lieutenant and Commodore Douglas upon the subject. Having been informed by the noble Lord of his intention to put the question, he had brought down with him an extract from the only communication which the Government had yet received—an extract from a letter written by Commodore Douglas, in which that gallant officer said—"I have also received a satisfactory explanation from the French admiral upon the subject of the pilot taken out of the Express, which was entirely a mistake on the part of his Royal Highness the Prince de Joinville, and the Rear Admiral has informed his Government of it." That was the only explanation the Government had received. It had been their intention upon the first report of the transaction to have made a representation upon the subject to the French government; but having reason to expect a full account of it from Commodore Douglas, they had thought it better to defer taking any further step till that account had been received.
 Mr. Shaw  would shortly state his reasons for voting against the bill. With respect to juries, in cases of doubtful evidence they would be disposed to lean to that party whose evidence had been given upon oath against that party whose evidence had been given without that sanction. He had heard jurors express great objections to persons who had not taken an oath. Suppose the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite to be engaged as counsel in a cause, and that he had to cross-examine a witness, and it was put to him whether he would have the witness sworn, or let him give evidence on his bare assertion, how would he act? He had no doubt, that, looking to mankind in general, and particularly to the Irish people, he would say, let him be sworn by all means. Hon. Gentlemen opposite said, that evidence might be lost, because they could not constrain a person to take an oath; but the question was, were they to endure that, rather than submit to a greater evil? They could not meet every possible conscientious objection. Then it was said, let every person be sworn according to the form most binding on his conscience. To that he agreed, but the question was, not about the form of the oath, but whether it should be dispensed with altogether. There might be a few who had these conscientious scruples, which cases might be met by such legislation, but it was of the abuse of such a law that he was apprehensive; and if they were to legislate to meet these scruples, they would open a door to more unscrupulous persons.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that when the second reading of this bill was proposed, he forbore to state his objections to it, which were of a nature that, in his opinion, ought to make the House pause before assenting to the further progress of this measure. If anything could add strength to his original objection to this bill, it arose from the observations which fell from an hon. Friend of his (Mr. Gibson), on a former occasion. His hon. Friend declared, that he considered this bill to be as much for the benefit of those members of the Church of England who entertained conscientious scruples against taking oaths, as for persons of any other religious persuasion. He heard that assertion with very considerable surprise. It was only an additional confirmation to him that the bill was not understood, and that its tendency ought to have been fully explained to the House when it was first introduced. He knew, that it had been a fashionable doctrine among some persons of late, that oaths were altogether unnecessary, and that it would be expedient for the general purposes of justice, to remove the necessity of an oath being taken to fortify a statement of facts made by the persons examined in any particular case. He would not then enter into an argument upon that question, because that was not the precise occasion when such a discussion could properly arise. But he would say this, that however objectionable it might he to make a legislative enactment of that description, he conceived that an enactment would be much more objectionable which gave a power to every individual to determine for himself, whether he would or would not be sworn in a court of justice. But that was the actual provision of the bill then before the House. He considered that such a bill was not only at variance with the precedents to which the hon. Member for Lambeth on a former occasion referred, but that the bill had a tendency to create a system of hypocrisy and fraud, and other practices
 818 bonâ fide, 819 820 821 s d
 Mr. Gibson  wished only to say a few words in answer to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, and the hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford. The first right hon. Gentleman had attacked his (Mr. Gibson's) proposition that this bill extended relief to the members of the Church of England, who were as much entitled to relief as any other part of the community. The right hon. Gentleman had attacked that proposition because, as he said, it was impossible for a person to remain a member of the Church of England, and yet object to take an oath; but he knew members of the Church of England who were admitted to her sacrament, and who participated in her services, and yet who did say that the taking of an oath was inconsistent with their conscience. He believed that there was not one Bishop who deemed it essential for a mere layman to adhere to the strict letter of the articles. Why, one Archbishop differed from another in the explanation of some of those articles, who then was to act as the infallible explainer of those articles. And did they think that to the member of the Church of England the same assistance should not be extended as was afforded to
 826
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that the hon. Member's fallacy was, in thinking, that a man who was capable of acting dishonestly would not shrink from the commission of perjury; but, swearing falsely was a crime in the minds of many a most profligate man, who would not care what falsehood he stated in simple speech, or almost what act of crime he would commit. Nor was this feeling confined to what were sometimes called the inferior or uneducated classes. Many men would state what they would not swear to—several instances happened in which men stated before Committees of that House what they would not swear to before Committees of the other House; and, where they found this difference in the conduct of men of education, what must they expect from less informed persons? A gentleman of much consideration in the country had given evidence before a Committee of that House which differed from what he had stated upon oath in the other, and when the difference was pointed out he replied, "one was only a conversation, the other was upon oath." This was the case of an intelligent, well-educated man. He could state also upon the authority of one of the Judges, but who was not at that time upon the Bench, that in a case of appeal, in which he was himself present, before the Commissioners for the Property-tax, a gentleman had stated, "that he had no return to make, he had no property;" he was subjected to much examination by the Commissioners; and his memory was assisted by a reference to a mortgage; he was asked if he had no mortgage, and he replied, "none" but when after all this he was asked, "will you take your oath of this," his reply was, "If it comes to that, I will make a return;" and that was a return of property worth 4,000 l 825
 Sir Robert Peel  said, though he might come to a very different conclusion from that of the noble Lord, yet he could not come to it without the same misgivings and doubts which the noble Lord experienced, but he was bound to decide between the conflicting advantages and dangers of this measure, and he found the balance to be against the further progress of the bill. He thought his hon. and
 835 836 837
 Viscount Morpeth  said, it must be ad-
 834
 An hon. Member  wished to ask the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of the Admiralty, whether the Admiralty had had any communication with Lieutenant Croke, relative to the pilot taken out of the Express packet at Vera Cruz?
 Lord Ingestrie  Was not aware when he last alluded to this subject, that the Express packet bad arrived in England, and he now wished to ask, why the Admiralty had not obtained from Lieutenant Croke himself, an answer as to what had become of the pilot taken out of the vessel. He also wished to know whether Admiral Baudin had, immediately on discovering the mistake of the Prince de Joinville, given a satisfactory explanation of the circumstances to the lieutenant of the packet, or whether that explanation was only made when Commodore Douglas arrived on the spot with the squadron under his command.
 Lord Ingestrie  said, he wished to know whether any written apology or explanation had been received from Admiral Baudin before the arrival of Commodore Douglas's squadron; or whether any negotiations were going on in reference to this subject?
 The Clerk  having read the following passage from the Address of the Commons in answer to the Speech from the Throne, at the opening of the Session of 1833:—
 "Our attention will also be directed to the state of the Church, more particularly as regards its temporalities and the maintenance of the clergy; that we are aware of the complaints which have arisen from the collection of tithes, and that in any change of system which may in consequence appear to be necessary we shall be anxious, without diminishing the means of maintaining the established clergy in respectability and usefulness, to prevent the collision of interests and the consequent disagreement and dissatisfaction which have too frequently prevailed between the ministers of the Church and the parishioners: we shall also be ready to consider what remedies may be applied for the correction of acknowledged abuses, and whether the revenues of the Church may not admit of a more equitable and judicious distribution," &c.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he would move, that the passages in subsequent Addresses be entered as read; and in moving the Second reading of the Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill, said he had asked the Clerk at the table to read several extracts from the Addresses agreed to by the House in answer to royal Speeches from the Throne made during past years, because he wished to point out to the House, before it entered into the consideration of this important bill, that measures for Church reform had been under the consideration of different Governments; that they were first proposed by the Administration of Earl Grey; that then, after the appointment of the Ecclesiastical Commission, they were subsequently noticed in the Speech made by the advice of Sir R. Peel during his Administration; and, lastly, that it had been before this Session, and likewise in the present year, recommended to the attention of Parliament by the Administration of her Majesty. He wished to point out these recommendations to the House, because he thought that in several discussions which had lately taken place, it seemed to be doubted whether measures for rendering more efficient the Established Church had met with the recommendations of so many persons holding high situations in the Government of the country, who had, as it were, without any
 850 l. l. l., l. l., l. l. in commendam l., 851 l. Clerical Guide 852 l., l. l., l. l. l., l. l. 853 854 l. "That the lands, tithes, hereditaments, monies and revenues, to be vested in, and paid to the said Ecclesiastical Commissioners for England, under and by virtue of the provisions of this Act, shall be, after a due consideration of the wants and circumstances of the places in which they accrue, from time to time applied by the authority hereinafter provided to the purpose of making additional provision for the cure of souls in parishes where such assistance is most required, in such manner as shall be most conducive to the efficiency of the Established Church." l. 855 l. l., l. 1. l. 856 l. 857
 Sir R. Inglis  observed, that the noble Lord having stated all the measures which had been recommended by the Church Commissioners, it was not necessary for him to follow the noble Lord through any details of the measures on which the sanction of Parliament had been obtained. It was enough for him to state, that if the present bill bad the merit of consistency with former bills, it would not be redeemed in his eyes, nor would it be less objectionable to the people. His noble Friend had begun with an admission of the great amount of spiritual destitution which prevailed and of the duty of providing for this destitution by every means which came legitimately within the power of the Legislature. This destitution his noble Friend had properly stated to prevail throughout large tracts of the country, and particularly in the manufacturing districts. To the proposition, that it was quite requisite to provide for this lamentable amount of spiritual destitution, he readily assented. Surely, however, he might admit the existence of temporal destitution in the parish of St. Giles without thereby justifying or approving the specific measures which might be proposed for its alleviation, and precisely in that spirit he would proceed to consider the propriety of administering relief to that spiritual destitution, the existence of which was so much to be lamented, having reference to the propriety, nay, further, he would say to the legality of the measures proposed. Would it, for instance, be considered justifiable that for the sake of relieving the temporal destitution in St. Giles's, the noble Lord should levy contributions from all the large neighbouring parishes? And upon the same principle, he would ask, whether, because spiritual destitution pervaded the manufacturing districts, the cathedral property throughout the country should be alienated, not only without the consent of those who held it, but without even the imputation of any crime, or an allegation that any serious misappropriation had taken place? Were they, without, at all events, the slightest proof of any such misappropriation, to be utterly deprived of the control of that property? He had always most strenuously objected to
 858 859 860 l.; l. l. 861 l. "They know not, that before the appearance of the report, the resolution to subvert the inviolability of corporate bodies, save for crimes charged and proved, or by their own consent, has ever been openly avowed and acted upon either in civil or ecclesiastical changes, within this realm. Certain it is, that on the late reconstruction of the municipalities throughout the kingdom, a measure allowed on all hands to be bold and aggressive, though their basis was enlarged and the condition of admission was popularised, the principle of perpetuity was preserved, the sacredness of property untouched, and the peculiarities of corporate bodies in no way compromised. Though the wrong done to them may be sheltered from the public eye by the obscurity of the sufferers, or the want of sympathy with objects alien to the popular feeling of the day, yet they cannot surrender the claim to be treated like their more powerful brethren, the privilege of complaint and firm remonstrance against this *Hansard, (third series) vol. xxxv. p. 19. 862 partiality of wrong, nor the hope which their respect for the Commissioners still keeps alive, that it has arisen from the perplexity of ill-defined claims and a misconception of the strength of their cause, rather than a carelessness of justice, or a disposition to spare the strong at the expense of the weak." l. l. 863 864
 Mr. Stanley  hoped he should be permitted to say a few words respecting certain hardships in the dioceses of North Wales; which he trusted would induce the noble Lord to modify his bill. The dioceses in North Wales had been formed from benefices in various times, all of them of comparatively recent date, the earliest being in the year 1681. The tithes belonging to parishes containing fully one-third of the whole population of Wales, had already been alienated. In the diocese of Bangor, the Bishop and Rector drew their tithes from a district containing 16,000 inhabitants. There was a parish in Anglesea, which formerly was attached to an archdeaconry, that was afterwards assigned by the late Act to the bishopric of Bangor. Some time ago this parish was not populous—now it contained 7,000 souls. It produced 900 l. l. 1., l. l. 865
 Mr. Hume  said, there was a slight difference between the relative positions with regard to the Church of the hon. Baronet the member for the university of Oxford and himself, the hon. Baronet being always ready to protect its abuses, he to put them down. Ever since he had sat in that House the abuses of the Church of England appeared to him to be amongst the greatest connected with British Government; and he had never ceased, and never would cease, to point out what appeared to him to be the reason why that Church was the cause of evil instead of good. It was an establishment intended to promote everything that was useful in society; instead of which it had been engaged in fostering prejudice and misapplying the means within its power of benefitting the people. Although he had opposed the noble Lord on former occasions, he begged to say, that it was not so much to the nature of the proposed reform he objected, as that the noble Lord should reform by piecemeal, and begin at the wrong end. He now said, that those who would sanction the payment of 139,000 l., l., 866
 Mr. Estcourt  said, he could not allow a bill like that to go to a second reading without protesting against a great many of its provisions. He admitted, that some of its provisions went to carry out certain of the recommendations of the commissioners, but at the same time there were many other provisions which were the production of the noble Lord, or of her Majesty's Government. The noble Lord in the course of his speech had referred to a petition presented to that House which bore signatures from every college at Oxford, and had described the tone and character of that petition, as though it were the wish of the petitioners to prevent any alteration in the Estab-
 867
 Viscount Dungannon  observed, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had gone much further than the hon. Member for the University of Oxford had described him as going, for he declared himself desirous of seeing Church property applied to other than ecclesiastical purposes. He confessed, he should be sorry to see the Church dependent for its support on such provision as it could derive from the liberality o I the hon. Member for Kilkenny. If the bishops were reduced to the incomes which that hon. Member recommended, whence could the charities of the
 868
 Mr. Law  did not desire, at that stage of the proceeding to trouble the House by raising any objection to the measure, but he begged it might be understood, that he by no means acquiesced in the principles intended to be embodied in some of its provisions. He thought, that he spoke the sentiments of the constituency which he had the honour to represent, when he said, that they wished to see a salutary reform in the Established Church; that they wished to see it rendered more useful for the purposes of religion, without any infringement of individual rights; neither did they object to means being adopted for promoting religious education through the agency of those who held Church preferment; but he could never bring himself to agree to a measure so sweeping as that which was then before the House; he should reserve his opposition, however, till an opportunity presented itself of dealing with the details in Committee, some of which he considered to be most dangerous to the rights of property and to the ancient institutions of the country. When the proper time came he should move either a resolution or an instruction to the Committee.
 Mr. G. Palmer  observed, that the bill of the noble Lord did nothing for the security of the property left behind. He further observed, that he felt a decided objection to putting into the hands of the commissioners the property of the suppressed prebendaries and canonries.
 Mr. White  was surprised to find the friends of the Church coming forward to oppose a bill of this nature, brought in by the Secretary of State, and sanctioned by two Archbishops, and several of the rev. Prelates: he was as great a friend to the Church as any hon. Member opposite, but he could not avoid saying, that it was impossible for him to support the pluralisms and sinecures existing in the Church,
 869
 Lord Clive  trusted, that the noble Lord would postpone the Committee on the bill until alter Easter. As the Sessions in Wales shortly came on, and many Members from the Principality would be absent, it would be very desirable, that the Committee should be postponed.
 Lord John Russell  would propose, that the bill be committed on that day fortnight. He would propose then to go into Committee on the bill, so that if no motion was moved by the hon. Members opposite, the bill might be got through the Committee before Easter; but if any opposition were intended to be offered, he would propose, that the bill be reported, and that the further consideration of the report be postponed until after Easter, for the purpose of hearing any observations opposed to it. He did not wish to press the bill in the absence of the noble Lord or any other Members but he could not agree to put off the Committee on the bill for so lengthened a period.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that after the sentiments and opinions expressed by hon. Friends of his, for whom he felt sincere respect, he was bound, under the influence of other obligations, to give his support to the bill. In the observations which he proposed to make, he should confine himself to the principle of the measure, which he conceived to be this, that in the present state of the Church establishment it was desirable, that some portion of the cathedral revenues should supply those acknowledged deficiencies in the spiritual instruction of the people to which reference had frequently been made in that House. The principal provisions of the bill then before them were not materially different from
 870 871 animus l. l. l.; 872 873 l., l. l. 874 875
 Mr. Plumptre  said, that if any thing could have dissatisfied him with this bill it was because Members on the other side of the House said it did not go far enough. He thought they ought to learn how far those hon. Members wished to go, and where they meant to stop. His feeling against this bill was so strong, that had there been any intention to divide the House, he should have voted against the second reading.
 Lord Ashley  was glad to perceive that the statements just made by the hon. Gentleman opposite completely justified him in having so repeatedly urged the case of the factory children on the House. The Bill introduced by the hon. Gentleman was a very great improvement on the existing Act, and even on the bill of last year. He completely agreed with the principles, and though he differed as to some of the details, he would not then detain the House by any argu-
 887
 Mr. Maule  begged to explain, that under the present Act, twelve hours a-week schooling were necessary, but under this bill, two hours a week at a Sunday-school, in addition to ten hours during the other days would be sufficient, and the attendance at the Sunday-school would not be compulsory.
 Lord Ashley  resumed.—He was most anxious that the existing Act should be improved and carried out according to its intentions. If that were impossible let it be repealed. If the existing measure were, however, really carried out, it would be a great benefit to children employed in the factories. He had other suggestions to offer, which he would reserve for another stage of the bill.
 Mr. Hindley  said, that at all events the hon. Gentleman had been very fair and candid in his address to the House. He had said a good deal about agitation that had been got up about this measure, but then he said nothing about putting it down. He said that this measure would settle the question for some time. He should go into committee with that intention; but if the hon. Gentleman thought he could stop the agitation by a measure which was characteristically a Police Bill, he entertained himself with the most fantastic idea that ever entered in the mind of a man, much less of a statesman. He would not now go into the principles or details of the measure, but would merely confine himself to one or two points. The hon. Gentleman said, that as regarded penalties the existing Act was insufficient, yet in the measure he now introduced, he gave the mill-owners an opportunity of getting off with a fine of 5 l., l. 888
 Mr. Slaney  said, that having for a long time felt a deep interest in this question, he had much pleasure in now offering his thanks to his hon. Friend, for the great improvements proposed in his measure. He agreed with the noble Lord that there was something wrong in the details, but he was certain that if the spirit of the measure were generally carried out, it would effect many beneficial alterations, and do much on behalf of the poor factory children. He should not advert to the details of the reports of the inspectors, but it was quite clear that the bill which the House before agreed to was not adequate to prevent children of improper age from being set to work, or all those who might work from being kept too many hours employed, as could be proved in a number of instances, with which he would
 889 890
 Mr. Baines  said, the principle of the bill had been very clearly explained by his hon. Friend. It was, that children under thirteen years of age should work forty-eight hours per week, or eight hours per day. If, instead of eight hours a-day, the time had been limited to six hours, he should deem it an improvement, because it would divide the day into more definitive parts. A great deal of confusion had arisen from eight hours being proposed instead of six, because the latter would divide the day into two equal parts. With respect to the agitation of which they had heard so much, the country, he contended was never more free from it. In fact, there was none. Not a single petition had been laid before the House. There were no petitions from either the master or the workmen. In reality they were now legislating under very different circumstances from those under which the bill was first enacted. Then the whole country was in a flame, but now the agitation had subsided. Nothing should interfere with the free course of legislation, and if they did their duty as they ought, they should not suffer any interference from either of the parties interested, either the employers or the employed. At the same time he must say that bill was an anomaly, because he found that only one class of people in the country was placed under these restrictions. The factory masters were placed under restrictions, but there were others who should be restrained in a similar degree. Were not the colliers obnoxious to these restrictions—nay in that city where so much of humanity, so laudably prevailed, where last year the wives and daughters of Members of Parliament were solicited to interfere on behalf of the factory children, if they went into the shops where the milliners and dress-makers of London were employed, they would find a great many more heart-rending abuses than in these factories. It might be said, that was not an abuse because the number of persons concerned was not great. He
 891 Question." 892
 Mr. Brotherton  could not agree with his hon. Friend, that no legislation was required upon this subject. All his experience proved, that legislation was not only necessary, but highly beneficial. The distinction was very clear between the case of factory children, and milliners, and dressmakers. In factories, both old and young, both weak and strong, Were obliged to work together, and at the same time—if one part of the machinery was stopped the whole was stopped; and of course every person belonging to the factory was for the time out of employment. With respect to trades not dependant on machinery, if one workman was taken ill his place might be supplied by another, or his loom, or whatever he might work at, might stand idle—but with spinning factories the case was very different. It was perfectly clear from the number of frauds which had been practised under the late bill, that new legislation was necessary. It was perfectly clear, that there was something radically wrong. He was always in favour of a simple law upon this subject. It was not his object to oppose the second reading of the bill, but in Committee he would hold himself at liberty to propose certain amendments, which, in his opinion, would simplify the bill, and render it more easy of being carried into effect. As his hon. Friend, the Under Secretary for the Home Department, had consented to make alterations in the bill as to the time, he trusted, that he would also make alterations in other respects. He had always been in favour of a Ten Hours' Bill, and he thought that if they were to assimilate the working of cotton manufactories to that of silk mills, it would greatly improve the bill. He should like, that the age should be raised to twenty-one years, according to the regulations proposed by Sir John Hobhouse's Bill, the best which had ever been passed by the House. When the
 893
 Mr. Langdale  wished to speak to that clause of the bill which related to education—that clause was contained in the former bill, but had never been carried into effect. The bill now before the House gave great power to the inspectors, as the children attending factories were obliged to attend the schools approved of by them. Religion must be introduced into their education, and he trusted that some precaution would be taken, that the children would be educated in their own religious persuasion. It was expected that the children would attend the schools erected by the factory masters. In the manufacturing districts, there was a great difference of religion, and he trusted that his hon. Friend would make some provision by which the children would be educated in the principles of religion professed by their parents.
 Mr. Chalmers  considering the Bill totally uncalled for, would move, as an amendment, that it be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. Wallace  said, that the bill had been introduced with a view of improving the fisheries generally throughout Scotland; he believed it would be productive of great good, and that it met with the sanction of the whole country; under such circumstances he must divide the House upon the bill.
 Lord J. Russell  thought, the more regular course would be to nominate the committtee to-morrow.
 Mr. C. Wood  replied, that he had stated before, and be now repeated again, that he had reason to believe, from a private letter which had been received, that the next despatches from Commodore Douglas would bring a much more detailed account of the transaction than the short notice which had already arrived. He had stated that this was the only communication on the subject which had been yet received, and he thought it did not become his noble Friend, or the House, to press the matter further at present.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he had only to repeat for the third time that night, that the Admiralty had received, through Captain Plumridge, a copy of a letter from Lieutenant Croke, addressed to the consul at Vera Cruz, in explanation of the transaction.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, what he had stated was, that there had been no correspondence on the subject beyond what he had read to the House on a former evening. The letter written by the lieutenant of the packet to the British consul at Vera Cruz had not been received through the proper medium of communication, as that letter ought to have been addressed to Commodore Douglas, whose duty it would then have been to have laid it before the Admiralty. Under these circumstances, he had not more particularly alluded to that letter on a former evening, and he must say, that while their information was so imperfect, the matter ought not to be agitated in the manner it had been. Commodore Douglas had stated, that he had received a satisfactory explanation from the French Admiral, and he thought, that until they had received fuller information from that officer the House of Commons ought not to agitate a question of this description. Commodore Douglas stated, that on the day he arrived at Vera Cruz, Admiral Baudin had given the most satisfactory explanation.
 Mr. C. Wood : Yes.
 Mr. C. Wood  could only repeat what he had before stated—namely, that the extract which he had read on a former evening, from the letter of Commodore Douglas, (who, as Lieutenant Croke's superior, was the only proper medium of communication between that officer and the Admiralty) contained all the informa-
 845
 The Speaker  observed, that it was the practice to give notice of all the names proposed to be appointed on a select committee. It was for the House, however, to say whether, this being in the nature of a question of privilege, the practice should be dispensed with.
 The Speaker  said, it was for the House to decide, whether, as in the case of Mr. Harvey, notice should be given in, or whether the rule should be dispensed with.
 The Lord Advocate  was thankful to his hon. and learned Friend, for bringing forward his amendments. He had shown a good disposition, as he always did, but in this case he had shown the most complete ignorance. If he had spent only a month in personal attendance at the courts, he would not have made half the statements
 878 l. l. s. d. l. Wallace.
 Mr. Hume  thought, notwithstanding the complaints made against him by the learned Lord, that he would do him the justice to admit that he had given him and his predecessor, Sir William Rae, due credit for the great good they had effected in the alteration of the law in Scotland. The learned Lord had said, that he knew nothing of the report: for the purpose of convincing the learned Lord that he was wrong, he had brought down that report, and from it it appeared that the judges sat, upon an average, only one hour and a half a day; in such a state of things was it to be said, that their salaries were to be increased? He should support the motion of his hon. Friend.
 Mr. Wallace  opposed the motion. He said it carried into effect none of the improvements which had been recommended by the committee which had sat upon the subject. Of that committee he had been a member; and Lord Eldon, Lord Brougham, Dr. Lushington, and Mr. O'Connell, who were examined, gave it as their opinion, that the great length of the pleadings in writing and printing ought to be much reduced; but that was not effected in this bill. There was another point very objectionable; and that was, that the Lords Ordinary often acted as solicitors and barristers, in preparing the cases they were afterwards as judges to decide. It was most improper that judges should have any other than judicial duties. He put it to the learned Doctor, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, whether it were not most improper. The learned Doctor when asked that question before the committee had declined giving an opinion—but had said to the best of his judgment it was very im-
 876 877 l. l. l. l. l. l, l. l.
 Mr. Gillon  felt bound to oppose the bill of the learned Lord, because, in his opinion, there was not one clause in it which was not very objectionable. The learned
 879
 Captain Pechell  wished to be informed whether the Express packet had arrived in England?
 Captain Pechell  said, the next question he should ask would be a very distinct
 846
 Mr. J. Jervis  said, it certainly had been his intention to give notice of a motion for a committee on Thursday next; but when he came into the house it was intimated to him by a friend of the right hon. gentleman, that it was the right hon. gentleman's intention to request the opinion of the House on his particular case. The right hon. gentleman had not varied the facts at all; however, after what had passed, if the House entertained any doubts, an inquiry should take place. It was a question relating to the acceptance of office, and for that reason one requiring examination. He should, therefore, move the re-appointment of the same committee which sat on Mr. Harvey's case, with the exception of the right hon. gentleman, for whose name he would substitute that of the right hon. baronet (Sir R. Peel) opposite, if he would consent to serve. If it suited the convenience of the House, he would make his motion at once. The hon. member accordingly then moved, "That the papers relating to the appointment of the right hon. C. W. Wynn, to the office of the steward of the lordship of Denbigh be referred to a select committee, and that they be directed to report their opinion whether Mr. Wynn has vacated his seat by his acceptance of the said office." The form of the motion was the same as that used in the case of Mr. Harvey, and he should also move the same names, substituting Sir R. Peel for that of the right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Jervis  would consult the feeling of the House as to whether he should move the appointment of the committee at once, or give the names in, and move the nomination to-morrow.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that when he heard the hon. Gentleman, the member for Kilkenny, the other night, give rather a mysterious intimation that there were other cases, which, if the same rule of justice were applied, would disentitle the parties concerned to a seat in Parliament, he then
 848 primâ facie
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, it would he remembered that on Thursday night last the attention of the house was called by the hon. and learned member for Chester to the circumstances under which his re-appointment to the office of steward of the lordship of Denbigh had taken place. He then gave an explanation which he thought was sufficiently satisfactory to the House. But he had since understood, that the hon. member was disposed to ask for further examination into the case, and having also seen in certain publications and newspapers that doubts had been thrown
 847
 Mr. O'Connell , seeing the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies in his place, wished to know whether any steps were intended to be taken to stop the effusion of blood in Canada. The insurrection had been put an end to, but the effusion of blood continued.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to record his opinion upon this subject. He totally differed from his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, in supposing that this bill was calculated to limit the extension of knowledge. He thought, on the contrary, that it would instigate—that it would give a stimulus to—the advancement of knowledge; and that it would be a mode of making the people become acquainted with the arts and sciences, and all the improvements that might, from time to time, take place in them, by providing that authors who devoted their time and talents to those subjects should meet with an adequate reward. If there was any property solely and exclusively confined to one individual it was literary property, for in the making or procuring of every other description of property the assistance of others was required. Why riot, then, apply the principle of fixity in one case as well as the other? If a man caused a house to be built for him, he could leave it in perpetuity to his children. Why not extend the same advantage to a man who by the greatness of his genius, and the power of his intellect, had enlightened, afforded happiness to, and increased the knowledge of, his fellow-men to a great extent? The question was, in his humble opinion, worthy of this enlightened age; but he felt that it was not creditable to them to hesitate one moment in giving perpetuity to literary property. He had the utmost pleasure in supporting the measure.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that he had always felt an invincible repugnance to the present measure. The hon. Baronet who had just sat down told the House that the arguments of the hon. Member for Bridport applied to all copyrights. In a certain sense that was true, but not practically true. His own opinion was, that books should be had for the benefit of the public at the lowest possible price, and therefore no greater inducement should be held out to authors than was necessary for securing the production of the desired works. Experience had proved, that a certain advantage must be given to authors, to that extent he was willing to go, but no further; and therefore, if it could be shown that the present term of copyright was insufficient to remunerate the author, he should not object to its extension. One anomalous instance had been referred to—that of Mr. Wordsworth; surely it would not be said that one case of that nature ought to overrule so extensive a principle as that for which he had been contending; indeed, if his hon. and learned friend had proposed to give a remedy by means of an application to the Privy Council, as was incident to patents, the proposition would have been materially altered; but, do what they might with it, he could never bring himself to support any measure which went further than to give authors the  minimum Paley's Evidences Natural Theology 941
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that, differing as he did from the principles laid down by his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-General, and the conclusion to which he had come, he did not think it would be fair to himself or to the House if he did not state the grounds on which he should vote for the bill. They had got an admission from his hon. and learned Friend, that some law of copyright was essential. He contended it was a question whether the amount of protection at present given was enough, and the recital of the facts which his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Talfourd) had made to the House that night, proved, that, under the existing state of the law, the protection was not adequate. No one could be more eager and anxious for the diffusion of knowledge than he was, but, in the first instance, that knowledge must be created, and if men of the highest eminence were left without adequate reward, the inducement to apply literary talent to the creation of knowledge was diminished. But again, with respect to the cheapness of books? What had been the phenomena going on under their own eyes? Had books become cheaper or dearer since the extension of the copyright in 1814? Was it not within the knowledge of every individual, that books had become cheaper since that time, were daily becoming cheaper, and thus becoming more accessible to the mass of mankind. It was the interest of the persons who published, whether he were an author or a bookseller, to print the books in a cheap shape. The same
 942
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  in a Committee of Ways and Means, proposed a resolution for a transfer of aids.
 Mr. O'Connell  considered that he had a right to say, that an effusion of blood had taken place. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that the death of sixteen persons by the hands of the law was not an effusion of blood. Now he was of opinion, that the putting to death one person more than was absolutely necessary was an effusion of blood.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to assure his hon. Friend and the House, that he was most anxious to do all in his power to render the accounts as simple as possible. He would take that opportunity of stating to the House that he had not in any manner departed from the old practice in making out the public accounts. The suggestion that he had done so was unfounded.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the mystery he had formerly alluded to respected tile form of the accounts,
 945
 Lord John Russell  had certainly stated it was his wish to introduce the bill before Easter, and still hoped he might be enabled to do so, though at this moment he could not say confidently that the bill could be introduced before Easter. It was not intended to propose the second reading immediately after Easter; nor was it proposed to allow sufficient time to elapse for communication with Canada. The second reading would not come on for at least three weeks after Easter.
 Mr. Baines  had no hesitation in saying, that it would be difficult for the House to adopt a measure more calculated to be injurious to the spread of knowledge than the present. How stood the question? Simply thus,—that the author who possessed the right of publication for twenty-
 936 ex post facto 937
 Mr. Labouchere  considered that the language of the hon. and learned Member was rather disproportioned to the real facts
 920
 Mr. Warburton  could not permit the House to divide upon so important a subject without offering a few remarks upon it. The bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman was just such a bill as they might expect from an assembly of carpenters or shoemakers legislating upon their own affairs. It was a bill framed entirely for the parties interested, at the same time that he thought it would fail in its object. But, inasmuch as it would be detrimental in another point of view, he should most strenuously oppose it. It was in evidence in reports which were before the House on this subject, that the pecuniary reversion to authors was exceedingly small, while their parting with that reversion was giving to the public what was of inestimable price to the public. The House would see, therefore, that the value to the public was immense, while the pecuniary value to authors was exceedingly small. What more reasonable compromise could there be made? Supposing the bill to be in operation, were hon. Members certain, that under peculiar circumstances—circumstances which were frequently occurring to authors—they would neither receive advances nor part with their works to the
 938 939
 Mr. Hume  was aware of the existence of that law. It passed when Mr. Herries was Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he perfectly well recollected objecting to it at the time; but he was told that his alarms were groundless, and that no person would add to the funded debt of the country without consulting Parliament. That was so far true, for up to last year it had never been acted upon; and he did complain, that, with an increased expenditure, the national debt and burdens of the country had thereby been augmented. He hoped the present Session would not pass without a correction of the evil. One Chancellor of the Exchequer might do one thing, and another another; they might go on expending the resources and increasing the funded debt of the country without the knowledge of Parliament. Such a state of things could not be permitted to continue, and, with the view of bringing the matter fairly before the House, he should shortly move for similar returns to those he had called for last Session.
 Mr. Hume  thought this was a matter well deserving the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The charge made against the right hon. Gentleman, however, was not for altering the public accounts, but for having last year so managed the accounts as to add 2,000,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  would take that opportunity of giving notice that upon an early day
 944
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the House would not be led away by the eloquence of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. He would join in all that hon. and learned Gentleman had said in praise of literary men, but he could not agree
 934 935
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  then rose to move the second reading of the Copyright Bill. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, after the attention which, in past Sessions, has been rendered by this House to the interests of literature, as affected by the law of copyright, an attention gratefully acknowledged in the petition which I have just presented, I shall best discharge my duty by reminding you, without preface, of the question which we once more are called on to decide, and by stating the position in which it stands, and the materials which we have to assist us in answering it. That question is, whether the present limitation of copyright is just? and I will sum up my reasons for
 921 "That the term during which the law secures to authors the profits arising from the productions of their own industry and genius is insufficient to provide for the fair reward of works written to endure; that the extension of the term proposed by this bill would encourage such compositions; that it would enable individuals to devote their powers to the lasting benefit and delight of mankind, without the apprehension that, in so doing, they shall impoverish their own descendants; and that, while it would tend to the profit only of the greatest and the best of those engaged in literature, it would confer dignity and honour on the pursuits of all." 922 923 924 925 926 Essay on Taste, l., History of the Reformation in Scotland; a History of the Church of Scotland, 927 928 929 930 931 l., 932 "Lay of the Last Minstrel, Marmion, and the Lady of the Lake," 933
 Sir R. H. Inglis  expressed an earnest hope that the House would permit its judgment to be influenced by the sound reasoning which they had heard on the subject of the present bill, and not allow themselves to be led away by the emphatic manner in which they had been addressed
 940
 Sir Robert Peel : Does the noble Lord contemplate actual legislation on the subject of the government of the two provinces?
 Sir R. Peel  wished to ask the noble Lord what course he proposed to pursue with respect to the bill, for the future government of the Canadas. He had understood the noble Lord to say he would introduce the bill before Easter, but would postpone the second reading till after Easter. He wished to know whether the noble Lord intended to fix the second reading for an early day after Easter, or whether, he intended to communicate with the government of Canada before proposing the second reading.
 Sir G. Strickland  felt great pleasure in seconding the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Kilkenny. Such had been the case on several committees on railway bills. The question, however, really before the House was, whether or not the adoption of the resolutions of the right hon. gentleman below him (Mr. P. Thomson) would make the matter better; in his (Sir G. Strickland's) opinion, these resolutions would make it worse. It was true that under this plan there would be a sprinkling into committees of members from a distance, and that sometimes justice might be done, but still, on the whole, he was convinced that greater dissatisfaction would be created than at present existed. He, therefore, was of opinion it would be better to follow the example set by the House of Lords, and exclude local interests altogether from private committees. Parties locally interested in a question were excluded from serving on the jury by whom that question was to be
 972
 Mr. Aglionby  supported the amendment. The original resolutions before the House interfered as much as the amendment with the constitutional privileges of members of that House, and interfering with those rights, it was proper to obtain the fullest extent of benefit as proposed by the amendment. He thought the public were much more prejudiced by the admission of local interests than by their exclusion. He was in hopes, however, that some medium plan might be adopted. He objected to place persons in that situation, who had an interest in the question quite as binding as a pecuniary interest. Would the house admit, that there existed a necessity for the exclusion of Members having a direct pecuniary interest in the decision of the questions before the committee. If so was there not an equal reason to exclude others who had an interest though it might not be a direct pecuniary interest? There were interests which biassed the minds and feelings of men quite as much as a pecuniary one, and he would wish to exclude all Members on whose minds you could trace an interest at all likely to bias them, so as to prevent their coming to a just decision, whether those interests were consequent upon their connexion with a particular locality, or upon any other causes. The answer to the first question put by the committee to the Duke of Richmond, would illustrate his meaning on this subject. The noble Duke replied, when asked as to the practice of the House of Lords upon this subject, that the feeling of the House of Peers was so
 974
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that in order to qualify that resolution, which was very objectionable in its present form, he should move as an amendment, "That any Member whose constituents may have a local interest in any private bill shall be a Member of that committee, but without a right to vote."
 Mr. Aglionby  objected to it, as giving to the committee of selection a new jurisdiction, and one which in most cases was likely to be extremely invidious. Any Member of the House, whose name might not be included in the list, was to apply to the committee of selection to have it placed upon the list, alleging, as a reason, that his constituents had a local interest in the bill to be sent before the committee, and the committee of selection, according to this resolution, was to take upon itself to decide the "importance and reality" of such interest before they could allow that hon. Member to serve on the committee. This was imposing a duty upon the committee of selection, likely to be attended not only with annoyance, but very often with odium, and making them do what the whole House refused to do.
 Lord Stanley  said, it was undoubtedly the wish of every member of the committee that impartial Members should give their attendance, but there could be no sort of question that if Members serving on those committees upon private bills were left at liberty to choose the committees on which they were to serve, they would attend those only in which they felt an interest, and therefore perfect impartiality or indifference was not to be expected. It was the general opinion in the committee which had taken this subject into consideration and reported to the House on the 25th of this month, that a great deal for the improvement of committees must be done by private understandings and arrangements amongst the Members of the House themselves. The first proposition on the subject was, that Members willing to serve on committees should be requested to enter
 984
 Mr. Aglionby  observed, that if they succeeded in excluding the interested Members, they might limit the committee to a very small number indeed.
 Mr. Ward  said, as the present committee very much resembled that in the case of the hon. Member for Southwark, he thought it indispensable, before the motion was put, that an imputation which had been thrown out by that hon. Member (whom he was glad to see again in his place) in his last address to his constituents, should be explained. In that address, the hon. Member used terms which
 985
 Mr. Hume  thought it was not altogether regular to call upon an hon. Member to explain what appeared in the public journals. If they once admitted the principle, that Members must be answerable for what was reported in the public papers, or in public committees of that House, see what a situation hon. Members would be placed in. The speech might or might not be correct. His hon. Friend said, it was an address, but even then they had nothing to do with what occurred out of the House.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, there might be some doubt as to the expediency of putting the question, but he believed in principle and practice, that it was quite right. He contended, that when any statement appeared calculated to prejudice that House, it was their duty to call upon the hon. Member in his place to state whether what appeared in the public papers had been spoken by him, or whether he avowed or disavowed the expressions; that was done in the case of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. When the noble Lord made his motion he had no knowledge of the matter except from the public papers; that was the origin of the proceedings which had occupied the House so long. An objection was now
 986
 Mr. Harvey  having been called upon, said, if the House considered it right, that a Member of that House should be called upon to explain an address to his constituents, he should not interpose any difficulty whatever. He had only hoped, that they had more important matters to engage their attention. As he understood the observation of the hon. Member for Sheffield, he had been called upon in courtesy, and he had no objection to give any explanation that was required. The hon. Member, however, should not have been altogether unmindful of what was due to him, for although he had been sitting in the House since four o'clock, and although the hon. Member had been there nearly for the same period, it was a mere accidental suggestion about five minutes since which led him to understand, that the hon. Member was about to mention the subject, or that he cared anything for what appeared in the public papers. As he had been called on by the hon. Member for Cockermouth to avow or disavow these words, he would at once; and he was not one of those who would take shelter under one thing or another; he would at once avow and explain what he had said. If he was wrong, no one was more ready to
 987 988
 Mr. Goulburn  regretted very much that the hon. Member who had moved the Committee, had seen reason to depart from what he understood was the original intention of the House, viz., to submit the question to the same Committee as before—he was surprised to find the substitution of the names of two Gentlemen to whom he had no objection farther than as it infringed on the principle. The hon. Member was proceeding on the supposition that two Members of the previous Committee could not attend, and that it would be therefore necessary to substitute other names, but he doubted whether that would justify him in appointing other Members. He thought it was their duty not to make any alteration in the original understanding of the House for the accommodation of any particular Member on the one side or the other. He had really considered the question as one which they were not to deal with as a party or political one. The present Committee was a new construction of it, more than one Member being added; and he felt it impossible to
 989
 The Attorney-General  said, he had suggested the substitution of another name for his, as it would be impossible for him, however anxious to do his duty, either in this House or before a Committee, to be present. He should be engaged for three days. After that time, he should have no difficulty, but he thought the House to determine as early as possible.
 Lord John Russell  believed, that neither he nor the hon. and learned Gentleman intended to ask any Member proposed, whether he should attend the Committee or, not. He thought, in a case of this kind, which involved the seat of a Member of the House, there should be no delay, especially as the investigation was not one likely to last for weeks or months, but would be decided in two or three days. He should move the appointment of the original Committee.
 Mr. Jervis  had no objection; however, he could not substitute Mr. O'Connell for Sir Thomas Acland, nor Mr. Harvey for Mr. Cresswell, because he had not given notice to that effect. He was indifferent about the opinion of the Committee—what he wanted was, to have the facts of the case clearly developed and laid before the public. Let no one accuse him of acting unfairly in this matter. He was willing to undertake the entire responsibility of the proceeding. However, for the sake of expediting the business, if those opposite would strike out of the eight Members which their side of the House furnished, Sir Thomas Acland and Mr. Cresswell, he would strike out Mr. O'Connell and the Attorney-General. Then the Committee would consist of eleven which he moved accordingly.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that if there had been a house on Tuesday, the Committee would have gone off well. He was glad of the suggestion of the hon. Member for Chester, but some of the arrangements that had been proposed were open to inferences unfavourable to the even flow of justice. He would have the House remember, that some persons were as much alive to their proceedings, as others were sensitive to addresses. When the right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire said, that it was unnecessary to propose a Committee because he was satisfied the Memfor Southwark had vacated his seat, it
 990
 Mr. O'Connell  had given notice that he would, that evening, move that a certain petition from Dublin should be taken into consideration, and that he would also move for leave to bring in a bill. The petition to which he wished to call their attention, was in favour of that bill. He did not mean to trouble the House with any observations on that petition, but would proceed forthwith to move for leave to bring in a bill to assimilate the franchises of Parliamentary electors in England, Wales, and Ireland, and to render the same more extensive. That was the object of his present motion. It was one, perhaps, of little importance to the House, but it was one of the greatest and most paramount importance to the people of Ireland. He had been given to understand, that it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to oppose his motion for leave to bring in such a bill; and he would therefore state, as briefly as possible, the reasons why he conceived that the House ought not to concur in that opposition. The principle on which he asked for leave to bring in this bill, was the legislative union now existing between Great Britain and Ireland. If that union had any principle to support it, it was the identity of interests between the two countries. If there was not that identity between them, then it was the union of master and slave, and not the community of free citizens belonging to the same state. Having taken that principle as the basis which was to enable him to ask for leave to bring in his bill, he felt great regret at finding that the Government was determined to oppose its introduction. It seemed to him to be an authoritative declaration, that Ireland was not to have the benefit of the union, for that was stated at the time of forming it, to be a complete participation of privileges and franchises
 991 992 993 
 
 Population. Electors. 
 Carlow 73,958 1,248 
 Louth 93,225 1,025 
 Kildare 108,424 1,244 
 Leitrim 141,524 1,388 
 Sligo 162,482 941 
 Kerry 255,579 1,243 
 Mayo 306,228 1,350 
 
 Population. Electors. 
 Longford 112,558 1,465 
 Wicklow 121,557 1,740 
 Westmeath 136,872 1,395 
 Waterford 142,714 1,494 
 King's County 144,225 1,526 
 Fermanagh 147,364 1,640 
 Meath 176,012 1,850 
 Roscommon 249,613 1,776 
 Donegal 289,149 1,448 994 
 
 Londonderry 207,848 
 Westmoreland 42,464 
 Excess in Londonderry 165,384 
 Comparative franchise— 
 Westmoreland 4,392 electors. 
 Londonderry 2,172 
 Excess in Westmoreland 2,220 
 
 Comparative population— 
 Downshire 337,876 
 Westmoreland 42,464—or 6 to 1. 
 Excess in Downshire 295,492 
 Comparative franchise— 
 Westmoreland 4,392 electors. 
 Downshire 3,130 
 Excess in Westmoreland 1,262 
 
 Comparative population— 
 Mayo 366,228 
 Westmoreland 42,464—or more than 8 to 1 
 Excess in Mayo 323,764 
 Comparative franchise— 
 Westmoreland 4,392 
 Mayo 1,350 
 Excess in Westmoreland 3,042 
 
 Comparative population— 
 Tipperary 380,435 
 Westmoreland 42,464—about 8 to 1. 
 Comparative franchise— 
 Westmoreland 4,392 
 Tipperary 2,369—nearly 2 to 1. 
 Excess in Westmoreland 2,023 
 
 Comparative population— 
 Galway 381,564 
 Westmoreland 42,464—more than. 9 to 1 
 Excess in Galway 339,100 995 
 
 Comparative franchise— 
 Westmoreland 4,392 
 Galway 3,061—near ⅓ less in Galway. 
 Excess in Westmoreland 1,331 
 
 Comparative population— 
 Cork 720,000 
 Westmoreland 42,464—about 14 to 1. 
 Excess in Cork 677,536 
 Comparative franchise— 
 Westmoreland 3,392 electors. 
 Cork 2,835—about ⅛ less. 
 Excess in Westmoreland 557 
 
 Tyrone had a population of 301,325 
 The electors were 2,151 
 Flintshire had a population of 29,329 
 The electors were 2,151 996 s l 997 s s s s s 998 in limine 999 l l 1000 l
 Mr. V. Stuart  said, it was his intention to vote for the motion. He was of the same opinion as the Member who had just sat down with regard to the 40 s s
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he would not detain the House long. The hon. and gallant colonel opposite seemed perfectly satisfied with himself, and he would he sorry to disturb his complacency. He would face him readily. He did think that the noble Lord had held out something like a word of promise to the ear, but he was disappointed, for he had completely broken it to the sense. He had talked against finality, and then had substituted another word for it. His hon. Friend, the member for Dundalk had well described the trivial importance of using the word settlement, instead of finality. The learned sergeant, however, was worthy of a moment's attention. He had read a passage to show his (Mr. O'Connell's) explanation of an Act of Parliament passed in 1832—the Irish Reform Bill, and had said that he had arraigned the judges for their misconstruction of that Act. In order to show the
 1011 s s l 1012 1013
 Mr. O'Connell  said, his calculation was on the constituency of the old borough, and on the population of the old borough.
 Mr. Pryme  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would at least be willing to extend the rights of citizenship to those foreigners who, after residing a certain time in that country, had taken the oaths of allegiance.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  denied altogether the applicability of the principle on which the hon. Gentleman had rested his argument. Nothing was easier in that House than for any one to say, that public opinion was to decide the question, and thus to declare, that he himself was the oracle of public opinion. He would recal to the recollection of the hon. Gentleman a matter not of very remote occurrence, to which the hon. Gentleman himself was not indifferent, and concerning which he and certain hon. Members took upon themselves to announce dogmatically that they were the expositors of public opinion. It was upon a question of much more interest to the country than whether Wednesdays and Fridays in Lent ought to he observed by the theatres or not; he alluded to the question of the transmission of letters through the city of London on the Sunday. The hon. Gentleman, and those who acted with him, took upon them, in reference to that question, to declare, that
 1037 1038 Warburton:
 Mr. D'Israeli  said the right hon. Gentleman wished apparently to get rid of the question by putting it into the two-penny post office, but he would assure the right hon. Gentleman there was no similarity between it and the delivery of letters on the Sunday. He would endeavour to recal the attention of the House to the proper bearing of the question. As he had been almost the only individual on his side of the House who had supported the hon. Member for Finsbury the other night, when he proposed a motion in relation to this subject, he would justify the vote he had then given. He hoped he had as profound a respect for the established religion of this country as the bishop of London, He was not sure, indeed, that he should have
 1039 1040
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that no other or different arrangement had been made now than when the gallant Member's own experiments on the lighting were in progress, except that as the former experiments had given rise to great expense, he had been very cautious, and had determined that no experiment
 1045
 Colonel Conolly,  though pleased that the noble Lord objected to the motion, yet could not help regretting, for the sake of Ireland, that the noble Lord should have held out hopes, that the time would come when such a motion would succeed; when, in fact, the noble Lord would be content again to play second fiddle to the hon. and learned Member. As the noble Lord had not had firmness enough to resist his learned Friend, it became his duty to state the evil consequences that would arise from the timidity of the noble Lord, and his want of firmness in resisting a thing that was so fraught with evil to Ireland. He had said, over and over again in that House, and would repeat it, that of all the curses that ever was inflicted on Ireland, the 40 s 1009 l l l
 Mr. Elliot  observed, that he for one would be very glad to sit upon such a committee without voting. He should wish to be there for the purpose of pleading the cause of his constituents with the local knowledge he necessarily possessed of their affairs, and he should wish to abstain from voting, lest it might be supposed that in doing so he was influenced by any bias or partiality.
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that the hon. gentleman the Member for Finsbury had found fault with him for not having addressed reasons and arguments to the House when he last brought forward this question; and it appeared that it was to that silence on his part that they owed the very amusing and facetious speech in which the hon. Gentleman had again introduced the subject to their attention. He confessed that, notwithstanding the amusement thence derived, it was rather to spare the House a discussion of the kind that he (Lord J. Russell) did not enter into arguments upon the subject when it was last before the House; because, although the subject might be made as amusing as any other, he did not think, that a question which affected the established religion of the country was a fit one to be discussed as a matter of entertainment, He found that that observa-
 1026 1027 1028 1029
 Lord John Russell , said, that after what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman, he was induced to trouble the House again for one moment. The hon. Gentleman had said that he (Lord John Russell) was bound to bring in a bill to make the observance of Lent more strict than it was now. He (Lord John Russell) had already stated that if it were thought advisable by Parliament to make a change in the law, he for his part, should have no objection to do so. But that while the law continued to be what it was at present, he felt bound to advise the Lord Chamberlain, who was one of the Queen's servants, he (Lord John Russell) being also one of them himself, to act in conformity with that law.
 Lord Teignmouth , did not think it necessary to trouble the House with more than one or two observations, after the very able and satisfactory speech of the noble Lord—a speech which he ventured to say was in accordance with the feelings of the majority of that House, and of all the good sense of the country. He would only ask the hon. Member for Finsbury one question—whether he would put a dinner, given by the Bishop in fulfilment of that mandate, which ordered that he should exercise the rights of hospitality [ laughter 1030
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was sure that the House would have sufficient confidence in the Gentlemen composing the committee of selection to be content with their decision upon the subject referred to by the hon. Member. It was necessary to place the power of selection somewhere, and he could not see in what better hands they could place it.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  had no objection, in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Cockermouth, to amend this resolution, by the omission of the words, "importance and," making the resolution run thus—"if the reality of such interest shall be established to their satisfaction." Further than that he could not consent to alter it.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  objected to any such proposition. He was sure no Member of that House would like to attend a committee whose decision would affect the interests of his constituents when the House decided beforehand that he was an unfit person to vote.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the report of the committee which had been appointed to consider what alterations were necessary in the mode of conducting the Private Business of Parliament. In doing so, he wished to state, with reference to the proceedings of that committee during the last and present Sessions of Parliament, that the Members who had been selected had sat and deliberated with the utmost attention day after day on this most important subject, and after hearing evidence and maturely investigating all the plans which had been submitted to their consideration, had given in a report to the House, and upon that report the resolutions which he now proposed to move were founded. Those Members who had at all attended to the subject would, he was persuaded, allow that the present mode of conducting the private business of the House was not satisfactory, that it could not insure the confidence of the public in their proceedings
 966 967 
 "1. That the present distribution of counties in the several lists, for the purpose of forming committees on private bills, prepared under the direction of the Speaker, as prescribed by the resolution of the 19th of April, 1826, has been found not to answer the object for which it was framed, and that the same be discontinued. "2. That, with a view to give effect to the opinions and resolutions contained in the report of the select committee on private business, presented on the 25th inst., it is expedient, that new lists be prepared under the direction of the Speaker, reducing considerably the number of Members above the line in the lists as now formed, excluding altogether those below the line, and having regard to the new divisions of counties as regulated by the Reform Act. "3. That a committee of selection be appointed, consisting of the Chairman of the Standing Orders Committee, and of the Chairman of the committee and of the three subcommittees on petitions for private bills, and of whom three shall be a quorum; and that the said committee of selection do report from time to time to the House with respect to the proceedings on private bills. "4. That no Member whose name shall be on the list prepared under the direction of the Speaker shall be entitled to attend or vote unless he shall have previously made a declaration, in such form as shall be prescribed by the committee of selection of his willingness to serve throughout the proceedings of the committee on the bill referred to the list to which he belongs. "5. That any Member who is not included in the list directed to be prepared shall be at liberty to make special application to the committee of selection, alleging, that his constituents have a local interest in any private bill in progress, and the committee shall have power to add the name of such Member to the list, if the importance and reality of such interest shall be established to their satisfaction. "6. That the committee of selection shall select and add to the list such number of Members not locally interested in the bill in progress, and in such proportion, as in the circumstances of each case shall, in their judgment be necessary."
 Mr. Goulburn , seeing the Under Secretary for the Colonies in his place, wished to put a question to him relative to certain disturbances which it was rumoured had broken out on the frontier of Caffraria. It was stated, that a conflict had taken place between the emigrant boors at Port Natal and the Government troops, and that the soldiers were nearly all destroyed, and the officer in command and the son of the governor killed. He therefore wished to be informed, as these rumours had created much anxiety, whether the Government had received any information confirming or contradicting the reports to which he had alluded.
 Mr. Labouchere  was aware of the anxiety created by the rumours to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded, and he regretted he was unable to give any satisfactory information on the subject, as the Government had received no despatch from the colony since the time those disturbances were stated to have taken place. The last despatch from the governor was dated one day earlier than the accounts in which the reports of the conflict were contained, and so far from that despatch containing anything from which a confirmation of those reports could be inferred, they afforded every reason to believe, that no such conflict had taken place. Perhaps it would be satisfactory to the House, that he should read the last letter which had been received from the governor, and which contained the latest information which the Government possessed relative to the state of the colony.
 965 "Cape-town, December 28, 1838. "My dear Lord Glenelg,—As the vessel is now weighing anchor for England, I have only time to give your Lordship a few lines by her to say, that within this hour I have received despatches from Major Charteris, dated Port Natal, the 12 instant, and a private letter of the 14th instant. All the troops, stores, guns, &c., were landed, and no sick, or accident of any kind. The boors had some time before sent a command against Dingaan. Major Charteris had sent a message to their commandment, Pretorius, to try and persuade him to return to Port Natal, but he feared his messenger would not be able to overtake him in time. Major Charteris had found the boors in much distress. I will forward the whole of his despatches, &c., by her Majesty's ship Wolf, which will sail on the 1st or 8d of next month. But, as I had half-an-hour only, I could not get my official despatch ready, and therefore wrote these few lines just to set your Lordship's mind at ease, as various reports had been spread concerning the failure of the expedition, and which may arrive in England before this reaches you. "I am, &c., "GEORGE NAPIER."
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he would relate to the House a case which was quite in point. While the business of a railway committee was in progress an hon. Member gave his constant attendance, and voted on a certain side. After the bill had passed both Houses, and when the shares had risen to a premium, the solicitor writes to inform him that there was a certain number of shares at his disposal, and the hon. Member puts the profits in his pocket as the reward of his diligent attendance and favourable votes. [Loud cries of  Name, name.
 Mr. Warburton  wished to make this remark—that while Members having a local interest were obliged to declare they would serve throughout the proceedings, Members not having a local interest—that was to say, men of whose impartiality there was no doubt—were not called upon, under this resolution, to make that declaration.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that as the noble Lord had said the Lord Chamberlain was bound by law to enforce the observance of these days, the noble Lord ought to show, that if the Lord Chamberlain were to issue an order to the theatres, that they might perform on Wednesdays and Fridays he would be doing an illegal act. It was not what an Archbishop or Bishop might say that constituted law. Without any statement from a Bishop or an Archbishop they knew very well that which the noble Lord had already told them, that it was an old custom. It was an old custom, they all admitted: and all that the noble Lord had said in defence of continuing this practice was, that a Bishop and Archbishop had told him that they were against a change, and in favour of the custom. That was the whole substance of what had fallen from the noble Lord; and upon that it was, that the
 1036
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that having been alluded to by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he begged to offer a short explanation. It had been stated, that on a division in the committee he (Mr. Fresh-field) had voted against the exclusion of local interests. Now, if the hon. Member had attended the committee a little more regularly than he did, he would have been enabled to make a more correct statement to the House. In the last session of Parliament strong evidence was adduced before the committee which sat on the subject, showing the inconvenience of the present system, and one single plan for the cure of that inconvenience was brought before the committee. That plan had been discussed, and it was stated another for the same object would he brought before the committee. The lateness of the period of the session prevented that being done, and the committee had before them the single question "shall we adopt the plan for the exclusion of local interests or shall we not?" Now, he was so strongly convinced of the inconvenience of the present system, that in his then view of the subject he should have been ready to recommend the plan suggested to the House, rather than leave things in the way in which he and the committee found them. But the subject was afterwards fully discussed, and he believed that it was not according to the opinion of any member present, conceived to be safe to recommend that plan to the House; and if the hon. Member would refer to the minutes of the proceedings of the committee, be would find that no division took place on any such question. The question, in short, was never brought to a decision.
 973
 Mr. Leader  observed, that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), had treated the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, as if it related only to a matter of merriment. Much as he (Mr. Leader) had been entertained and amused by the very admirable speech of his hon. Friend, he begged the House to remember that the question they were arguing was not merely a matter of amusement, but a question which affected the livelihood and subsistence of several hundred industrious and deserving people. It was a question which did not so much affect the great actors as the mechanics and operatives attached to the theatres, whose pay depended upon the nights of performance. The great actors, "the stars," might go to other theatres, which were not shut up, or might go "starring" into the provinces where the people were not so very puritanical as to think it wicked or wrong to go to a theatre on Wednesdays or Fridays in Lent; but those who really suffered, the humble operatives belonging to the great theatres, had no opportunity of obtaining employment elsewhere on the days when the doors of these theatres were closed. He confessed he was astonished to hear the noble Lord speak of this motion as calculated to do mischief to the established church. He would not charge the noble Lord with hypocrisy, but he feared it would appear to the country very like hypocrisy to talk of the established religion being hurt by the opening of the theatres on Wednesdays and Fridays, when they know how those days were spent by persons in the very highest walks of life. When the noble Lord talked of applying the argument of the hon. Member for Finsbury to Sunday as well as to Wednesday and Friday, he begged to remind the noble Lord that there was no ground of comparison between those different clays of the week. Sunday was regarded by the Protestant church as a day of religious observance and of rest from labour—Wednesday and Friday, if regarded at all in a religious
 1031
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion. He thought it most unjust, that those in power should maintain such restrictions on the poor, which they in their own persons disregarded. And he trusted the noble Lord would see the justice of doing away with these restrictions, while the court and the nobility were constantly acting in contradiction to them.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the attention of the House had been for a series of years directed to the endeavour to correct the abuses consequent upon the manner of bringing forward private bills. He merely referred to hon. Members to ask them whether they were not all aware of the
 968 969 970 971
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  would not occupy the attention of the House for many minutes. He had two observations to make, one of which applied to the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, the other to the noble Lord who had just sat down. But before he proceeded to these he must express his admiration of the manner in which the former had abandoned the petition. [ No, no. 1004 s s s "Do you think raising the qualification to 10 l "Would the qualification of 10 l 1005 l l l "What do you mean of sacrifice:—The sacrifice by so much income; the landed proprietor, when he makes the lease, makes it at a rack-rent in 99 cases out of 100. "You stated that many persons would be willing to make a sacrifice; who are the persons who have the sacrifice to make?—The land proprietors. The landlord making the lease would have to make the sacrifice, if he constituted the freeholder of 10 l l l l l l 1006 l., l l l l l l l s l
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  rose to move "that it is the opinion of the House, that during
 1021 1022 Morning Post, Morning Post, 1023 Morning Post 1024 1025 l
 Mr. T. Duncombe  observed, that poor people who were unable to employ counsel would be deprived of any aid before committees if they had not their local members
 979
 Mr. T. Duncombe  replied, and observed that a question had been put to him by the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone (Lord Teignmouth), which, as far as he (Mr. Duncombe) understood it, was simply this, whether he would place a bishop's dinner on the same footing as a theatre full of prostitutes. He felt it would be insulting as well to the House as to the
 1041 1042 Charles the Twelfth, the Maid of Switzerland, and the Vampire. à la Valentino, 1043
 Mr. Greene  thought that the duties of the committees were strictly judicial, and he was satisfied that in the country, from one end to the other, there was great dissatisfaction at the working of these committees. He would ask for what purpose they called parties before the committee with their counsel and their witnesses, which assumed a strictly judicial form, if they were then to be told that Members had local interests by which they were to be vote; that every argument of counsel and the whole strength of the evidence given were to be passed by, and that Members were to give their votes in the teeth of this evidence? He was satisfied, however, that this was the case at present. Let them take, for instance, a question between two lines of railway; and where there were rival lines they might pretty well tell, on looking round the room, how the different Members would vote. One witness examined before the committee, and speaking of the chairman of these private committees, said that he never knew an instance in which the chairman was moved by the speech of counsel or the evidence of witnesses. They ought to look at this in a public light, and not with a view to private interests. The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had asked, who was to determine what private interest was?—but by the resolutions as agreed to by the committee, there must be a selection in which this question would arise; so that if there were any difficulty in the amendment it was not obviated by the resolutions. Another point from which the present system was to be viewed was, that
 978
 Mr. Redington  said, the hon. and learned Sergeant had made no reply to the statements of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. The hon. and learned Member was wrong, said the hon. and learned Sergeant, in arguing as if population had been made the basis of the Reform Act; but how far was the hon. and learned Sergeant himself correct in his statement of the principle of the Reform Act? Why, that the basis of the Reform Act was property, But in reality, every one knew, that the basis of reform was the compound one of property and population combined; and therefore the learned Sergeant erred quite as much, when he made this statement, as the hon. and learned Member
 1007 1008
 Mr. Blackstone  said, the hon. and learned Member had stated the number of constituents for the old borough of Wallingford before the passing of the Reform Bill; but since then a large district had been added, and the population was now between 7,000 and 8,000. The hon. and learned Member had very correctly stated the number of constituents to be between 300 and 400, but the population was very much greater than he had stated.
 Mr. Mackinnon  seconded the motion. He thought in doing so, he should be like a small tender following in the wake of a line of battle ship. He did so, because he hoped it would clear up a point, not generally understood in the country, with regard to the franchise under the Reform Bill; and he wished to ask the Law Officers of the Crown, how the law stood on this point. In the first place, he was not aware that there was anything in the Reform Bill which stated a foreigner should not have a vote for a borough. He believed there was nothing in that bill which said that an individual, who occupied a tenement of 10 l onus probandi
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  could not ever assent to the principle of selection, because he thought it liable to the greatest
 983
 Mr. William Roche  said, that reluctant as he felt to disturb our existing connection, provided it could and would be maintained with honour, justice, and reciprocity towards Ireland, he could not hesitate supporting every measure calcu-
 1010
 Sir F. Pollock  then rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to
 1020
 Sir F. Trench , in rising to postpone his motion till this day, wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether any arrangement had been made with Mr. Bude for the fresh lighting of the House, without any consultation with the House.
 Sir F. Trench  said, that a new expeririment could be suggested only because of the presumed failure of the plan already employed. He had heard, from persons engaged in different parts of the House, that his own plan had given satisfaction, and before it was condemned he must apply to the House to give it fair play, by restoring one-third of the number of lights which had been removed from the lustres, and by colouring the inside of the shades pale green. Before he sat down, he must warn the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, of the dangerous doctrine he had laid clown, that because he had allowed one change, he was necessarily to permit another. He believed that in domestic life, as well as in public affairs, it was wrong to suffer a fresh change to be made because another had been allowed.
 Captain Pechell  replied. He denied that he had proposed, or wished to introduce, so sweeping a measure as had been asserted by the hon. and learned Gentleman. The object he had in view, was to lessen the expense of denization; but he certainly had no intention of submitting such a proposition as the hon. and learned Gentleman alluded to, to the House.
 Captain Pechell  said, the case to which he was about to call the attention of the House would show the great inconvenience that had resulted from the course which a great majority of the House had
 1016 1017 l l., l l
 Captain Pechell  said, that the unsatisfactory result of excluding local Members from their committees could not be better illustrated than by adverting to the position in which the town he represented
 977
 Mr. M. Philips  thought the amendment of the hon. Member for Cockermouth would be exceedingly inconvenient. If a railway bill were introduced, for instance, and ordered to be sent to a committee, and it was intended that the railway should pass through five or six counties, he should be glad to know if the committee or the greater part of it was to be composed of Members who could only act the part of dummies? The proposition, in his opinion was extremely absurd.
 Mr. Ward  said, the right hon. Baronet had laid down a broad principle. He stated, that it was his conviction, that the two days set apart by the ritual of the Church ought to be observed in Lent, and expressed in strong terms his approbation of the conduct of the noble Secretary for the Home Department in enforcing the observance of those days. Now would the right hon. Baronet permit him (Mr. Ward) to ask him whether he was not to-morrow going to preside at a great public dinner? On a Friday, be it observed, and that in Lent. [Sir  James Graham: 1035
 Sir J. Graham  feared, that the time had come when any humble support which
 1033 1034
 The Attorney-General  would feel much pleasure in giving the best answer he could to the several questions that had been put to him. In the first place, it had been asked what alteration had been made by the Reform Bill respecting the rights of aliens? He answered—none at all. The law, in their case, had always remained the same, and an alien had no right to vote any more than to have a seat in Parliament. The next question was, on whom did the  onus probandi 1019
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the exercise of moral influence was the chief want, and it was to impartial and indifferent Members they must look for the exercise of that influence. In calling on such Members to declare whether they would serve or not, their assent subjected them to no penalties in case illness or any other sufficient cause prevented their attending; there need, therefore, be no difficulty about Members giving an assurance of that kind. Balancing the difficulties with which the matter was surrounded, he thought it would be best to place Members free from local influence upon the same footing as the others, subjecting all to the same rule. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman opposite would consider this suggestion, and see if it could not be advantageously acted upon.
 Sir R. Peel  rose merely to discuss the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, as to whether or not it would be right that local interests, as they had been called, should be excluded from committees on private bills. In the first place he must say, that he doubted the constitutional right of the House to say to a constituent body of Englishmen, "We will proscribe a whole class of Members from serving on such committees; we tell you, that the Members you have selected not only from a confidence in their principles on political matters, but from their knowledge of the interests of your respective neighbourhoods, shall by the vote of us (the House of Commons) be prevented from exercising that latter duty, which you so thought them qualified to discharge." Now, it was establishing a most important precedent, to adopt a resolution excluding a whole class of Members of that House from perforating their duty. And what had been the argument in favour of this great and serious innovation? In the first place, the hon. Member for Kilkenny said, that the questions and matters arising before committees on private bills were strictly of a judicial character. He doubted and denied that fact. It was true certain committees were judidicial. Election committees were, or ought to be, purely of a judicial character, and therefore they afforded an admirable reason why local interests should be excluded from those committees. Again, the committee on standing orders was of a judicial character, having to determine whether, in the case of each private bill, the rules and regulations of the House had been complied with. But he denied, that the considerations mixed up in a pri-
 975 976
 Viscount Dungannon  had observed with satisfaction the somewhat extraordinary profession of regard made by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) to the established church. He only hoped that all the acts of which the noble Lord might be the promoter during this or any ensuing Session of Parliament, might prove the truth and sincerity of his professions. The noble Lord had certainly expressed himself in strong terms that evening in favour of the Established Church, and he was not sorry to hear him speak in such a strain. Although he believed there was no one in that House who more strongly adhered to the cause of the Established Church than he (Viscount Dungannon) did, and always should do; yet he had ever been opposed to the measures that had been introduced for the better observance of the Sabbath, because he considered it unjust to have one law for the rich and another for the poor. He believed, that the people of this country were disposed by habit and education to be religious, and he would not attempt to render them more so by oppressive legislation. Therefore, although it very seldom happened, that he was found voting in the ranks of the hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial side of the House, and as little as any one with the hon. Member for Finsbury, he could not but feel, that upon the present occasion it was an absolute and gross absurdity to maintain the necessity of closing the theatres in the precincts of Westminster on Wednesdays and Fridays during Lent. whilst the theatres on the other side of
 1032 in toto,
 Lord Mahon  thought the House should consider it, having in view another important subject which would shortly come before them—namely, the trial of controverted elections. Under the bill of his right hon. Friend the Member for Tam-worth, they would have a second committee of selection; and he was very much disposed to think that those two committees would be found incompatible, and would frequently clash. Each might select the same individual; and in that case he would ask the House who was to decide? It was a question which he submitted ought not to be considered without reference to the subject of controverted elections, which, as regarded this particular feature, was closely connected with it.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that notwithstanding the repudiation by his hon. and learned friend of all professions, and what he termed lip-service, he could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that he should have risen with far more alacrity and pleasure than he now did, had it been his task to signify to the House his compliance with the hon. and learned Gentleman's motion. In so doing, he certainly should have acted more in conformity, apparently at least, with the views which he had ever entertained, and which when an opportunity occurred, he had ever endeavoured to act upon, in reference to the mode in which it behoved the Legislature to deal generally with questions of Irish policy. The propositions of the hon. and learned Gentleman were in many instances founded in truth. With such impressions and such feelings as these, he might, reasonably enough, be asked how it was that he was not prepared to assent to the introduction of the measure. He felt that this motion, both as taken in itself, and in connection with several other correlative questions, was of a nature which rendered it the imperative duty of Government not to leave any room for misapprehension or uncertainty about it. He deemed it would be most unwise and improper to raise unfounded expectations, by assenting to the introduction of a measure, which he hereafter might find himself under the harsh necessity of refusing. Supposing that Government had quite made up its mind on the subject, it would be most undesirable to have the time of the House taken up by fruitless discussion without any practical result being attained. He was far from wishing to assert in favour of any Act of Parliament a claim which it would be
 1001 1002 s 1003
 Mr. Lucas  rose and said, that before the Speaker left the Chair, he wished to say a few words. The public, more especially the Irish public, had reason to complain of the manner in which they had been treated by the Government in respect to the railways in Ireland. It would be in the recollection of the House, that two years and a-half ago, a Commission was appointed to make certain inquiries with regard to railways in Ireland. He was not one of those who was disposed to quarrel with that Commission; on the contrary, he thought the measure likely to promote the object in a very desirable manner. But what he complained of, and what the Irish public almost universally complained of, was, that no intimation could be obtained from Government as to what course they intended to pursue. The Commission became void by the demise of the Crown, and a new Commission was issued by her present Majesty. On the 20th of October, 1835, the Commission was appointed, and ordered to report on or before the 31st of March, 1837. The report was very considerably delayed, but it was eventually given in the month of July, 1838; and since that time there had been no possibility of getting any information from the Government as to what course they intended to pursue. Three courses were open to the Government on the subject. They might have said, that they would take the making of the railways into their own hands, or that they would have nothing to do with railways, and that they would confine themselves to opposing those that were not sanctioned by the Parliamentary Commissioners; or, thirdly, they might have taken the middle course, and have given certain assistance to those railways which had been recommended by the Commissioners, and have refused to support any others. He knew, personally, that no effort had been spared to obtain an answer from the Government on this subject; and he knew, also, that no answer could be got
 1052 1053 l. 1054
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the hon. Member had complained, that the Government had taken too much time in determining the course they would pursue on this question,
 1055
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  said, he had a complaint to make of a different nature from that which had been raised by the hon. Member who had preceded him from that (the Opposition) side of the House. The House was aware, that a committee had inquired on the general subject of railways; over that committee the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade presided, and it was attended by a great number of Members, in whom great authority was placed. That committee made a report to the House, and when last year he (Mr. Hinde) brought forward a motion on the subject of a particular railway, the right hon. Gentleman had quoted that report against his motion. Now, nothing could be more decided than that the terms of that report were against any proposal that could emanate from the noble Lord opposite (Viscount Morpeth) in the committee for which he had now moved. He would read that portion of the report which had reference to the subject of railways in Ireland: "With regard to Ireland, when any great works had been commenced, it would he possible that some
 1056
 Mr. H. Grattan  said, that the charge that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin pressed the subject upon the Government was one of those claptraps to which he should not have supposed the hon. Member would have resorted. He denied, that the matter was pressed on the Government by the hon. and learned Member, and he hoped hon. Gentlemen would have some regard to the feelings of independent Irish Members, and not suppose, that nothing could be done for Ireland but at the instance of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin.
 Mr. H. Hinde  observed, that be had stated the matter as one of fact within his
 1057
 Mr. O'Connell  remarked, that the hon. Member laboured under a most extraordinary delusion. He believed the noble Lord was not in the House when he presented the petition in question, which was in favour of a general railway measure. So far from his having on any occasion interfered with the Government on the subject, the fact was the reverse. He had attended a meeting of his constituents held in Dublin, at which the Lord Mayor presided, and which was attended by Lord de Vesci and several other noblemen and gentlemen, and resolutions were proposed to which an opposition was got up. He (Mr. O'Connell) argued the question against that opposition, and succeeded in getting the meeting to agree to the petition, but from that hour to the present he had not had the least communication with her Majesty's Government on the subject. It was unbecoming a Gentleman of the independent character of the hon. Member opposite to draw such inferences and make such observations.
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  wished to know, what expression he had made use of that was unbecoming. If there was one word personally offensive to the hon. and learned Gentleman, it was understood contrary to his meaning. His accusation was not against the hon. and learned Member, but against her Majesty's Government, for adopting one plan, when he (Mr. Hinde) had submitted his motion to the House, and one entirely different when a similar point was pressed by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. He should move, by way of amendment, that the part of the report of the committee relating to railways in Ireland be read.
 Lord J. Russell  rose to speak to the fact of the accusation which had been made against her Majesty's Government. The accusation of the hon. Member was not founded on the merits of any plan which his noble Friend was about to bring forward, or on any knowledge, that the plan was not a good plan, but, determining not to listen to what his noble Friend might have to say, the hon. Member had resolved not to learn the merits of the plan, but to state it was brought forward, because it was suggested by the hon. and learned
 1058 Hinde: 1059
 Mr. H. Hinde,  in explanation, said, the charge he made against her Majesty's Government was, that when he made a proposition last Session, which the Chancellor of the Exchequer thought was contrary to the recommendation of the committee in the report which he had just now read, that report was urged as conclusive against his motion; but now, when a motion was brought forward by the Government in the present Session contrary to that report, which he defied them to deny, they threw aside the report as not binding on them.
 Colonel Perceval  concurred in the opinion, that the recommendations of the commissioners were regarded with great suspicion in Ireland. The commission had first been issued during the reign of his late Majesty, in consequence, it was true, of an address from the House of Lords, and on the death of the late King it was necessary that commission should be renewed. Now, in the original commission, which he bad read to-day appeared these words:—"That with a view to ascertain the best lines between any principal places in Ireland which it might be advisable to connect by railways, and for which works joint-stock companies might hereafter apply to Parliament." Implying, that joint-stock companies were contemplated. But in the renewal of the commission these words were left out, and he wished to know upon what authority that omission had been made. That circumstance had increased the suspicions existing in Ireland, and he trusted the noble Lord would be able to satisfy the House by what authority those important words had been left out.
 Lord J. Russell  confessed, that he was not aware why those words had been left out. He was responsible for the first commission, and likewise for the renewal, but he did not remember, that his attention had been called to any alteration in the renewed commission, except that be had desired it should be limited in point of time. He, however, would make inquiries
 1060
 Mr. Redington  said, that on referring to the report of the committee to which the hon. Member for Newcastle alluded, it appeared, that the committee were of opinion, that a general system of railways might be proper for Ireland.
 Viscount Morpeth : Now that I am permitted to go into committee, to state what it is intended to propose on the part of the Government, it will clearly be convenient for the consideration of the subject, and will certainly be just, prior to the condemnation of the plans we intend to bring forward. I feel conscious, however, that the proposition which I shall submit to the House, notwithstanding the slight indication to the contrary that has ruffled the short preliminary discussion, can have no tendency to excite political feeling or acrimony, inasmuch as it has for its sole object that which I am sure is common to all parties, both in and out of this House—to promote the practical and, if I may be allowed to use the term, the material interests of the Irish nation. Yet I confess that I do feel much; and I am not aware that on any previous occasion I ever felt more, of the suspense and anxiety which might naturally accompany the introduction of a measure on the most ambiguous and tempestuous subject of party warfare. This feeling I attribute partly to my own conviction of the great importance of the subject, and my unaffected sense of the slight and most inadequate justice that I can render it, inasmuch as, considering the great extent, the great variety, and the complexity of all its bearings, it might require, and would well deserve, the most undivested and unoccupied attention, whilst I have been able to confer upon it only the gleanings of a scanty leisure. However, I feel that the circumstances under which I bring this proposition forward will tend materially to relieve me from much of the burden and much of the responsibility which would otherwise attach to it. The circumstances are well known to every Member of this House, that in consequence of an Address which was unanimously voted by the other House of Parliament a commission was appointed by his late Majesty, which was subsequently renewed in the present reign, and taking notice of the variation between the wording of the two commissions alluded to by the hon. and gallant Member opposite, I must say that it was not effected through
 1061 1062 "Most Gracious Sovereign—We, your Majesty's most dutiful and loyal subjects, being deeply interested in the prosperity of Ireland, and deeming it of the utmost importance to her welfare that the Poor-law Act of the last Session of Parliament should be followed in the next by measures for the general improvement of the country, most respectfully solicit your Majesty's gracious attention to the subject. "It is not for us to specify particular undertakings, but we beg leave to express our anxious hope that the report lately made on railway communication in Ireland may be taken into serious consideration. "We do so under the persuasion that the promotion of works of public utility in Ireland would not only prove one of the safest remedies for her wants, but, by encouraging commerce and increasing her means of contributing to the exigencies of the state, most essentially benefit all parts of the empire. "November, 1838." 1063 1064 * * 1065 l l l l
 Mr. Redington,  seconded the motion, and congratulated the noble Lord on the statements he had made. He had the highest respect for the zeal and talent of the Railway Commissioners; but while he admitted that they had given the most important information respecting three provinces in Ireland, they had almost entirely misrepresented or omitted to make mention of the other province, that was Connaught, his native place. The western part of Ireland had not come in for its fair consideration on the part of the Commissioners, like the southern and other parts of Ireland. The whole province of Connaught had been completely past over by the Commissioners; they had not proposed to lay out a single line there, for they had not made any surveys or taken any proceedings for that purpose. The Commissioners had not dealt fairly with the people of Galway.—He felt bound, however, to admit, that there was one paragraph in the Report of the Commissioners which must be considered candid in the extreme; he alluded to that part of the Report in which the Commissioners stated that there were certain parts of Ireland into which they had not thought it necessary to make any investigations. He thought it was the duty of the House, before they adopted the present measure, to see whether railways could be introduced with great benefit into the other parts of Ireland which the Commissioners had not referred to. With regard to the general principles involved in the measure proposed by the noble Lord, that the Government should take the place of private enterprise in such a country as Ireland, there existed a very high authority against it; that authority stated, that when Governments interfered with private enterprise they interfered with that which neither did the country or the Governments any benefit: he however, was not one of those who thought that when Government interfered with private enterprise they would not succeed. If he wanted a proof of that he had only to refer to both statements of the noble Lord
 1082
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the very progress of this debate as far as it had gone afforded an illustration which confirmed the doubts he had always entertained of the policy of departing from the great public principle of non-interference of government with private enterprise. First, however, let him observe, that if he opposed the adoption of the contrary practice, let it not be supposed that the ground of his objection would be the expense which the measure would be likely to cause to England; that contributed nothing to his opinion on this subject. On the contrary, once show him that the proposed measure would benefit Ireland, and the expense would not deter him from assenting to it. But he greatly feared that every proposal for the carrying out of a line of railroad would expose the Government to enormous difficulties, from the opposing interests of the proprietors of estates contiguous to the different lines. An instance of this had already presented itself in the present debate, for the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, the very first speaker who had addressed the House on the subject, being a resident of one part of Ireland, at once rose in his place, and charged on the promoters of the measure partiality and injustice towards a large district. The hon. Member declared that Connaught had been overlooked, and Ulster also. [Mr.  Redington " No 1083 l l l 1084 1085 1086 1087 onus 1088 1089 Chancellor of the Exchequer: cadit quœstio 1090
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he would trouble the House with only a few observations on the present occasion, as the resolution then before the Committee was one on which a bill was to be founded, and when that bill was introduced, there would be several opportunities for future discussion. He could not, however, allow the present occasion to pass without assuring the right hon. Member for Tamworth—and he said it with the most sincere respect for the right hon. Baronet's high talents and character—that he had never in his whole life heard a speech which astounded him more than the speech which
 1091 1092 1093 minimum 1094 1095 1096 l. l. 1097
 Mr. O'Connell  thought there was one objection of the right hon. Gentleman which had not been answered by the Chancellor of the Exchequer—that which related to the limited nature of this grant. The right hon. Baronet had very distinctly shown that they could not avoid taking under their protection all the railways, if they agreed to this grant. That was exactly his objection. He thought it unfair to the rest of Ireland, that one particular line should be adopted, especially as they were not asking a shilling of the public money. It had been a very common practice to vote absolute grants for the formation of public works; half the expense of a road had often been defrayed by the public; but here no grant at all was asked, nothing was sought but the security of the public credit for raising the money. The fee simple of every county in Ireland was mortgaged for its repayment. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir Robert Peel) said, that what Ireland wanted in order to have these railroads made was tranquillity, and what was the instance he had adduced to prove the success that might attend the efforts of private speculation. That of Mr. Bianconi, who had laid out his capital in Tipperary, which was said to be the worst and most disturbed part of Ireland. Certainly Mr. Bianconi deserved great credit, and ought to have had the protection of Government. Now, he would tell them how Mr. Bianconi had been protected by the Government to which the right hon. Baronet belonged. That Gentleman was struggling into the world, taking stations for stables for his horses, when one of the men he employed quarrelled with him, and he refused to give up a particular station, telling him he was an alien, and
 1098 l l. l. 1099 1100 l. 1101
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde,  though he fully agreed with all that had been said as to the integrity of the commissioners, still there was one point in their report which he viewed with suspicion, and that was the estimate of 10,000 l l l
 Mr. Lynch  begged to set the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken right. The expenses of the Dublin and Kingstown Railway were no doubt great, but that Was because the land required for the undertaking being in the neighbourhood of the capital, was of course much dearer than that required for a railway in the country. For such an undertaking as the one then under consideration, it must be
 1102
 Mr. O'Brien : As the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had so well answered the objections taken to the vote by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel), it was unnecessary for him to travel over the same ground. The question was, whether railway enterprise should be encouraged in Ireland, but before he proceeded to that part of the case, he begged to set the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer right upon one point. He was prepared to deny, that all local improvements were assisted by Government aids—concurring in the, vote as he did, he must express his sorrow that it was not made universal. He did not believe, that there would be a much greater difficulty on the part of the Government in undertaking a general
 1103
 Mr. H. Grattan  also supported the measure, on the ground amongst many others, of the Government being better able, in Ireland especially, than private companies to meet the vast preliminary expenses of railways. The expense in one case had been as great as 18,000,000 l. 1104 l l l l
 Mr. Lucas  said, that the noble Lord had not given to the Committee a clear indication of the course he intended to pursue as to the northern and western parts of Ireland. The noble Lord had mentioned incidentally that there were two Acts in existence for lines between Dublin and Belfast. He wished to know what course the noble Lord intended to take in case private individuals proposed to make those two lines into one, from Dublin to Belfast, because then it would not be a commissioners' line. He wished also to know what course the noble Lord intended to pursue with respect to the west of Ireland. He knew that the noble Lord did not propose to lay out any money in the west of Ireland, but would he forward or oppose those who were inclined to lay out
 1105
 Mr. Wyse  could not understand why the branch line that was to go to Clonmel should stop there. He could not see why it should not go to Waterford. Perhaps the noble Lord when he again addressed the House would state upon what ground it had stopped there.
 Mr. W. Roche  said, that elaborately argued as the question was, he did not mean to protract the debate beyond a few minutes, but he could not refrain from expressing his apprehension that unless the initiative in this measure be taken up by Government, and under all the advantages of intelligence, influence, system, and resources, which they can bring to bear on the prosecution of these undertakings, every thing will be confusion waste of time, of money, and ultimate failure of arriving at any truly national or judicious plan. If it be left to private speculation, in so poor and inexperienced a country as Ireland, years may elapse before she reaps any solid benefit, and then probably not till after great waste of time and money in correcting errors and defects, and the mischiefs of consulting personal rather than the general interests. Even in rich intelligent England it was admitted that serious disadvantages had ensued, and would ensue from "joint stocks," or "company" monopolies in the railways of this country, as well as an immense waste of expenditure. A good deal had been said
 1106
 Mr. Ashton Yates  believed that the report of the Commissioners showed conclusively that the people of Ireland would not advance in prosperity, and increase in wealth, unless the plan of the Government was adopted. He, therefore, should feel bound to support it. He thought the Government were fully justified in bringing forward that plan, because it would not interfere with vested interests, either in canals or railroads. He did not think it possible that such a system of railroads as the welfare of Ireland required could be established by private exertions. It had been found that capital could not be raised even in England for the completion of most of the railroads now in course of formation in that country. Very few of them were likely to yield profits sufficient to tempt speculators. Large sums of money were transmitted to America for the construction of railroads. Because six per cent. interest was given and a security of Go-
 1107
 Mr. Hume  wished to make a few observations on the motion before the House. He was Satisfied that the observations made by the right hon. Baronet the Member fat Tamworth, in respect of what the Government would have td do if they how began the work proposed, were deserving of serious consideration. The House would recollect, that this was the first time that it was about to undertake as a public work what had hitherto been considered as a commercial speculation. It behoved them, therefore to consider well to what extent the plan was to be carried, and what means were to be applied to carrying it out. A suggestion had been made by an hon. Member on the second bench (Mr. Lucas) which he thought extremely well deserving of the attention of her Majesty's Government. Coupled with the observations of the right hon. Baronet, it appeared to him to hold out a prospect of having accomplished all that the Government meant to do, and at the same time of satisfying the country. He was quite sate that the Government after beginning once could not stop short with
 1108 1109 1110 1111
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that during the speech of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he found himself agreeing with every alternate sentence. He could not help thinking, that in one part of it he had spoken as the Member for Kilkenny, in another part with the natural and hereditary caution of the Member for Montrose; and in another, as the late Member for Middlesex, with an eye to the interests of the people of England. Seeing the hon. Member for Dublin opposite, he would take the liberty of asking what security the people of England would
 1112
 Mr. O'Connell  rose, and said: Sir, the hon. Baronet must be hard to satisfy, if I do not satisfy him. I solemnly pledge myself to introduce a clause into the Repeal Bill—making it a debt on the Irish nation, and by pledging not only the counties that will be pledged by this Act of Parliament, but the entire kingdom, to the repayment of that debt. And I beg to remind the hon. Baronet, that the Irish people have never yet broken faith—but faith has been often broken with them. Those whom the hon. Baronet represents, and to whom he is attached, have broken the most solemn treaties, entered into for a valuable consideration—have broken them, too, with a most indecent violation of faith. In none of the treaties that the Irish made with England, were they guilty of a breach of faith. My hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, indeed, has said, that they broke faith about the million—they did not. When that vote was before the House, I said, that not a farthing would ever be repaid. The promise I now make I shall perform with equal punctuality.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, it was quite true that the hon. and learned Gentleman had said, that of the million not a shilling would be repaid. He only feared a similar result, if the present plan were adopted. If two millions and a-half were granted now, they could not calculate on an expenditure of less than eight millions ultimately; and for this the land was to be a security. When the land was called on to repay 'the advance, he did not believe that one farthing would be paid. He entirely concurred in the opinion, that it would be infinitely better to rely on the private exertions of individuals, than leave the plan in the hands of the Government. He had no hostility to Ireland. He would grant two millions and two millions more, if peace and tranquillity could by such means be restored to that country. But as for the present measure, if it came to a division, he must vote against it.
 Mr. Slaney  would support the grant. He had gone through the country through which it was proposed that these railroads
 1113 d. d. d
 Sir George Strickland  was anxious to support the Government, and he hoped the House would not come to a division on this subject as he should have some difficulty in giving his vote. He could not
 1114 l l l
 Viscount Sandon  remarked that if the subject for consideration was this, that
 1115 l l 1116
 Captain Jones  observed, that the noble Lord had spoken of counties giving guarantees for repayments. He wished to know whether a consent to that effect had been obtained, and then if the noble Lord had made a calculation how much the counties would be answerable for? Suppose 180,000 l l l
 Mr. Ashton Yates  remarked, that on the Liverpool and Manchester Railway a great profit was Made in the traffic of heavy goods.
 Viscount Sandon  understood the directors of that railway to have said, that they were willing to give up that species of traffic, and to cease carrying coals and
 1117
 Mr. Ashton Yates  said, it Was stated, a few days ago, in the proceedings of the London and Southampton Railway, that they Were on that line carrying goods to a very great extent. The carrying of coals, too, on the Manchester and Liverpool Railway was increasing every day. That, he was sure, would not be the case if the railroads did not profit by it.
 Lord John Russell  had only a few words to address to the House upon this subject, and they were chiefly intended as a reply to the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool. His noble Friend had seriously maintained that agricultural produce in Ireland would not be carried by railroads, and, therefore, they could not be profitable. He hardly thought that his noble Friend could come justly to any conclusion of that kind, when the commissioners who had devoted so much time end attention to this, and who, looking to the traffic likely to take place, contemplated that the railroads would produce four and a half per cent., after all expenses. His noble Friend made a calculation—it might be an erroneous one—but it was not to be supposed that on the first night they Sat anti discussed this subject, they were to set aside the calculations that had been made, and to act upon the Supposition that agricultural produce would not be carried on railroads. He believed that some kind of agricultural produce at least could be so carried; and his noble Friend, he was sure, must be mistaken when he affirmed, that much of the produce of Ireland could not be profitably carried by means of railways, if they were established between Dublin and Cork. The fact was, that agricultural produce was so carried and to a very considerable amount. He wished likewise to advert to the arguments of his noble Friend, as to the advantage to be conferred upon Ireland from the establishment of railways. He could not imagine how any man was to suppose that these railroads existing in Ireland, and that they were used as a means of traffic, that no advantage was also to be derived from them in importing the blessings of civilization in that country. Railroads had been said to be a means of traffic unsuited to a country in the State of Ireland. He really believed, that railroads were carried into some parts of the United States of America, which were far more wild than many parts of Ireland. It was said that this proposition was brought
 1118
 Sir David Roche  remarked, that in the canal to Limerick the traffic was very considerable at present. The agricultural produce that Was now conveyed for 20 s s
 Viscount Morpeth  had already occupied so much of the time of the committee in the beginning of the evening, that he assured them he should be very short in trespassing upon their time again. Some censure been cast by very grave authorities oft the plan he had proposed. Some had said that the plan did not go far enough, and they had objected to him that he did not take more in hand at once. He should not be sorry to find that the successful issue of this experiment, and the advantages it would confer both upon England and Ireland would justify this censure, and induce them to extend the plan. He thought, however, that enough had transpired to justify them in making a beginning; and it was but fair that the country should see what could be done, and done successfully, before they ventured to proceed further with this undertaking. He merely wished to state to the hon. Members who had talked of this being a grant made to Ireland, that they must live paid but very little attention to his opening statement or to the resolution which I was now in the hands of their Chairman. He did not propose to give a single
 1119 1120 1121
 Lord John Russell  wished the committee before going to a division, to recollect, that the commissioners, who were most competent persons, had investigated this subject, and made a certain report. The Government had taken that report into its consideration, and his noble Friend had explained the plan, which had undergone great discussion. All he wanted was, that the House should have a future opportunity of deciding upon this question, and that they should not now at once go into a final vote, which would decide whether, ultimately the plan was to be proceeded with or not. The carrying of this resolution would merely enable his noble Friend to bring in a bill. He was ready to consent to any examination of the propositions which might be required, but he did hope, that upon further consideration, this question would be considered one which chiefly affected the welfare and improvement of Ireland, and that it would not be treated as the merest partyqueston.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  agreed with the noble Lord, that there was nothing in this question to excite any unusual party feeling. He did not believe, that those who sat on that (the Opposition) side of the House entertained those feelings. They felt, and he felt, that by agreeing to this proposition they would be pledged to support any future measure that should be founded upon it.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that as far as he was concerned, he had no objection to allow the bill to pass through its present stage, provided the committee were postponed till some day after the Irish assizes, so that an opportunity might be afforded to many Irish Gentlemen, now absent to take part in the discussion.
 Sir R. Inglis  was opposed to the principle of the bill, and he should certainly not consent to its passing the second reading at that hour of the night. He would take the sense of the House on the motion.
 Sir R. Bateson  concurred in the propriety of postponing the bill. He regarded the bill with jealousy; for he believed it would take all power from the Protestants, and throw it into the hands of the Catholics. He called upon the Protestants
 1125
 Viscount Dungannon  would divide, if no other Member did, with the hon. Baronet who had addressed the House in a manner which did him credit, against the bill. Though called by the specious name of "A Bill for the Reform of the Irish Municipal Corporations," the measure was nothing more nor less than an insidious
 1126
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the hon. Baronet, whether the petition which he had that night presented was the one agreed to at a meeting at the Mansion-house in Dublin on 22d of February last?
 Sir R. Bateson,  when the hon. Member sat down would answer his question.
 Mr. Hume  would then assume, that the question must be answered in the affirmative. He would call the attention of the House to a report of the resolutions passed at that meeting, one of which was to the effect, that the miseries of Ireland were to be attributed to the laws which fostered a sect whose doctrines were idolatrous and damnable, and that where Popery existed nothing but anarchy and confusion could prevail. This resolution was seconded by the rev. Mr. Gregg, who declared, that in consequence of the existence of Popery, the curse of God was upon the land, and read the 28th chapter of Deuteronomy as descriptive of the present state of Ireland. Now he (Mr. Hume) had referred to that chapter, and he would read to the House the 16th verse of it:—"Cursed shalt thou be in the city, and cursed shalt thou be in the field." The hon. Member then went on to read other verses—"Cursed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and cursed shalt thou be when thou goest out. The
 1127
 Sir R. Bateson  said, be had been called on by the hon. Member for Kilkenny to give an answer to a question which had been put to him, and in doing so the hon. Member had been making a long speech with his usual accuracy and information as to the state of Ireland. He could only say, that he never heard the slightest rumour with respect to such a petition as the hon. Member had read. He did not say, that no such petition was in existence; perhaps it had been intrusted to the hon. Member. But if the hon. Member wished to know what was the petition which he (Sir R. Bateson) had that night presented, he would tell him, that it was one signed by 1,042 respectable inhabitants of the city of Dublin; not a petition agreed to at any public meeting. There was no quoting or misquoting, or profanation of scripture in it, and as the petition had been presented in a very thin House, and was only five or six lines in length, he would, with the permission of the House, read it. The hon. Baronet accordingly proceeded to read the petition, in which it was stated, that the petitioners, inhabitants of the city of Dublin, had seen with much apprehension a bill introduced into that House, for the professed purpose of a
 1128
 Lord Castlereagh  was very glad, that the hon. Baronet had answered the question of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, because it had brought back the House to the question, whether the order of the day for the second reading of the bill should be now read. He should, however, before he adverted to that question, like to know, whether the recent appointment of the noble Lord, who had been made Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, could be defended? The hon Member for Kilkenny inquired, "Are you going to exterminate the Catholics?" He would ask hon. Gentlemen opposite if they were going to put down the Protestant Church by the appointment of their new Lord-lieutenant. The sentiments of that noble Lord were perfectly well known, and if no other hon. Member moved for it, he himself should be very much tempted to move for a copy of the oath which the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland took upon his appointment, and to put it in juxtaposition with the speech which the noble Lord delivered in July, last year. He would ask her Majesty's Government, if they would condescend to give him an answer, and he would ask the Protestants of Ireland if such an appointment was likely in any degree to strengthen the Protestant Church, as had been said by a noble Lord in another place. One thing was clear, that the heavy blow and great discouragement to the Church of Ireland was now to be followed up by strong measures. He should only further say, that he should, because this nomination had taken place, vote with the hon. Baronet below him in his opposition to the second reading of the bill.
 Lord John Russell  had hoped, after what passed last year, that all parties in that House were agreed in the principle of this bill. Then he very much misunderstood the character and meaning of the debates
 1129 1130 1131 1132
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  regretted that this discussion had arisen at so late an hour (twelve o'clock). He regretted extremely, that the noble Lord had not yielded to the suggestion which had been thrown out, that it would be better not to bring the question forward at so advanced a period of the evening. It seemed that they had wandered from the main question before the House. Perhaps that was one of the inevitable consequences of pressing forward a question of this magnitude and importance against the sense of a great proportion of the House at so late an hour. He believed, that no one in that House, or elsewhere, had impugned the high moral character of the Nobleman to whom the noble Lord had referred. He believed, that no man, either in or out of that House, would venture so to do. He believed, that no man possessed a higher character than that distinguished individual. But he regretted to learn from the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) that he espoused, admitted, and justified the expressions used by that Nobleman upon a question of vital importance to the sister country. Did the noble Lord adopt the language which fell from Lord Ebrington when he was a Member of that House. Did he understand the noble Lord to profess his acquiescence in all that fell from Lord Ebrington upon the occasion in question? Did he not understand the noble Lord to say, that he held the same sentiments? Let him see, if the noble Lord would venture in the face of that House—in the face of England—in the face of that measure which he himself proposed, to admit and repeat the sentiments which he would now take the liberty of reading to the House. What was the
 1133 1134 O' Connell:
 Sir R. Inglis  rose to second the motion. [" Cries of Chair, chair, Order, order! 1135
 Lord J. Russell  said, the hon. and learned Member for Bandon had by no means correctly represented what he had stated in the House. The hon. and learned Member had read something from a newspaper or from some Report, and had said those were sentiments which he (Lord J. Russell) had said he meant to abide by. [Mr. Sergeant  Jackson—
 Mr. Blackstone  was glad to hear the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford declare, that he would take the sense of the House on the motion for postponing the second reading. He trusted the noble Lord would not at this time of night go into a discussion of a general question. Although he had watched the bill for three years, he had never had an opportunity of expressing his sentiments, although he had not on former occasions been able to concur with his friends in voting for the abolition of Corporations. He conceived these corporations were instituted originally for Protestant purposes, and he was unwilling that those principles should be passed over without discussion. He did not wish to enter into the topics which had been discussed that night, but he did hope the noble Lord would give them an opportunity of discussing the merits of that bill.
 Mr. Maxwell  promised the House the hand of the clock should not reach the quarter (it then being ten minutes past twelve) before he finished his observations. He disclaimed being any party to the understanding to which the noble Lord had alluded. He came into that House, attached to no party, his principles were preeminently Conservative, but he was the representative of a large and populous county in Ireland, and he represented the feelings and wishes of nine-tenths of the Protestants of Ireland, with reference to the subject before the House. He meant to say, that it was the feeling of the Protestants in Ireland, that they would never consent to those Corporations, one of the principal objects of which were to protect the rates and institutions, being the means of transferring power into the hands of the Roman Catholics, and he tendered his hearty thanks to those English and Irish Members who had taken this subject in hand.
 Mr. Sheil : The hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford announced at the outset, that he would divide the House upon this question. He was sustained in that view by the hon. Gentleman who followed him; and the hon. Baronet the Member for Londonderry (Sir Robert Bateson), and the noble Lord, the Member for Down (Lord Castlereagh), undertook to adopt the same course. Might he (Mr. Sheil) venture to ask them this question—"How does it come to pass that you have taken a step so important in the ab-
 1137 " No! No! 1138 "This establishment which has always exceeded the religious wants of the Protestant congregations has hitherto been upheld by the State merely on the ground, that it consolidated the connection between the two countries. But this service it no longer performs. Instead of strengthening the connection, it weakens it. Any Government henceforth pledged to main-
 1139
 Lord Castlereagh  said, as the hon. Member who had just sat down had asked him how he had ventured to oppose the
 1140
 The Speaker  said, the noble Lord had already addressed the House on the subject, and it would be highly inconvenient were hon. Members to be allowed to address the House a second time in reply to questions which might be put to them.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the noble Lord was perfectly in order. Since he had last addressed the House a new question had been put. The hon. and learned Member for Bandon had moved the adjournment of the House, and the noble Lord, he apprehended, had a right to address the House again on the question of adjournment.
 The Speaker  said, if the noble Lord claimed a right to speak on the new question before the House, he bad a perfect right to do so; but, as it was his duty to preserve order and regularity in the debates, he could not but notice the remark which the noble Lord had made on rising. The noble Lord had said, he rose to reply to a question, and were such a proceeding sanctioned the greatest inconvenience would result from it.
 Lord Castlereagh  should always bow with deference to the Chair. A question had been put to him, and in reply he begged to state distinctly, that in his place in Parliament, and in the discharge of his duty as the Representative of a large and populous county, he owed no allegiance to any chief, and would bow to the dictates of no man, nor follow the course which any hon. Member might pursue, unless be was persuaded, that that course was one likely to be productive of beneficial consequences to his country. He was always anxious to perform his duty uprightly and conscientiously, and to do all the good which was in his power, and he trusted, that he should ever discharge that duty in the manner most likely to promote the best interests of the nation, and to secure the good opinion of the important constituency which he had the honour to represent. He had opposed the second reading of the bill before the House, because it was not usual, and because he thought it improper to bring on so important
 1141
 Dr. Lefroy  said, the letter from Lord Anglesey to Earl Grey, which had been read by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, was a private and confidential communication, and the circumstances of the case were therefore totally different from the speech of Lord Ebrington, which had been under consideration.
 Lord J. Russell  stated, that as he found a disposition on the part of hon. Members opposite to oppose the second reading of the bill at the present hour, he would postpone the second reading until Friday next.
 Mr. Labochere : Yes, they are.
 Mr. Jervis  said, it was due to the right hon. Gentleman that he should state, that the decision of the Committee had been unanimous; but he was also bound to say, and he believed he expressed the general opinion of the Committee, that there had been considerable irregularity and laxity in the office from which the patent issued. He should, therefore, move, that the report be printed, as it was his intention, as early as possible, to bring under the consideration of the House, the ante-dating of the patent by which the right hon. Gentleman held his office.
 Lord J. Russell  said, there was not, he believed, the smallest objection to the motion; and certainly, if the hon. Gentleman thought it more convenient to have a single sheet of paper, and have the appointments without the dates rather than with them, it was not worth while to have any dispute upon the subject, He must say, however,
 1050
 Lord J. Russell  said, the only objection which could be made to this motion was, he believed, this—that the papers in question were already on the Table of that House. He observed, that the motion of the hon. Member did not contain that which appeared to be most essential for his purpose—namely, the dates of the appointments, although he believed that the dates were included in the papers already before the House. He would, therefore, suggest to the hon. Member, whether he had not better consult the papers already before the House, to see if he required any additional information.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, he had a very strong objection to the motion. Simply for this reason, that it tended greatly to delay the decision of the House upon this question. He was surprised, that the hon. Member for Southwark, in coming forward to attack his seat, should have thrown out such imputations against the noble Lord as he had heard, because the information with respect to this subject had been laid before the House in two distinct returns last Session; and no new information could be added upon the points in question. Let the House, however, if it thought proper, appoint a Committee from either side; he should be quite ready to abide by the decision of any Committee.
 Mr. Harvey  would observe, in reply to the noble Lord, that he could not contemplate that they could have copies of any appointments, without the dates of those appointments, including every other particular relating to the making and reception of those appointments. It was very true, as the hon. Member for Liskeard had stated, that these facts were already before the House, and that they had been before the House last Session as well as the present. That was just the matter of which he complained. He was surprised, that there should have been a return made last Session, setting forth, that Members of that House had accepted offices of emolument under the Crown; and yet that such a return had not attracted the attention of those hon. Gentlemen who had been so anxious in other cases to distinguish themselves by insisting on the strict observance of the rules of Parliament. As to unseating the hon. Member for Liskeard, he had never wished to unseat him. All he wanted was, to see the rules of the House kept with strict impartiality in all cases. He wanted to bring these matters under the eyes of other persons. He did not want to unseat the hon. Gentleman, or any other hon. Gentleman, but that those persons should have their attention drawn to the subject who had already been occupied with similar questions. He did not want to send the hon. Gentleman back to his constituency merely because he (Mr. Harvey) had been sent back to his. He disclaimed any petty
 1051
 Mr. Harvey : No, not the appointments themselves. What he wanted, was to have before the House the specific appointments under the hand and seal of Lord Durham. Now, they certainly did not appear in the papers before the House; and what pretext there could be for not producing in a more comprehensive form the return he wanted, he could not understand, unless it might be with a view to give the go-by to this question. Let the House deal with the motion as it might, he cared nothing about it. He only wanted to bring his mind—which he owned he found it difficult to do—to something like a conclusion, that impartial justice might be obtained in that House. When the motion was made for a similar return in his case, no objection was made to it: there was none of the zealous opposition which appeared now, then manifested to the production of the date of his appointment. Whether the House rejected or agreed to the motion, was equally a matter of indifference to him. If it would be any convenience to the noble Lord to let the motion stand over for the purpose of introducing any specific word as to the object of the motion, he would most readily yield to the suggestion. But if the object was to defeat the motion, he should certainly take the sense of the House upon it, and see whether it would refuse to do that in one case which it had thought absolutely necessary to be done in another.
 Mr. Harvey  thought it would be more convenient for hon. Members to have a small paper in their hands with the simple facts contained in it, than to have to wade through a large volume, which very few would take the trouble to do. As to the fact about the dates of the appointments, that might be at once ascertained by a compliance with the motion for the returns, because it called upon Lord Durham to make a return of the dates of the appointments before he left England, as well as of those made while he was in Canada; and he apprehended, that the time of the departure of Lord Durham from England, and the time of his leaving Canada, were matters of no uncertainty; and therefore, if a return were made of those two periods, it would be easy to arrive at the object which he sought. At the same time, it would be more correct to insert in the return, the day and the date of each specific appointment. But as to calling the attention of the House to the whole report to which the noble Lord had alluded, it must be obvious, that it would be far more convenient that an extract should be made of the simple facts required.
 Mr. Harvey  said, he must confess that he was somewhat surprised and a little
 1049
 Mr. Harvey  said, it was not necessary for him, after what had so recently passed in the House, to trouble the House with any remarks. He, therefore, moved, for "an Address to her Majesty, for copies of any appointments
 1048
 Mr. Labouchere  said, the papers already before the House comprised all the appointments made by Lord Durham both before he left the country and afterwards; and that it was not consistent with the usages of the House to require the same return to be given again.
 Mr. J. Jervis  brought up the Report of the Select Committee which had been directed to inquire into the appointment of the right hon. Charles W. W. Wynn to the office of Steward of the Lordship of Denbigh, which was read by the Clerk at the Table, and was to the following effect:—
 "The Committee having heard evidence and fully considered the appointment which they were directed to investigate, have come to the following resolutions:—that the office of Steward to the Lordship of Denbigh is an office of profit held under the Crown, and that the right hon. Charles W. W. Wynn was appointed to the said office by her present Majesty; but that the said right hon. Charles W. W. Wynn did not accept the said office since his election as a Member of the present Parliament."
 Lord Ashley  would avail himself of that opportunity to bring under the attention of the House a subject which, as he conceived, affected the privileges of the House and the character of some of its Members. He had no commission to speak of names other than his own. He spoke only on his own behalf; and as his name had been so frequently introduced into the report of the factory commissioners, he could not suffer the report to pass unnoticed. The House would see the painful position in which he was placed. It was impossible for him not to notice this document, and yet, to do it, he must step between hon. Members and the most important business before the House; he would have delayed his motion had it not been certain that he should have been liable to imputations if he postponed it. The House would recollect that last year a committee of that House sat to inquire into 'the combination of workmen in England, Scotland, and Ireland, which committee reported the evidence to the House. Since that time a report had been made, pursuant to an Act of Parliament, by the inspectors of factories, to the Secretary of State for the Home Department. The report written by Mr. Stuart, the commissioner for Scotland, contained charges against some persons, not only in their character as Members of Parliament, but also on their conduct as Members of committee, commenting upon their speeches, and imputing to them the very worst of motives. Had these imputation been made
 1165 1166 "The only legitimate object for which the Committee was appointed, was 'to inquire into the constitution and proceedings of any combinations of workmen or employers of workmen,' an object altogether foreign to the inquiry which the Committee was instituted to carry on, which was 'with a view to show the impracticability of the provisions of the Factory Act, and its systematic violation in the cotton spinning factories at Glasgow.'" "The intention of the Committee to institute such an investigation was in no way made known to the factory owners in Glasgow, or generally in Scotland.' "The course followed by the Committee in concealing their intention to include in their inquiry the enforcement of the Factory Act is the more liable to animadversion, because one of the Members of the Committee, previous to the examination of the three cotton spinners, had a private meeting with theta, when he specially interrogated them respecting the alleged animadversion of the Act, and its violation in Glasgow." "It is the more liable to animadversion, because one of the Members of the Committee, previous to the public examination of the three cotton spinners, had a meeting with them." John Russell: 1167 O'Connell: "Messrs. Houldsworth, Todd, and M'Naught, the three cotton spinners examined by the Committee, were selected by a meeting of the cotton spinners of Glasgow as the fittest persons to appear before the Committee as witnesses; and it may therefore be assumed, that more respectable or better informed individuals could not be found: yet not a single question respecting the operation of the Factory Act was put to Messrs. Houldsworth and M'Naught; and when Mr. Todd, in answer to Lord Ashley's second question to him, said, that he took no children under thirteen, his Lordship did not put another question to him." 1168 1169 ex parte 1170 "The real object of all the advocates of the Ten Hours' Bill is altogether different from the avowed object. They probably deceive themselves into the belief that, by their endeavours to have the present law enforced with strictness, by leaving with the inspectors no discretionary power as to prosecutions, and thus converting the law into a means of oppressing the manufacturers, the are, to some extent at least, forcing the factory occupiers into a compliance with their favourite scheme; but their chief aim, although their prejudices and prepossessions may render them blind to it, is to pave the way for a Ten Hours' Bill, by disparaging and bringing the present law into discredit." 1171 Morning Chronicle "I found on arriving in Glasgow early Us August, that James Macnish was already in possession of the printed minutes of evidence—that is, of the first report of the committee On combinations, which he stated had been sent to him by Lord Ashley. Not one of the master cotton-spinners was then in possession of those minutes." 1172
 Lord J. Russell  inquired, whether the noble Lord had said all that he intended to say in support of the statement with which he had set out at the commencement of his speech—that in this report the worst motives were attributed to certain Members of that House?
 Lord Ashley  stated, in reply, that he considered the  gravamen 1173
 Lord J. Russell  was glad that he had asked the question, because the answer had drawn his attention to the precise ground of complaint. With respect to the whole matter, he must say, that the charge against the noble Lord—if it were to be called a charge—was, that he had listened to persons who had described horrors not worthy of belief. That was the whole of the charge. But throughout there was no statement of a charge; but the real fact was, that it was a defence on the part of Mr. Stuart against statements made in that House. It was stated publicly in that House, and particularly by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that the Factory Act was not in any way put in force in Glasgow; and it happened that during that debate the noble Lord desired, that in fairness the evidence given before the Committee, but which was not reported, should be stated to the House. The fact, however, was, that it did get abroad, and when the report was printed, it was found that it charged against Mr. Stuart not merely that the Factory Act had not been put into operation at Glasgow, but that he, being a factory inspector, and being bound, if he had the power, to carry it into effect, had reported to the Secretary of State from time to time, in seven or eight reports, that the act was generally carried into effect—the fact being that it was not, and that its provisions were violated every day. He said, then, that there could be no heavier charge made against a man than this. Was he to say to Mr. Stuart, "You are charged with a violation of your duty—you are charged with snaking false representations to the Government—you are charged with a total ignorance or a concealment of facts which passed daily before your eyes; that the charge is made by a Member or Members of the House of Commons, but I tell you that you must submit to it, and you cannot be allowed to have the means or the power of proving the falsehood of those charges." Was he to say that to any man who was employed in an office subordinate to his own? He felt that if he had done so, be should have been treating that individual in a way which was unworthy of him, and in a manner which he was not entitled to do; for if he had said so, he might have said, "The noble Lord may make his charge, but it is not competent to you to say a single word, to utter a single syllable,
 1174 1175 1176 1177 "The intention of the committee to institute such investigation was in no way made known to the factory owners in Glasgow, or generally in Scotland; nor, which is more remarkable, to Messrs. Houldsworth, Todd, and M'Naught, the three factory-owners from Glasgow, who were in London at the same period with the three cotton-spinners, and were at the same time examined by the committee on that inquiry, for which alone the committee was appointed. These gentlemen left London on their return to Glasgow, in utter ignorance that the committee had put to the three cotton-spinners a single question respecting the operation of the Factory Act." Ashley: 1178 1179 1180
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that he would not occupy the attention of the House many minutes; but be must say, that he did not think that the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat, had put the point very fairly to the House. The question was, did the noble Lord opposite adopt that portion of this report wherein all persons concerned in these proceedings of which the report complained, were charged with entertaining one object when they professed another. With regard to the credulity of his noble Friend (Lord Ashley), the noble Lord might well apply his remark to him (Lord G. Somerset), and to every other Member of the House, if they believed the explanation given by him of these passages of the report. The noble Lord had said, that the observations of Mr. Stuart applied to the persons who
 1181
 Lord John Russell : The whole paragraph must be taken together, as I have already read it.
 Lord G. Somerset  was content to do so; and upon the context, he contended that it was the proceedings of the Committee of which Mr. Stuart complained. If, however, the noble Lord withdrew this expression used in the report, and said that something different was intended, he had no doubt that his noble Friend behind him would be sufficiently satisfied with that sacrifice of the English language to him. He begged the noble Lord, however, to turn to page 32 of the report, and there he would find evidence conclusive of the meaning of the observations subsequently used. It was there said,
 "The testimony of the three cotton-spinners, and of Mr. Allison, as given in the report of the Committee, would have been contradicted, however, not only by the evidence of the witnesses examined before the Combination Committee, had they all been examined respecting the observance of the Factory Act; but, as I am now to show, even by their own testimony, had they been cross-questioned, or examined by individuals conversant with factory employment, and warped by no prejudice in the proceedings." 1182 P. Thomson: 1183 "Besides taking the children out of harm's way, they have imbued them with regular, orderly, and industrious habits. Their earnings are considerable, and are a considerable assistance to their parents; at the same time, that they make them perform their tasks with a zeal and alacrity that is rarely manifested by apprentices serving without pay, merely that they may learn some art, trade, or mystery. Many factories have also day-schools or Sunday-schools, or both, attached to them, which the children attend. But, independently of this, the training they undergo in factories is of inestimable value, and is not more conducive to their own interests than to those of the public."
 Mr. O'Connell  was really surprised to see such excellent argumentation and such lofty indignation expended on a very trivial affair. It was, indeed, quite true that no Members could have acted with more impartiality, or with better motives, than the two noble Lords who had just spoken. But he was really surprised that the noble Lord (Ashley) should have considered the vindication necessary, or should even think it imperative on him to enter at all into this discussion. He would defy any one who had read that report, to say that he (Mr. O'Connell) was not the person who was principally attacked in it. He quarrelled with Mr. Stuart for two things. First, because he disparaged his (Mr. O'Connell's) powers of cross-examination, which he thought exceedingly discourteous, because he was an old lawyer, and also a Member of Parliament; and, next, because he said the committee had gone out of their way in the examination, in having had some members of the combination and the Glasgow Cotton-spinners Association, brought before them. He saw two or three of those persons outside the House, and he thought it would be giving fair play to the enemies of the
 1184 1185
 Mr. Goulburn  was glad the matter had been brought forward by the noble Lord, as it would contribute to stop, at the very first outset, a practice which, if allowed to be continued, would very materially affect the privileges of the House; for if it were to be allowed that individuals employed by the Government, and paid with the public money, might come forward and make charges against Members of that House as regarded the manner in which they performed particular portions of their duty, the effect would be very serious on that freedom of examination and discussion which was essential to the due performance of it. Mr. Stuart, too, had directed his attack against the noble Lord, the Member for Dorsetshire: but the charges against Mr. Stuart, out of which had arisen his report, were made by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. He well remembered what took place on that occasion, and he could not help asking why the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, did not then stand up and defend Mr. Stuart, instead of calling on him to defend himself in a special report. He must also be allowed to say, that he conceived it to be the duty of a Secretary of State, when laying official documents such as the present on the Table of the House, to take care that no matter was allowed to be contained therein for which, had it appeared elsewhere, the writer might have been brought before other legal tribunals. He was glad to hear the noble Lord opposite bear testimony to the purity of his noble Friend's motives. His noble Friend's character stood fairly before the public, for no one who had observed his course with regard to the factory question could doubt, that his motives were most pure, and that he was actuated by the most enlarged benevolence towards the persons employed in factories, who were, indeed, already reaping so much benefit from the measure which had resulted from his exertions.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, when the right hon. Gentleman opposite asked why the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home
 1186 1187
 Lord Ashley  had by no means desired to preclude Mr. Stuart's right to defend himself; on the contrary, he had been anxious to give that gentleman every opportunity so to do. What be objected to was, that in defending himself be should have thought it necessary to cast what he felt to be a foul and unfounded imputation on an individual Member of Parliament. It was quite true, as the hon. Gentleman opposite had just said, that when the charge was made he (Mr. F. Manic) did contradict certain allegations; but he did so in a very different tone and temper from that of this report. As the noble Lord opposite, however, had given up his position, and seemed very frightened at the noise himself had made; he should not pursue the matter further.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  wished to know, whether any indemnity had been given to the Mexican pilot who was taken from the British vessel?
 Viscount Ingestrie  would like to be informed, whether there was any objection to produce the letter of the lieutenant?
 Viscount Honick  said, that the statement of the right hon. and gallant Officer was so completely and utterly erroneous, that it was calculated to do, and if it went forth to the country uncontradicted, it must do, great and irreparable injury to the public service. He greatly regretted, that the subject of pensions had been brought forward at all on the present occasion, when he did not expect that it would be gone into, and when he had not, therefore, come down supplied with the documents with which it was his duty to be supplied for the information of the House on such a subject, and which, had he anticipated the discussion, he should have felt it was most desirable to have with him, in order to make his reply to the remarks and assertions of the hon. and gallant Officer as full and satisfactory as possible. However, he felt very confident that the statement which he should have the honour to make would be substantially correct, and that statement he thought it very necessary that he should make, in consequence of the statement of the right hon. and gallant Gentleman, and in order to explain to the House the real circumstances of the change which had taken place with respect to the pension warrants in the British army. He believed the right hon. Gentleman would bear him out in stating, that in 1829, when the right hen, Gentleman came into the office of Secretary at War, the right hon. Gentleman found that the pension list of the army was yearly increasing; that the non-effective army was rapidly approaching to an equality in point of numbers with the effective army; and that the military budget was adding seriously to the burdens borne by the finances of the country. This the right hon. and gallant Officer saw, and, much to his credit, took effectual steps to check. Previously to the appointment of the right hon. and gallant Officer as Secretary at War, it bad been the practice in the army at once to dismiss the men from the service with pensions, as a matter of course, the moment they completed their twenty-one years of service. The consequence was, that in middle life (or nearly so in most cases), in full health and strength, the soldier was discharged on a pension nearly equal to the amount which he had received as pay on service, and thus he might continue, and did in
 1198 s. s., 1199 d. d. maximum d. 1200 d. d. d. d. 1201 s. d. H. Hardinge: d. l., l. 1202
 Mr. Charles Wood. * * 1213 1214 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1215 1216 * * † Sir Robert Peel had done so across the table. 1217 *
 Mr. C. Wood  said, it was of the greatest importance that a vote should be taken. He therefore asked leave to sit again on Wednesday to propose the vote which he bad mentioned.
 Sir G. Clerk  had no objection to the postponement. Though he bore his testimony to the able manner in which the bon. Gentleman had gone through so many topics, there was a considerable degree of fallacy in his statement, particularly that part of it in which a contrast was drawn between the present state of the navy, and its condition under former Administrations.
 Viscount Ingestrie  wished to ask a question of the Government, or rather of the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Admiralty,
 1163
 Captain Boldero  maintained that he had a better right to make the motion of which he had given notice than the hon. Member for Kilkenny, who had given no notice whatever. He was glad, how-
 1191 l. C. Wood 1192 C. Wood, d. 1193 s. d. 1194
 Captain C. F. Berkeley  said, that it was not his intention to delay the House by entering into the general question then before it; but he could not allow the discussion to close without saying a word as to one observation which fell from the hon. and gallant Officer (Captain Troubridge.) That hon. and gallant Officer had said, that his (Captain Berkeley's) hon. relative had told him that he was sorry for having published the late work. In this he was sure the hon. and gallant Officer was altogether mistaken. His hon. and gallant relative could not have told him any such thing, for the fact was, that he was not sorry for it. His gallant relative had had no idea that in writing that book he was writing against the Admiralty. He had intended it only as an answer to some of the statements contained in the supplement to  Sir John Barrow's Life of Anson.
 Mr. G. Berkeley  would not detain the House a moment, as there was only one point upon which the hon. and gallant Gentleman had evidently been misinformed. He had the honour of belonging to the line, and he felt himself called upon to state, that the hon. and gallant Officer was much misinformed when he stated, that in the hour of danger the line had ever allowed the marines to take the lead. That was entirely a mistake.
 Lord John Russell  said, that a reply to the question must depend on a consideration of the intelligence which might arrive. It was impossible for the Government, not having received all the information, to pledge itself beforehand to produce any particulars; but when the information arrived, the opinion of the Board of Admiralty and of the heads of the other departments would be collected upon it.
 Mr. C. Wood  hoped the hon. Member for Birmingham would not consider that he meant any disrespect to him, if he declined, at that moment, going into the question on which he had sought information, and the less so, as he would have to
 1212
 Mr. C. Wood  said, the only object of Ministers in making the regulation complained of was, that marines and seamen should be put as nearly on the same footing as possible. The order in Council had arisen from the evidence of the right hon. and gallant Member for Launceston (Sir H. Hardinge) before the commission on military rewards and punishments, to which the attention of the Admiralty had been called. It was as follows:—"I do think that prospectively we shall have very great danger to this country, resulting from the restriction that limits the British soldier, with a severer duty than the marine soldier, to 6 d. s. 1195
 Mr. C. Wood  objected to its production till the whole transaction was in a more forward state; and he must say, that he thought the mode in which this subject had been treated by hon. Gentlemen opposite, was not a mode becoming the dignity of that House."
 Mr. C. Wood  replied, that the Government had received no further communication since the noble Lord first asked the question. In answer to that question, he had, in the first instance, said, that on the receipt of the intelligence, Government had determined to make a representation to the French Government; but before this determination could be executed, a dispatch was received from Commodore Douglas, informing the Admiralty, that as soon as he had arrived at Vera Cruz, he had received a satisfactory explanation, but he did not state what that explanation was; and having reason to expect a fuller dispatch, he thought it was better for Government to wait till they were possessed of full knowledge before they took another step.
 Mr. Horsman  said, there was one subject which he hoped would receive the serious consideration of the Admiralty—he meant the question of impressment. That mode of recruiting the navy was one which he thought few, if any, would be found to defend in the present day. He wished to know whether it was the intention of the Admiralty to bring forward any measure on that subject? If they did not, he would take an opportunity of bringing the question under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. F. H. F. Berkeley  was desirous of offering a few observations on the subject of the navy, in support of the sentiments which had been expressed by the gallant Admiral (Sir E. Codrington), and also with reference to a proceeding adopted by his brother, who was lately connected with the Admiralty; but he felt considerable embarrassment as it was the first time that he had risen to address the House. It was the opinion of his gallant relative—an opinion which had been formed after consultation with many experienced officers of the navy—that the manning of the navy was conducted on false principles. In the most glorious times of our naval warfare it had been a complaint, that the manning of the navy was ineffectively managed. It was found in the despatches of Nelson; and turning over the page of history and biography the same thing would be found a constant theme of complaint. From the battle of the Nile to the battle of Navarino, he thought he might venture to assert, without contradiction, that complaints existed touching the deficiency of the complements of the crews of British ships of war. It would be no argument to say, that the successes which attended the British navy in the glorious day of their triumphs could in any way excuse carelessness on this subject: far from it. As well might it be attempted to apologise for the inhumanity of the master of an excellent horse, who overstrained the animal in attempting some preternatural feat. The success of the horse would be no apology for the brutality of the master who over-taxed its power. So with regard to sailors. The victories which had shed such lustre on the British flag were frequently obtained by vessels that were
 1203 1204 E. Codrington "Many thanks for the perusal of the accompanying papers. I quite agree as to the necessity of carrying it into effect; and if (this was not addressed to Captain Berkeley) Captain Berkeley succeeds in doing so, he will deserve the thanks of the profession. Every hint contained in his papers has struck practical men as being absolutely necessary for some years; and if the naval service of England is to be held up to foreign nations on the footing it was formerly, something effectual must be done and that quickly. It is quite disgraceful to see ships half manned, and that badly, in the company of ships of other nations with full complements and no expense spared to
 1205 1206 sum indefessus agendo, sed nova pestis adest; 1207
 Mr. Goulburn  said, it was a rule that questions were not to be put argumentatively, and he must say that by the same rule answers ought not to be given argumentatively. By so doing, they were giving an unfair advantage to one side of the House.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that as he had been alluded to, he thought it due to the service to which he belonged to make a few observations. It was true, that he had stated, in his evidence before the commission to which the hon. Gentleman opposite had referred, that the soldiers of the line, who were exposed to so many hardships, and much ruin of constitution by service in unhealthy climates, would be extremely dissatisfied if they were only allowed a right to receive 6 d. s. 1196 s. d. s. d. s. 1197
 Mr. Brotherton  trusted, that Government would not be led away from its course by the suggestions thrown out for the increase of our naval armaments, as if we were now called upon to make preparation for war. If the Crown should declare war, who were to pay for it? Why, a great portion of the expense would come out of the pockets of the manufacturers and labourers of the country. He repeated his hope, that the Government would not be led away by such statements as they had heard, so as to make any unnecessary addition to the armaments of the country.
 Mr. Hume  would not press the amendment to a division.
 Mr. Hume  had a few observations to make before the House went into Committee; and, as the hon. and gallant Member opposite was not in the House when the order of the day was read, he had no right now to go on. That to which he was anxious to call the attention of the House was a matter which really did belong to the order of the day, for it had direct reference to the public expenditure. For some years past he had seen, with regret, that the expenditure of the country had gone on increasing. It was very natural that gallant Officers on both sides of the House should contend for the extension and improvement of the services to which they belonged; but he was for reducing our expenditure to the lowest possible point. He held in his hand a return recently laid upon the Table of the House, from which some curious results might be deduced. When in 1822, Lord Bexley, being Chancellor of the Exchequer, the dead weight loan was made of 13,000,000 l., l., 1188 l. l. l., l. l. l, l., l., l., l., l., l. l., 1189 l., l., l. "That it appears, by an account laid on the Table of this House, that the net public income of the United Kingdom of Great Bri-
 1190 
 
 day of April, 1838, was 46,090,544 
 And that the Expenditure in the same period was 47,519,076 
 Showing an Excess of Expenditure of £1,428,532 over the income of the Country in the year up to that period: "That the estimates of Army Services for the year 1838–39, were £6,062,216, and £6,199,810 for the year 1839–40, showing an increase of charge in this year of £137,600 more than in the past year: 
 
 "That the gross Estimate for Navy Services in the year 1838–9, was 4,960,911 
 Whilst the Estimates for the year 1829–40 are 4,459,374 
 Showing an excess of £498,463 "That, with such an apparent increase of £636,063, in the Estimates of the Navy and Army alone, more in this year than in the past, and with so large an excess of expenditure in the year ended the 5th day of April, 1838, it is expedient, before the House vote any part of the Supplies for either of these departments, that an account of the state of the Revenue and Expenditure of the country, made up as near to this period as it can be, should be laid on the Table of this House, with an explanation of the manner in which the excess of charge is to be provided."
 Mr. T. Attwood  said, that before the subject was disposed of, he wished to put a question to the Government, or to the hon. Member, the Secretary to the Admiralty. This question related to the pre-
 1211
 Admiral Codrington  bore testimony to the high respectability and great professional ability of the gallant officers to whom the hon. Member for Bristol had referred.
 Sir E. Codrington  was one of those who thought the present state of the navy insufficient to maintain the honour and interests of the country. He considered himself as competent a judge as any Lord of the Admiralty upon a question of this sort and his opinion was, and he was sure if the officers now employed could be brought to give their evidence they would coincide with him in the opinion, that the ships sent to sea were not in a condition creditably to do what in cases of difficulty would be expected of them. When he talked of a man-of-war, he meant a ship fully competent to perform all the duties that might be required of her, whether in battle or otherwise; but the complement of ships in the present day was not sufficient to enable them to do their duty to the flag under which they fought. He was prepared with a resolution upon the subject, which he would move to-morrow.
 Sir E. T. Troubridge  said, as he had been connected with the department of the marines, and had had it under his charge, he wished to say a few words with respect to the pensions of the marines. The gallant Member (Sir H. Hardinge) was the first person from whom he had heard any complaints. He did not know, that such complaints ever were made, or ever existed. The marines were sent to sea by rotation, so that every man had his turn. He humbly conceived, that no man would say, that unfit persons ought to have these pensions. These pensions were not the only ones to which the marines were entitled. Every man, if he was ill, had a pension, according to the severity of his hurt or his sickness, and the length of time that he had been in the service. Whilst sitting at the board be had often seen very young men, in the full vigour of life, come in for a very large pension, and therefore he had been of opinion, that increasing the number of years' service to entitle the men to pensions was very desirable. He agreed with everything that had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member as to the merits of the marines, and no man could say, that the present Members of the Board of Admiralty had ever doubted or denied that fact. The hon. Member would scarcely have touched on the subject, if he had first heard the statement which the Secretary of the Admiralty was about to make. With regard to the resignation of Captain Berkeley, there were never a people who worked so well together as himself and the other Members of the Board. He believed, that when the facts were fairly known to the public, his Friend Captain Berkeley would deeply regret, that he had left them at all. He, for one, did not agree to having large war complements in time of peace. He had alwyas said so; he had never departed an hour from that opinion. He did agree, that there should be some increase of complements. These complements had been increased, and whether they would be satisfactory to captains or first lieutenants of the navy, he did not know, for he never saw a captain or first lieutenant of the navy that was satisfied. But this he would say, when the country saw the number of ships now put in commission, and of men employed, it would be satisfied. He, therefore, deeply regretted that this state-
 1208
 Sir G. Clerk  entirely agreed with the gallant Member, that they should wait to hear the account of the complements and armaments of the ships. But he must call the attention of the House back to the statement of Captain Boldero, and to the explanation attempted by the gallant Secretary of the Admiralty, or the Lord of the Admiralty, who had last addressed the House. If he understood the Secretary of the Admiralty right, he grounded that alteration entirely on certain evidence given by his hon. Friend, the Member for Launceston (Sir H. Hardinge),
 1209 d. d. 1210
 Captain Pechell  felt, that he was obliged to agree in almost every word that had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member; but still he thought the gallant Officer would have been a better advocate had he dismissed from his mind all party feeling upon the question. Those on his side of the House were equally as anxious to serve the poor marine as those on the other side, and the hon. and gallant Member had got the start of them by his superior finesse. He trusted, that when the marines were on service in the guard-ships, that time so served would be allowed to count as sea-service.
 Captain Pechell  had a question to put, which he thought not beneath the dignity of the House, nor against its rules. It was a question, too, which he did not wish to be mixed up with any negotiations be-
 1164
 The Hon. Grantly Berkeley  said, in rising to second the motion of the gallant Admiral, he must address a few words to the House which he trusted would not be deemed irrelevant. It had been shown by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that the expenditure consequent on the present system of management in the navy was one of those by which the revenue was exceeded; therefore he would put it to the House whether some saving and benefit might not be achieved by lessening the number of ships at present in commission, and as they were all under their full com-
 1275 1276 then
 Captain Gordon  thought, that this subject was one which it was extremly fit that the Admiralty should consider. The gallant Admiral had spoken at very considerable length upon the subject, and he certainly should not attempt to follow him in the topics to which he had referred. He had so mixed up the questions before the House, however, that he was somewhat at a loss to know how it was possible to give a distinct vote upon the subject. He agreed, that if some inquiry were made into the rate and rule of granting pensions, very considerable benefit would accrue. There were different pensions for the army and navy, and he thought, that the commission was a fit tribunal to take them into consideration. The question of the armament of ships was one of very great importance, and it was one on which differences of opinion existed, and might very fairly exist. He should not now venture to give any opinion upon that subject, or upon any other of the numerous topics which had been touched upon; but he should be ready, on the discussion of the estimates, to give his opinion upon them, so far as he felt competent. With respect to the present motion, all its object was to
 1281
 Viscount Ingestrie  only rose to express his concurrence in the opinions of the gallant Admiral with respect to the propriety of an inquiry into those matters in which the navy were interested, and especially pensions, and he hoped that because it was said, that the commission could not undertake the investigation, there would be no reason given why the matter should not be referred to the Board of Admiralty.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that understanding the bill of his hon. Friend is intended to carry out the Reform Bill, and not to contravene it, he should not oppose
 1287
 Mr. Goring  would be glad if the time of polling was shortened, but, at the same time, the number of polling places ought to he increased. He believed, the Liberal party in Ireland were against giving each member of the constituency an opportunity of voting without being intimidated by the mob. He would appeal to the hon. Member for Tipperary whether the voters in that county had not frequently to travel upwards of eighty miles to Clonmel to record their votes. He would ask the hon. Gentleman whether it was his intention to introduce a clause appointing a polling place in each Barony, as it was useless to facilitate the acquisition of the franchise, unless the exercise of it was facilitated also.
 Mr. Hume  was sure, that if the hon. Gentleman had read the report respecting the number of polling places in England, he would not have asked the question. His hon. Friend could have no objection, and he (Mr. Hume) should wish to see the number of polling places so increased, that each voter would not have more than five miles to travel, and this he thought he might walk without putting the candidates to any expense—with regard to intimidation, he did not know whether the hon. Gentleman voted for the ballot, but the ballot was the proper remedy for intimidation. He would contend, that it was so—that improved registration, an increased number of polling places, and vote by ballot, were the proper remedies for diminishing the expenses of election and preventing intimidation.
 Colonel Perceval  hoped, that in any bill regulating the registration in Ireland, an appeal would be given both ways? for at present if the Assistant Barrister chose to grant the franchise there was no appeal from his decision, and hence there were many on the registry who had no right to be there. At present the register was regulated only once in eight years, and many who had been placed on the register in 1832 remained there yet, although their leases had expired—many men in this situation had produced their register dated in 1832 at the last Sligo election and had polled
 1288
 Sir R. Bateson  regretted, that the taking the polls in counties in one day, was not made a substantial part of the bill. That was the greatest defect in the Irish system. It was the cause of enormous expense, and of every species of demoralization and corruption. The evils under which they laboured were so notorious, that it was almost unnecessary to mention them. In counties, it was necessary to take a great body of electors forty, fifty, or even sixty miles to the place of polling. Suppose an election occurred in the depth of winter, and hundreds of people had to be taken over a mountainous country, the expense incurred was enormous, independent of keeping them three or four days in the county town, during which time, they might be assailed by the opposite party, and subjected to every species of corruption, bribery, and intimidation. If the poll was taken, as in this country, which was a great benefit conferred by the Reform Bill, the electors might come up in their own neighbourhood and poll, and return home at night. There would be an end of all pretence for the necessity of treating. It would also do away with the great cause of not and intimidation, for the result of the election would not be known. It would be the greatest blessing that could be conferred on Ireland, to assimilate the taking of the poll to that of England. With regard to the registration there was no law which needed more revision, and he regretted to find, that the hon. Member wished to keep the really beneficial part of the measure in the background.—Leave given.
 Sir George Strickland  said, the hon. Member had clearly enough exposed the evil; but he had not found a remedy.—As to the deterioration of the securities on the public tolls on turnpike roads by railroads, the results of the railroads were not at present clearly known.—For instance, in the case of the post-horse duty, which it was expected would have been quite annihilated by the railroads, the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the other night, had shown that this expectation was mistaken. And from the proposition of the Secretary for Ireland, as to Irish railways, it was doubtful what measures were to be taken by Government in respect to railways in general.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, there was no difference of opinion on the part of any of the Gentlemen who had addressed the House in the course of the debate, as to the importance of the establishment of a free port in the island of Gottland; but the question was, how, in a matter of internal legislation belonging exclusively to Sweden, that object could
 1304 1305
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had already, in answer to a noble Lord, stated the general feeling of her Majesty's Ministers upon this subject, namely, that they were not prepared to pass any measure for the repeal of this law. He admitted, that some regulation on the subject was neces-
 1311
 Lord Worsley  was of opinion, that many magistrates in the country were unaware of the powers which they possessed with regard to the regulation of beer houses. If they would carry those powers more stringently into effect, many of the evils now complained of might be prevented.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, he thought the only ground which the hon. Member had made out for a committee, was to inquire into the effect of railroads in deteriorating the securities on public roads. With respect to consolidation, there had been in both Houses committees  ad nauseam. 1285
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the hon. Member for Ipswich had, in the course of his speech, spoke of the absence of a British Minister from Stockholm; but the noble Lord had said in reply, that this arose from accident, was of no importance, and that there had been no complaint made about it. Now, he must say, that representations on the part of the British merchants had been brought under the notice
 1300
 Mr. C. Buller  was tempted to say a few words in consequence of his having said "No" to the statement of his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, that Lord Durham's report corroborated the charge made against Sir F. Head of issuing patents for land to turn the election. He did not speak to the words of the report (which he had not read so recently, perhaps, as the hon. Member), nor as to how far those words bore out the impression which he knew to have been made and impressed on Lord Durham's mind by the evidence taken with great pains on the spot. He was sure, however, that the object of the report was to free Sir F. Head from the charge of creating fictitious votes, and that conclusion was induced in Lord Durham's mind by the Commissioners of Crown lands, who had fully investigated the subject at Toronto. He could not be supposed to have any great temptation to defend Sir F. Head, but he had felt bound to set his hon. Friend right, and to assure him that, from the best information that could be collected, there was no ground for that imputation on Sir F. Head.
 Mr. P. Thomson  would be happy to meet the hon. Member for Kilkenny on both his points, either as to the neglect of British Ministers generally at foreign courts, or as to the neglect of the Ministers at Stockholm. He would confine himself, however, on the present occasion to the last point, and to the question of Slito. The papers connected with this subject had naturally come before him in the duties of his department, and he defied the hon. Member, or any of the hon. Gentlemen opposite who had any knowledge of the subject to point out any period at which one half the attention was paid to our British commercial matters in that country as had been the case in the last few years. Considerable correspondence had been carried on between the Ministers there and the Government here relating to a better system of commerce, in order that every facility might be afforded to the commercial connexion between the two countries, and no subject relating thereto had been passed over by the Chargé d'Affaires or other Minister, nor any opportunity lost of extending and securing the commercial inter-
 1302
 Mr. Baines  said, that it was his intention to have brought under the consideration of the House the propriety of going into a Committee of the whole House, for the purpose of ascertaining how far the First Fruits and Tenths of the Church might be made available to the augmentation of the maintenance of the livings of the poor clergy. Bet his noble Friend, the Secretary of State for the Home Department having, since his notice was entered on the books, intimated his intention of appropriating 130,000 l.
 Mr. A. Sanford  had great pleasure in seconding the motion. The measure proposed by his hon. Friend was of so moderate a nature, that he thought it would be very likely to be allowed to pass; but had it been of the same character as the one introduced in another place, he had no doubt it would meet with great opposition, and perhaps be defeated.
 Mr. Darby  observed, that there was a
 1303
 Mr. Darby  had voted against the bill of the hon. and gallant Member the previous Session, but upon that occasion he had said, that if the bill was modified it might have his support. The present bill of the hon. Member was a very different one from that of last year, and therefore he thought the taunts which the hon. and gallant Member had thrown out against hon. Members for dividing against him was not justified. He thought no good could arise from the Bill. According to the law at present, if any person committed perjury, and supported their case by perjury, they recovered, and so they would under the bill of the hon. Member. He (Mr. Darby) doubted if an innkeeper, when he gave notice that he would not be responsible for 100 l.,
 Mr. Grote  said, that the question before the House was one of considerable importance to a most respectable body of his constituents connected with the Baltic
 1299
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he should not allow himself by any observations which
 1315 1316 1317
 Mr. Warburton  said, if this bill were to be considered as a measure of police, applicable to all houses, as well those that sold spirits, as those that sold beer, he would give the hon. Member his best assistance to carry it through the House; but if it were to be confined to beer houses only, he should oppose it. A Committee of the House, which sat in 1835, recommended a general measure for the regulation of all houses that dealt in beer and spirits by retail; and as a proof that the beer houses were not conducted with less regularity and propriety than houses of other descriptions, he would refer hon. Members to a return which had been made this Session, by which it appeared that the convictions before magistrates, for disorderly conduct in spirit houses were 95 per cent., whereas the convictions in beer houses were only 5 per cent. With these facts before them were they to condemn the beer-houses and leave the spirit houses unnoticed? He wished the hon. Gentleman would distinctly state whether he intended his Bill to be a measure of police regulation, such as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had recommended? If so, he would give him his support.
 Mr. Warburton  thought the papers should be produced; first, because the English public were not generally informed of the importance of this station, and, secondly, that if they were laid on the Table their attention would be called to this subject, and consequently the attention of the Government would be drawn to it as well. There was no question about the importance of this station; and, in his opinion, it was of the utmost importance to establish the closest possible alliance between this country and Norway and Sweden.
 Mr. Warburton  thought the committee, as now proposed, would be premature, as it would have, if appointed, not to inquire into facts which had taken place, but to exercise the gift of prophecy. There was but one great line of railroad yet completed, viz., that from London to Liverpool, and surely it would be better to wait five or six years to ascertain what would be the result of the railways at present in progress of formation before any step was taken.
 Mr. Plumptre  doubted whether the Bill of his hon. Friend would effect the object which the people of this country desired; or would remove the evils which now existed. For his own part, he was anxious to put an end to the system of licensing
 1312
 Mr. Hume  said, it appeared, that the noble Lord either did not, or would not, understand what he was about. He only stated the opinions of some of our British merchants, and they certainly did think, that the British commercial interests had been neglected in the quarter referred to. If our Minister was not there, he ought to
 1301
 Mr. Hume  said, the right hon. Gentlemon seemed to think, that the motion, if carried, would cast a reflection on the noble Lord, now, the Secretary of State for the Colonies. If he thought there was any reason to draw that conclusion, he (Mr. Hume) would not persist, for he regarded with great satisfaction, that noble Lord's conduct towards Ireland, that he should not be the person to begin throwing reflections upon that noble Lord. On that ground, and trusting to the declarations of the right hon. Gentleman, he should consent to the amendment. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would give him privately the date of the despatch in which he was alluded to, as he had some letters of Sir F. Head's which might assist him.
 Mr. Hume  then rose to move for "copies of all despatches and correspondence which passed between Sir Francis Head, as Lieutenant-governor of Upper Canada, and the Colonial-office, and her Majesty's Ministers, during the time he held that office." He was induced to move for these papers in consequence of some accusations which had been brought against him, and because he was anxious to have the whole facts of the case put into the possession of the House, in order to show the situation in which this country had been placed by the conduct of that Governor. Since he had sat in Parliament no public officer had conducted himself in a manner similar to that individual had done. It was true that according to certain papers which had been laid on the Table of the House, and by garbled statements which had been published, that public officer had made out a very good case on his own account; and he had chosen at the same time to make attacks upon him (Mr. Hume). As soon as he could get the papers. he intended to bring the conduct of that officer before the House, and to show wherein he had departed from his duty. But that he could not do until he got the documents. He could not see why those documents should be kept back. A report from a committee of that officer's packed friends had been laid on the Table of the House, and his character had been implicated, and the public mind misled by it. He would undertake to prove that, if the Government would let him have all the papers he wanted. One of his letters had been
 1313 1314 C. Buller
 Mr. Hume  protested against any further pensions being granted, although he concurred with the hon. and Gallant Admiral, Sir E. Codrington, that a great many persons received pensions disproportioned to their services, while there were many persons in the army and navy who did not receive adequate remuneration. In the returns of the last year, it would be found that upwards of 11,000,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. P. Howard  thought that every lover of even-handed justice would agree with his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, in the observations he had made. It would create great alarm in the country, if the House were to adopt the proposition in the shape now suggested by the hon. Member.
 Mr. M. Gibson  rose to move for a return of any dispatches, communications, and correspondence that have passed between the British mission at Stockholm and her Majesty's Minister for Foreign Affairs, during the years 1837 and 1838, relative, to the port of Slito, in the island
 1294 1295 bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide 1296 1297
 Mr. Gibson,  in reply, said, the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had admitted that his statement as to there having been no Consul in Sweden the last sixteen months, was correct; but he added, that, although such was the case, nevertheless there was a person at Stockholm who performed the duties of Consul quite as well as if he had been appointed. Now, that might be satisfactory if the House considered that an alien, a native of Sweden, a man engaged in trade, the partner in an extensive mercantile house in Stockholm, not trading even with this country, a man receiving no salary, and responsible to no one would be as fit to look after the interests of this country as a British subject. Unless they considered this, they could not admit the argument of the noble Lord, but for his (Mr. Gibson's) own part, he must say that it was monstrous to intrust the duties of consul to this kind of person, and the more especially when they must know that his whole time was fully occupied by his own concerns. When he found, that there had been no British Consul in Stockholm for nearly seventeen months, he must presume, that there was some truth in the rumour which was current, that our interests had been neglected at Stockholm. The parliamentary ground on which he rested his motion,
 1307
 Mr. Mackinnon  would detain the House but a very short time in bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice. He wished this measure had been taken up by the Government, or by the hon. Member for Hants (Mr. S. Lefevre). In 1836, in a committee, of which he had the honour of being Chairman, and after investigating the matter as far as possible, they felt compelled to come to the same determination as the committee of the House of Lords. His object was to obtain a select committee for the purpose of taking into consideration the best means, in the first place, of consolidating the various turnpike trusts throughout Great Britain, which had been recommended by committees of both Houses. His next object was, to ascertain in what manner the 8,000,000 l. 1284 ex post facto
 Mr. Mackinnon  consented to that alteration.
 Mr. Mackinnon  did not think the hon. Member, the Under Secretary for the Home Department, had stated the case fairly. If the House adopted the suggestion of the hon. Member for Bridport, they would wait until much more mischief had been done, which it was the object of the committee he proposed to appoint, to avert. If the House granted that committee, clauses might be introduced in all future railway bills to prevent the mischief which was likely to take place. He would however withdraw the motion in conformity with the suggestion of the hon. Member opposite.
 Sir Charles Adam  said, that, with respect to the observation made by the noble Viscount (Viscount Howick) on the subject of the commission, he might state at once that the most complete inquiry had been made into the several means of promotion and retirement of officers of the army and navy. As to any further duties being placed upon that commission, he was gratified to hear the opinion expressed by the noble Viscount, backed as it was by that of his Grace, the Duke of Wellington, and he believed, that no further inquiry was necessary to carry the desired object into effect. With regard to many of the topics alluded to by the hon. and gallant Member for Devonport, he conceived that their further consideration had much better be postponed until to-morrow, when the whole subject would again be under discussion. But, at the same time, he conceived that as the commission had not yet published its report, it would be premature to enter into the inquiry which was proposed at all. As to the peace complements, to which allusion had been made, he thought it was requisite to keep up a sufficient number of men for the protection of commerce, and also for the carrying into effect any treaty which might be entered into. It had been said, "Let there be fewer ships and more men;" but he said, "Have as many ships as can be properly managed." The system which had been adopted having given very general satisfaction to the country, he could only regret that anything should have occurred which should have justified Captain Berkeley in putting before the public that pamphlet which hi had written, the effect of which was hi retirement from the Board. He sincerely regretted that that should have been the result of the publication of the pamphlet for there was no man who sat at the Board
 1282
 Sir E. Codrington  in reply, only asked for pensions for those who had been severely wounded, and who were entitled to them for their services. A complaint had been made that he had not brought this subject on when the estimates were moved, but he begged leave to say he would; grasp every opportunity for advocating the r cause of the navy—it was a duty he had prescribed to himself, and he was determined to pursue it. He felt justified in having called the attention of the House
 1283
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, after the very able speech made by the hon. the Secretary of the Admiralty last night, he was anxious to avoid troubling the House with a repetition of the matters of detail which were then so fully explained; but, notwithstanding the ample consideration which the House then bestowed upon the state and efficiency of the British navy, there were several points of great importance which were not touched upon; and in particular, the condition of the officers and men. Such being the case, he felt himself called upon to press the subject on the attention of the House and the Government. He knew, from a life of lengthened service, what was really wanted by the officers and the men; and his object in bringing their case under the attention of the House, was, to endeavour to prevail upon the Government to do that which he believed to be but bare justice, and requisite, to banish all cause of discontent from the officers and men in our naval service. The question was one easy of arrangement—a question of regulations; and discontent existed owing to those regulations, from the admiral down to the very lowest class and portion of the service. The House should consider the position in which our navy was placed by the maintenance of what is termed the peace complements. No ship in the British navy should ever be sent to sea, without having such a complement of men, and being fitted out in every respect in such a way as to enable her to meet and be fit to contend with any exigency she may have to encounter. He would enable the House to determine, whether our ships of war are manned in such a manner as to enable them to meet such exigencies. In our naval engagements of the 1st of June and 29th of May, or Lord Howe's engagement in which he served, we had eleven men to every 18-pounder, and thirteen to 32-pounders; but at the battle of Navarino, he had only, on an average, nine and a-half men to every 32-pounder. Now, he asked the House, whether a constant diminution in the number of men to our guns was safe for the public interest, or just to the officers in command, or men who are afloat? He was unwilling to go over the same matter
 1264 l. s. l. 1265 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1266 s., s., s. s. s. 1267 s. l. l. l. 1268 d. 1269 s. s., s. l. s. 1270 1271 1272 1273 l. l., 1274
 Sir G. Grey  observed, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had spoken of garbled statements laid on the Table by the Government. The despatch which had contained the allusion was produced last Session, and he felt it due to Lord Glenelg to state, that, on laying that paper before Parliament, he had communicated to Sir F. Head, that he had omittted that para-
 1318
 Captain Pechell  did not mean to enter at all into the question between Sir John Barrow and the Admiralty, but he must express his extreme satisfaction tit the manner in which the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary to the Admiralty, had performed his duty last night. He did so in the most effective manner, and he Should have been glad to have had an opportunity of stating on the spot that tribute to which he considered the hon. Gentleman was entitled. Although he agreed in some of the facts which he had stated, he must at the same time say, that he had some difficulty in agreeing with the hon. Gentleman in same of his points. He regretted, that the noble Viscount, the Secretary at War, had said, that it was not the intention of the commission to take into its consideration all these matters; but he felt still greater pain when he heard, that the same opinion was entertained by his Grace the Duke of Wellington. He must concur with the gallant Admiral in what he had said, and he must express his belief, that the officers of the navy were not placed in that position to which they were entitled, The peerage was not open to them, and there was not one of them who had arrived at those honours which he was sure the country would be glad to see showered upon them. In the late installation of the Order of the Bath only four naval officers received the appointment; and the same system was observed in the selection of the governors of the various colonies. Let the House look to France and see how the Government of that country acted. It had appointed many of the naval officers to such situations, and he begged to inquire whether the consulships of Calais, of Boulogne, and of Bordeaux might not very well be filled by such persons? It would be very proper, besides, that the pages of her Majesty should be introduced into the navy as well as the army, and that a commission should be offered to one of-them for the former service in the course of every year. With respect to the pensions, he hoped, that the Government would well consider the position of naval officers. At present pensions which had been granted for good services were taken from the officers on their being appointed to any situation, even though the appoint-
 1279 1280 s. d. l. s. d. l. l.
 Captain Pechell  on behalf of a very numerous, respectable, and deserving class of society, asked the House to give him leave to bring in a bill to relieve them from some of their liabilities. The innkeepers had patiently waited for
 1289 l. l. l. l. reticule. l.; 1290 l.
 Sir George Staunton,  as a friend of Sir John Barrow, to whom allusion had been made, begged to say, that that individual had been a servant of the country during thirty years, and that he thought, that the House would not consider, that they threw away any time which they might Occupy in an inquiry into his case Sit John Barrow did not publish his work in his capacity of Secretary to the Admiralty, and it must be taken therefore to contain his own individual opinions. In anything which Sir John Barrow said in that work, he was sure, that he did not wish to wound the feelings of any individual; but when charges were made by others, he thought, that he was justified in making such an answer as he could to them, and he was of opinion, that in what he had said he had done so satisfactorily, for in the state-
 1278
 Mr. Ward  said, that to employ the language of remonstrance in a case of the kind, would be to use a species of coercion, which neither Government would be justified in exercising towards a friendly Power, in regard to its internal interests. If he supported the motion of the hon. Gentleman, that support would rest more on the speeches of the hon. Gentleman's opponents than on his own. However clearly the hon. Gentleman had made out his case, still he (Mr. Ward) did not think it a case which called for the interference of that House. There was no violation of British interests, no disregard of British remonstrance. This was not a case, therefore, for Parliamentary interference. The support which he should give to the motion of the hon. Gentleman rested on the speech of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. The noble Lord laid down as a maxim, that British diplomacy ought not to meddle in such an affair, but if this were so, of what possible value could diplomacy be in the mercantile affairs of this country. He thought this a proper case for diplomatic interference, and when it was found that Russian influence was employed to prevent the establishment of a free port at Slito, was it not the duty of the representative of British interests at
 1306
 The Attorney-General  did not think the time of the House had been very well occupied, notwithstanding the very amusing anecdotes the hon. Member had given. The hon. Member himself utterly abandoned the principle he set out on, because he allowed, that innkeepers were to be liable for all goods in their care. Why? Because there was a liability cast on them by law and necessity; the danger was so great for fraudulent collusion between an innkeeper and his servants, that the traveller would have no security without this responsibility. But the hon. and gallant Captain said, the character of innkeepers were so marvellously improved that they might now trust them with anything. Was that since the last Session of Parliament? It was a very rapid improvement. There had been last Session an almost unanimous determination not to alter the law; but now there had been such a complete and sudden improvement in the characters of innkeepers, that they might trust entirely to their honour. The hon. Member advocated responsibility of innkeepers as to goods, but not as to money. If it were confined to invisible money, he could have no objection, provided it were shown to the innkeeper. He (the Attorney-General) would extend the responsibility to the purses of travellers. He thought it very hard that a traveller going on his journey, with the greater part of his property in his purse, should be liable to have that property stolen from him while under the roof of the landlord, very probably by the servant, while he was asleep.
 1291
 Mr. Pakington,  in rising pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to alter and amend the laws relating to the sale of beer, said, though he was fully aware of the importance of this subject, both as it affected the morals and the comforts of the people, and the finances of the country, he should not enter into any opinions of his own upon those points at the present moment, but should content himself with briefly stating the heads of the measure which he now proposed to introduce; reserving what he had to say upon the obnoxious and pernicious features of the present system till the second reading of the bill. He was the more induced to take this course, because he believed that there would be no opposition to the introduction of his bill, though he fully anticipated it would meet with a good deal of opposition from various quarters in its future stages. He begged to state, in the first place, that he had no intention to repeal the Beer Act, nor to do what would amount to a virtual repeal of it, namely, to impose any restrictions which should prevent the sale of beer. With respect to the consumption of beer on the premises, although he was not pre-
 1310
 Mr. M. Phillips  said, the hon. and gallant Member who had brought forward this motion had often distinguished himself by local legislation, and if he would confine the bill to the town of Brighton he would not oppose it.—But being anxious to protect the commercial interests, with which he was more immediately connected, he must say, that he believed this bill would sap the very foundations of security for travellers: and that it was much better, both for commercial travellers and for innkeepers, that the law should remain as it was now.
 Viscount Howick  did not rise for the purpose of making any remarks upon the subject of the case of any officer, of the intention to refer to which no notice had been given, but he merely addressed the House as a member of the naval and military commission, and he begged to express
 1277
 Viscount Palmerston  said, it appeared to him that the general practice of that House was, that a Member who proposed to call for papers should show sufficient parliamentary grounds for the motion he made. It did not appear to him that the hon. Gentleman had laid any such ground for the present motion. The hon. Gentleman had expatiated on the advantages which he conceived English commerce would derive from the establishment of Slito as a free port. That point he was not at all disposed to contest with the hon. Gentleman. There was no doubt that it would be advantageous to our commerce if Slito were made a free port. He was quite sum that it would be advantageous to our commerce if as many free ports as possible were established in all foreign countries. On that point there was no question between him and the hon. Gentleman. But the point that he did contest with the hon. Gentleman was, that this House or the English Government had not any business to meddle with the internal affairs of the government of Sweden. The question whether Slito was to be, or was not to be a free port, belonged to the government of Sweden to determine. If the Russian government had interfered, and if they had attempted to induce the Swedish government to refuse this concession, it had done what was exceedingly improper. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that he did not consider himself at liberty to take any active steps with a view to influence the government of Sweden in the matter to which he had alluded. Therefore, the return to his motion, if the House should agree to it, would simply be a statement from the  chargé d'affaires chargé d'affaires 1298 chargé d'affaires, chargé d'affaires Laughter chargé d'affaires. chargé d'affaires chargé d'affaires,
 Viscount Palmerston  said, there was no inconsistency between his statement and that of his right hon. Friend, for his right hon. Friend had not said that the production of the papers in question would be detrimental to any proceedings on the part of the Government, but that it would most likely defeat the object of the hon. Mover.
 Viscount Palmerston  said it was perfectly true, as his hon. Friend had stated, that he did press the appointment of a particular individual as consul at Stockholm some months ago, and it was also perfectly true, that for certain reasons he had thought it his duty not to appoint that person; but his hon. Friend was mistaken if he thought that the appointment was still vacant for there was an individual performing the duties of that situation as well as the individual whom his hon. Friend had named, would have done.
 Sir G. Strickland  felt it to be his duty to move, that the bill be committed that day six months. On the second reading of the bill he had stated his strong objections to it. It was a bill which proposed to take the management of all parish roads out of the hands of the landed proprietors and farmers who now had the management of them, and to place it in the hands of a Board to be appointed under the bill. He would not consent to any such alteration unless an absolute necessity could be shown for it. The people were perfectly satisfied with the present management of the parish roads, and in his opinion no such necessity existed. He recollected, that when Mr. M'Adam first undertook the management of the roads in his (Sir G. Strickland's) district, that gentleman gave it as his decided opinion, that as the turnpike roads were improved an improvement would take place in the parish roads as a consequence, and the event had shown the correctness of this opinion. He had also another ground of objection to the bill as it had been originally introduced into the House—it had been proposed to place the management of the roads in the hands of the Board of Guardians of the Poor-law Unions, now he considered that the Board of Guardians of the Poor-law
 1320
 Mr. Barneby  was surprised at the objection raised by the hon. Baronet to the alteration made in the bill, because on referring to the proceedings in the committee on this bill last year, he found, that the hon. Baronet himself proposed that boards of management should be constituted co-extensive with the unions. He trusted the House would allow the bill to go into committee, where any alterations could be made which might be deemed necessary.
 Sir George Strickland  said, that he had always felt the strongest repugnance to this measure, at the same time he was sure the hon. Gentleman would bear testimony to his having stated, in the committee of last year, that he would not give
 1321
 Mr. Slaney  hoped his hon. Friend (Sir G. Strickland) would not divide the House upon the question of going into committee. Every country gentleman was interested in promoting an improvement of the present system by which the highways were managed; and after the great labours during several Sessions which men of the highest talent and experience had bestowed upon this measure, he trusted the House would feel bound to proceed, and legislate upon the subject.
 Mr. R. Palmer  said, that so far as the measure went to appoint district surveyors; he thought the arrangement judicious, but, with respect to the proposition for placing the superintendance of the roads under the management of a Board, he would decidedly object to it.
 Mr. Fielden  supported the Amendment, and declared, that unless the House wished to perpetuate the present heart-burnings and discontent, they ought not to pass this bill. It was nothing but an attempt to take the local government out of the hands of those who had contributed towards the repair of the highways.
 Mr. Barneby  said, that he thought, that too great authority was already given to the guardians of the poor, and he should, therefore, propose to take from them the power to appoint the district surveyors, which was proposed by this section to be placed in their hands. He moved, therefore, that the word "guardian" should be struck out, and that the words "shall be chosen and appointed in such manner as hereinafter provided," should be inserted in its place. He should, then, at a future stage, bring up those clauses which be requisite to complete the provisions, and which would necessarily embody matters of great importance and complication.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the impropriety of endeavouring to legislate piecemeal was here exhibited, for if a general board had been appointed, as he had before suggested, this difficulty would not have arisen. He suggested, that the clauses intended to be introduced before they were determined on should be printed.
 Lord John Russell  could not say, that the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Worcestershire, ought to be adopted, but he agreed with the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that as there was great complication in the mode of election of the officers, it would be better to let the House see what they were, in order that hon. Members might judge of the propriety of their being adopted.
 Mr. Egerton  thought, that the question which would arise as to the extent of the districts was one of very great importance,
 1324
 Lord Stanley  understood, that it was agreed, that this clause should be postponed until after Easter, in order that it and its accompanying clauses might be printed; but, at the same time, it would be exceedingly important to his hon. Friend, the Member for Worcestershire, that the principle upon which he should frame the new clauses in reference to the extent of the districts should be determined upon, because if he were to proceed upon the understanding, that the districts should be co-extensive with the Poor-law unions, and the House should prove to be of an opinion opposed to such a provision being introduced, all his trouble would be thrown away. It would be better, therefore, that the hon. Member for North Cheshire, or some other individual who was altogether opposed to making them co-extensive with the districts already marked out under the Poor-law Act, should move an amendment to that effect.
 Mr. Hume  said, that his opinion was, that the larger the districts were the better; and he thought one surveyor for each county would be sufficient,
 Colonel Wood  thought, that the present system would be insured by any alteration which had not for its effect the placing new powers in the hands of the Poor-law guardians, for by that means a great saving would be secured in the employment of the poor on the roads.
 Mr. Shaw  Lefevre quite agreed as to the importance of a decision being arrived at whether these matters should be left to the government of a district or a parochial
 1325
 Mr. G. Palmer  was of opinion, that no more power should be given to the guardians of the Poor-law unions, for it was sufficiently clear, that they were already powerful enough. The time would come when they would be able even to rule this House itself. He conceived, that the best mode of settling this question would be to give the power of appointing the district surveyors to the magistrates.
 Viscount Dungannon  was opposed to the establishment of boards in any shape, and was glad the sense of the House was to be taken on this question. He entirely concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Essex. To such a pass had the appointment of commissions arrived, that one could scarcely cross the street without being afraid of stumbling against a commission. He should give his vote in favour of the proposition of the hon. Member for Cheshire.
 Mr. Aglionby  said hon. Gentlemen were straying from the real question before the House, which was what should be the boundary of the district, and whether it ought not to be co-extensive with the Poor-law union.
 Sir John Owen  was opposed to the appointment of all boards; but if there was to be a hoard appointed he would advise his hon. Friend to compose it of barristers of six months' standing.
 Mr. Henry Berkeley  would not detain the House for a moment. He wished only to reply to an expression which last night fell from the gallant Admiral, the first naval Lord of the Admiralty (Sir Charles Adam), an expression which, in justice to a near relative of his, he could not very well let pass. He understood (for he was not himself present at the moment) that the gallant Admiral, alluding to the publication of Captain Berkeley's pamphlet, said, that "Captain Berkeley had forgotten himself." Now, so far from thinking that his brother had forgotten himself, he (Mr. H. Berkeley) thought he had never better recollected what was due to himself and to the service to which he belonged. He would further say, that if the first naval Lord, and the noble civilian at the head of the Board of Admiralty equally recollected what was due to the service, they would not have put his brother to the trouble of pushing the measure which they had now carried. It was painful to him to recur to matters of a personal nature. He felt the other evening, that it was necessary for him to make an explanation touching his brother but he should avoid as much as possible, if other Gentlemen would do the same, any recurrence to that subject for the future. In addition to this he would simply add, that to the principle advocated by his brother he still adhered; and, although he was perfectly prepared to offer no opposition to the vote now brought forward, yet at a future time he should take an opportunity of placing upon the books of the House a motion to the effect, that there should be but one standing complement for the ships of her Majesty's navy.
 Viscount Ingestrie  said, the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary to the Admiralty, the other night made a most luminous and perspicuous statement of the condition of the navy, but he began it with an assertion, that the Admiralty administration of the navy had been the subject of party attacks for the last six months. He regretted to say, that the hon. Gentleman seemed to wish to continue that party spirit in all the observations he made; for of his speech from beginning to end, he must say, that he never heard such antithesis of Tory and Whig in any speech he had listened to since he had had the honour of having a seat in Parliament. That was not a line of conduct which he would pursue; because he considered the navy of his country of paramount importance, and that all party feelings should be subordinate to that service. He was not disposed to quarrel with any particular party or Government; if he were to quarrel with any one, perhaps he should begin with her Majesty's cheeseparer general, the hon. Member for Kilkenny. The hon. Member had long stood before the public as the advocate of retrenchment, and no doubt thought he was doing the State some service in the course he pursued; but the result was the best proof of that. The hon. Gentleman, the Secretary to the Admiralty, had told the House, that there was a much greater number of ships in commission than at any period since the peace. He admitted that. But the hon. Gentleman forgot to mention at the same time the state of our relations abroad, and our position in comparison with foreign nations. We had had a great colony in a state of revolt. The navy of France and of Russia had been increased; and the state of things generally was such as required our navy to be placed on a very different footing. The hon. Gentleman had alluded to a pamphlet which had been published by "A Flag Officer." He did not profess to be
 1374 
 
 Number of men at home. 
 In 1823 the number of seamen and Marines voted was 25,000 8,000 
 In 1828 30,000 9,639 
 In 1833 27,000 9,303 
 In 1834 27,000 2,865 
 In 1835 25,500 2,539 
 
 Number of men at home. 
 In 1836 the number of seamen and Marines voted was 32,700 5,467 
 In 1838 33,000 5,254 1375 C. Wood 1376 l l l s l l l l l l l s s l l l l l l 1377 l
 Viscount Ingestrie  resumed. Why, the Gorgon had been obliged to be again caulked, and he thought he could safely contradict the hon. and gallant Admiral, and say, that the Gorgon was the worst ship that ever swam. There were many other minor points to which at that hour he would not allude. He must, however, mention that 15 per cent. was charged on slops furnished to the men by Government; that ought not to be. Plain tobacco was charged to the men at 1 s d d
 Captain Gordon  said, that there were so many hon. Members who wished to deliver their sentiments on this important subject, that he felt called upon to move,
 1378
 Captain Gordon  objected to that course, for if the vote of the number of men was taken, there would be an end of the debate. He must, therefore, persist in his motion.
 Viscount Ingestrie , in explanation, said he concluded the hon. Member alluded to what had fallen from him (Lord Ingestrie,) and he begged to state that he had no wish to say anything personally offensive to the hon. Member. He had not alluded to the hon. Member in private life, but only to the course pursued by the hon. Member in that House.
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion, that this was devolving upon a Committee of the House a duty which ought to be discharged by her Majesty's Ministers.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, that if the Government had come down to the House for a vote, with a view to carry into effect the recommendations contained in Mr. Walker's report respecting the Caledonian Canal, the hon. Member for Kilkenny would have been the first to have suggested that before a work of that extraordinary nature, and before the recommendations of what might be called an extraordinary report, were adopted, the
 1379
 Sir R. Peel  thought the objection of the hon. Member for Kilkenny a perfectly just one. The proposal was not (according to the terms of the notice) that a Select Committee should be appointed to consider the state of the Caledonian Canal, and to make such observations upon it as they might think proper, which would have been the correct mode of wording the motion;
 1380
 Mr. R. Steuart  admitted, that the notice of motion was as the right hon. Baronet had stated; but the words of his motion were precisely those which he had suggested. By a subsequent motion he intended to refer the report to the Committee.
 Lord Ashley , at that late hour would not detain the House at any length, but he felt it his duty to make a few remarks in reply to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary to the Admiralty, the other night. He understood, that the hon. Gentleman had regretted his absence, had he been aware that the hon. Gentleman intended to make any remarks upon him that night he certainly should have been in his place. He saw the hon. Gentleman in the lobby some time pre-
 1368 l l 1369 1370 l l l l l l l l l l 1371 l l l l l l s d s 1372
 Lord John Russell  would, in the first
 1319
 Mr. C. Wood  was anxious to answer many of the observations which had been made in the course of the debate, but as every vote in the estimates had been discussed, he hoped to be allowed to take the first vote now—that as to the number of men—and then that any hon. Member should state his views to the House on another vote being proposed, on a subsequent day.
 Mr. Hume  wished to say one word. A gallant officer had applied to him (Mr. Hume) the epithet that he was a skin-flint, and the cheese-parer to her Majesty. He begged to say, that he would rather have that epithet applied to him, than that he should deserve the name of a skinback, which was applied to many in the sea service.
 Mr. Bernal  read the first vote, for 34,165 men for the service of the ensuing year.
 Mr. T. Duncombe . The noble Lord had denied, that any measures had been resorted to by her Majesty's Government to defeat the resolution of that House, but he would prove, that very unprecedented measures had been taken by them for that purpose. He hoped there would be no delay in giving that correspondence, because he believed the honour, and character, and independence, of that house were involved in the course which her Majesty's Ministers had presumed to take. The hon. Member then moved for a copy of any correspondence between Monday last and the present time.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, understanding that her Majesty's Ministers had taken strong measures to defeat the resolution which that House had come to the other evening, respecting the theatres in Westminster. He begged to ask whether the noble Lord would have any objection to lay upon the Table of the House the whole of the correspondence which had passed between the Lord Chamberlain and the lessee of Drury lane theatre.
 Admiral Sir C. Adam  rose to address the Committee with great reluctance and diffidence, for he was aware, that he was by no means competent to follow so practised a debater as the hon. Baronet. The statements of the hon. Gentleman as to matters of fact were such as he could answer, and he was much mistaken if he could not answer them to the satisfaction of the hon. Gentleman, who sat behind him, and of the public at large. The hon. Baronet had commenced his speech with a reference to the question of foreign politics, into which he did not propose to enter, as there were other Gentlemen who were not only more competent than he, but whose peculiar province it was to discuss that question. The hon. Baronet had then proceeded to the subject of having guard ships in our ports, and maintained that we now pursued a bad mode of keeping up a force fur defending our shores. Now, eleven half-manned guard-ships were certainly better than nothing at all. He remembered when the necessity occurred for sending a force to Portugal. These ships were brought forward in a most effective manner, and did their duty well; but then they only went armed  en flute 1342 1343 1344 1345 1346 An hon. Member: 1347 1348
 Sir C. Adam  said, he should be sorry if
 1373
 Sir C. Adam  owed the noble Lord some apology for the returns to which he had alluded not being now on the Table, but he could assure the noble Lord, when he had come to look at them, he had found they required a great deal of preparation, and that it was necessary to send abroad for some of them which were required. He would, however, lay them on the Table to-morrow. With regard to the Gorgon, the noble Lord was entirely mistaken, for Lord John Hay had reported her to surpass any war steamer that was ever launched.
 Sir C. Adam  must beg to deny that fact; look at the Gorgon for instance.
 Sir Edward Codrington  rose under a great disadvantage after the right hon. Baronet, but he hoped the House would allow him to make a few observations. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet in the principles he had laid down with respect to demonstration-ships. Whatever might be the strength of the fleet in commission it became the country to have a certain number of ships ready in case of emergency. Without that additional naval force, in no period of history had we been able to carry our intentions into execution. There ought to be ships always ready to be brought forward at a moment's notice. The only difference of opinion was, as to whether this should be brought forward that way, or in another. It had been found that those demonstration-ships were not in a state of readiness as they would have been if the stores had been prepared in the dock-yard. He had known many instances where ships had been supposed to be ready, where the rigging had been supposed to be in good order, but when they came to be examined it was found the rigging would not bear the strain of sea service, and, in short, it was found there was more to undo than there was to do. It might be easy to get stores upon an emergency, but it was not so easy to get men. The obtaining of stores was of secondary importance. He knew it took a great deal of time to make a real seaman. He was sorry that the House did not seem to be aware of the real value of good seamen. There was no class of men under the sun who were worse treated than British seamen. Seamen were not paid at their value, and this led into a point that had been gently touched upon,
 1364 1365 d 1366 d 1367 l
 Sir G. Clerk  wished to make some observations on the speech of the hon. Gentleman (the Secretary to the Admiralty) on Monday evening. He had listened to
 1327 1328 1329 1330 1331 J. Russell 1332 "It came to be a great consideration that when multiplied demands were made from various parts of the world for the protection of our commerce, which could not be neglected, it was impossible to diminish the force necessary to guard it, and it was requisite to keep a large force constantly in a body ready to act on any point where it might be needed. It was necessary to keep such forces in various parts of the world." 1333 "They might, but at very considerable inconvenience; I tried that in 1822; I think that was our lowest vote of seamen; I struck the masts of the guardships, and put them into what I call a sufficient state of security, but being in a state to be very soon made efficient; and I reduced their complements to the boats' crews, and the number of men necessary to keep the ships clean, it produced a very considerable degree of dissatisfaction, and after a short time circumstances obliged us to give them again their half complements, but certainly they might be reduced again, though in such a case we should be obliged, perhaps, to take the whole of the coast blockade if we wanted our ships in a hurry, instead of leaving a certain number to carry on the duty as at present; the ships would be as good ships, and they would be ready soon; they are now kept with their masts up, and ready in every respect as ships of war; their masts were struck in 1822, and they had nothing but the boats' crews on hoard of them." "In case of any sudden emergency calling for a naval force, would not the expense of raising that force, and preparing it for service, be in a very considerable proportion increased upon the whole being to be brought forward on a sudden momentary call?" 1334 "No doubt of that; because we should be forced to give greater pay for exertion to bring forward that which would otherwise be ready; there is no doubt, at least I am strongly impressed with an idea, that there would be great difficulties in doing it at all, if our seamen are intercepted in their way home, and we have no  nucleus 1335 nucleus 1336 1337 1338 1339 C. Adam: Wood: 1340 en flute; 1341
 Sir James Graham  said, that many years had now elapsed since his official connexion with naval affairs had terminated. During that interval, his attention had been directed to other subjects. Whatever he might think of the measures adopted by his successors, with respect to those in which he himself bore a part he had been content, and was still content to leave them to the unerring test of experience. In the large changes which it was his lot to introduce in the most important branches of naval administration, he had had the good fortune to be assisted by naval officers of the highest reputation, amongst others by an hon. Friend, who was at that period his colleague, but who, much to his honour, still thought the post of difficulty the post of honour. Satisfied, as he was, that the measures then adopted would bear the test of discussion, if he was entitled to any share of the credit which might attach to them, he would not shrink from the responsibility of defending them. He referred with pleasure to the opening statement of his hon. Friend, the Secretary of the Admiralty, made the other evening. He was
 1349 1350 razée 1351 1352 1353 1354 1355 "Admiralty, June 14, 1834. "As my last act before leaving this Board, I consider it my duty, in the most earnest manner, to impress upon my successor the paramount importance of keeping at all times ready to receive men, twelve sail of the line, and six large frigates, in addition to the ships which may be in commission. When I say, ready to receive men, I mean their standing rigging over the mast head, their topmast pointed, their lower yards across, all their internal fittings complete, and their ground tier of tanks on board. On a sudden emergency it is impossible to calculate the advantage which this state of preparation affords; and I speak from experience when I declare, that if reliance be placed on a state of ordinary to meet the exigencies of a sudden armament, with efficient dispatch, disappointment will ensue, and national danger may be the consequence. France, Russia, all the naval powers, keep constantly a large portion of their fleet in this advanced state of preparation; but when I compare the number of their ships, and the limited sphere within which they move, with our reduced peace establishment, and our ships of war in commission, scattered throughout the world for the protection of our commerce, I am convinced, that prudence and policy dictate the necessity of having a force concentrated and ready in our harbours, at once to proceed to sea, at soon as men can be obtained. This force should be equally divided between Portsmouth, Plymouth, and the Medway, to prevent confusion, and to insure celerity when an armament takes place; and the admirals and captains superintendents, at those ports should be held strictly responsible for the constant state of perfect efficiency in which these ships should be kept without fail. Their rigging must be removed from time to time, and their masts and spars overhauled; but the cost is insignificant compared with the national advantage of having this force instantly available, without the risk of disappointment. To insure these ships being constantly ready, I would recommend, that as ships of these classes are brought forward for commission, they should be taken from the number thus prepared. I have mentioned the raising of men as the necessary limit to dispatch in preparing for sea. I may be allowed to observe, that the coast guard, as now constituted, is to a certain extent a reserve of prime seamen; but whatever measures may be adopted, founded on registration, to regulate compulsory service, it never should be forgotten, that in moments of real danger impress alone is the sure and rapid means of obtaining the necessary supply, and the surrender of this prerogative of the Crown will, in my judgment, be the death-blow to the naval supremacy of this country." 1356 l l l 1357 1358 1359 1360 1361 1362 s l l l l 1363
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to move an amendment in the way of an addition to the motion of the right hon. Gentleman with the view of obtaining some further information—more comprehensive returns than those which should be made under his motion. He wished for returns of the same nature and for the same period as regarded England and Wales, and he desired to learn, from the authority of the Chair, the proper time in point of order for submitting such an amendment.
 Mr. Colquhoun  disclaimed attributing any undue motives to the noble Lord opposite. Their charge was against the policy of Government. They imputed no motives to the noble Lord but those which became the high and responsible station he held. The noble Lord had taunted his right hon. Friend with making no other motion but a simple call for returns. Surely, before proceeding further, it was desirable that they should know the true state of circumstances so much disputed. The question between her Majesty's Government and the Opposition was one of fact, and they ought first to ascertain the facts. The noble Lord had said that his own Government afforded but one more melancholy illustration in which crime had predominated in Ireland. But there was this distinguishing characteristic between the Government of the noble Lord, and that of all his predecessors, that all other Administrations had used their utmost efforts to diminish crime, regardless of party, and without boasting of tranquillity while the present Administration talked of peace and tranquillity with such a state of things as the noble Lord had been forced to acknowledge, existed in Ireland. A noble Lord in another place had talked of the growing tranquillity of Ireland, and in one of the addresses which had been presented to Lord Normanby on retiring from the Lord-lieutenancy he found the following expressions:—"Under the benign rule of your Excellency, justice has prevailed to an extent unknown before, and tranquillity and security have been extended to all parts of the country." These were the terms in which the Irish Government were lauded, even at the time when the noble Lord opposite had been compelled to acknowledge that there was in Ireland a frightful extent of outrage and crime. The noble Lord had stated, that during the Irish administration of the present Government there had been a decrease of crime and an increase of peace, and to prove the truth of that position, to what documents had the noble Lord had recourse? He had taken
 86 Morpeth: 87 88 89 90 "I cannot but grieve over the depraved character of the people; and I must say, I am persuaded that those murderers are open to instruction, and that if they were properly prepared by the precepts of religion, they could be restrained from outrage. Certainly the people could be humanized, and a heavy responsibility rests upon those men who are their spiritual instructors, should they neglect their duty. Very many murders have been committed by persons on their return from the house of God, and I cannot believe that there they had been taught the precepts of religion, when so soon after leaving they have been found guilty of such crimes." 91 92 93
 Mr. Pigot  said, that at this stage of the debate he did not feel himself authorized to trespass on the House with any very lengthened remarks; and it certainly was not his intention to enter into a detailed notice of all the observations which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He thought, however, that he had an undoubted right to complain of the course which that hon. Mem-
 94 data, 95 96 97 98
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  concurred with the hon. Gentleman in his last observation, that this was a question of facts rather than argument; he would, therefore, refer as a fact to an address to Lord Normanby, on the occasion of his quitting Ireland, which was adopted by a large meeting of the magistrates, gentry, and inhabitants of the county of Waterford, over which the high sheriff of the county presided. They declared their conviction that during the time that the Marquess of Normanby had administered the affairs in Ireland, the laws had been enforced with vigour and dispatch—that crimes had been assiduously detected and promptly prosecuted—that he had exercised the prerogative of mercy judiciously, in a reasonable spirit, and with sober discrimination, and that he was a clever ruler and a just judge. Hon. Gentlemen might give what credit they pleased to this testimony; but it was, nevertheless, the opinion of a very large majority of the people of the county of Waterford. Much had been said of the illegal proceedings of the peasantry of Ireland, whenever the law of ejectment was resorted to; but he would ask the House whether there was not something in the present law of ejectment which, however, well it might work in England, required some alteration with regard to Ireland. It was well known that there existed in Ireland a class of people which did not exist in England, he meant the middle-men. Now, a middle-man might be a very bad tenant, and might very justly be turned out of possession; but in the execution of the writ upon the judgment to turn out the middle-man, the practical effect was to eject, perhaps a hundred individuals who were the tenants of the middle-man. Now, this was a great hardship, because it might be, and no doubt in the majority of instances was, the case, that every one of these under-tenants had paid their rents and fulfilled their contracts with their own immediate landlord, the middle-man. He would submit to the House whether some mode might not be devised for getting possession of the land from the middle-man without making it necessary to turn out these under-tenants.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought that this must be admitted to be a most remarkable debate—remarkable, if for nothing else, for the total inapplicability of the speeches to the motion proposed. Any man who had not heard the motion read would never have conjectured, from any thing that had been said, what the matter was to which the motion referred. There was another feature in the debate which ought to be remembered, though he doubted whether it would. Speeches had been made by four Gentlemen, natives of Ireland, who, it would appear, came there for the sole purpose of vilifying their native land—["Oh, oh!"]—yes, of vilifying their native land, and endeavouring to prove that it was the worst and most criminal country on the face of the earth. ["Oh, oh!"]. "Yes, exclaimed the hon. and learned Member, "you came here to calumniate the country that gave you birth. It is said, that there are some
 111 cheers 112 E. Tennent "The tenth inheritor of a foolish face" 113 Jackson: 114 115 Cheers. 116 Evening Mail, Freeman's Journal, 117 Hear! hear!
 Colonel Conolly  was disposed to attribute the unsettled stale of Ireland in a great degree to the Riband conspiracy,
 105 Laughter. 106
 Mr. Litton  hoped the House would favour him with their attention while he addressed a few observations to them, and he pledged himself they should neither be loud nor long. The charge against the Government was, that they encouraged agitation, and that charge had been, in his opinion, fully substantiated that night. The truth was, that the well-disposed, loyal, and peaceable inhabitants of Ireland considered the present Government inimical to them, while the agitators looked upon it as their friend and supporter. It was not necessary to impute motives to any Gentleman, nor was it his wish to do so, but the House had now admitted facts and documents before them sufficiently abundant to support the charge which he preferred against the Government. Before
 107 108 109 Freeman's Journal: Freeman, Mail. 110
 Mr. Shaw  said, he could have no objection to his motion being extended, as the hon. and learned Member for Dublin proposed.
 Mr. Shaw , pursuant to notice, rose to move for certain papers relating to the state of Ireland. The necessity of such a motion had been forced on his mind by the remarkable omission from her Majesty's speech, of any allusion to the present social and moral condition of that country. If he had not been apprehensive, that he might cast an air of ridicule upon a subject which he desired to treat with every seriousness, he would have requested the clerk at the table to read the short
 26 27 28 29 30 31 1.; 1. 32 "On the 28th of November, 1838, Patrick Wood was fired at with intent to murder him; on the 5th of December, 1838, Robert Brabazon was murdered; on the 24th of December John Boland, the bailiff of Mr. Ennis, was shot dead at his own door; on the 20th of December Patrick Ruby was murdered near Ballynalch, and thrown into a ditch; on the 2nd of February, John Alexander was murdered near Killenan. A statement is before me of the names of certain men who met to arrange the murder of—in the event of his ejecting some tenants from his lands. About three weeks since a threatening notice was addressed to Mr. Robinson, and another to Sir F. Hopkins. Copy—'Sir Francis Hopkins, there did a man come to look for you with a brace of pistols to shoot you, and if you do not be lighter on your tenants than what you are, you shall be surely shot, so now we give you timely notice, and if you don't abide by this, mark the consequence.' The following threatening notice was addressed to Mr. Thomas Gibson—'Sir, we take this opportunity of writing to you, as it is our wish to live friends with you, as we have done heretofore, unless you act contrary to our request, which is as follows—we request you'll put away Patrick Doyle and give him no further employment, as the people in giniril does not approve of him. Therefore we request you draw off your stock till you find a person of good character and agreeable to the neighbours, and was it not for your giniril character, we would not trouble ourselves wilting to you till we'd cause you to sustain a considerable loss. We hope you'll not put us to the trouble of writing again, or in a word proceed to any severity, which will be the result unless you comply. Choose for yourself, to have us your steady friends or inviterate foes.' Mr. Garratt Hope,—Take notice, that if you take in possession John Dowling or Tim Cassidy Land you will meet with a sudden death.' February 11.—I am sorry to inform you that the Riband system has commenced its operations in this neighbourhood. A tenant of mine had his arms taken on Saturday evening. Four men armed entered his house about 7 o'clock. Two of them presented their guns at his breast, while the others possessed themselves of his yeomanry gun and bayonet. Eight of the party remained without, and fired several shots on leaving the place. 'To Mr. Thomas Gibson, Sir,—We wrote to you al-
 33 34 35 36 37 "Eliza Moorehead was then called up. She was a young and rather interesting looking woman, decently dressed. On being sworn, she said—I am the widow of the late Hugh Moorehead; we lived in Derrygee, near Ballinamuck, in March, 1338; on the 14th of that month, about 8 o'clock in the evening, I was not the was at home with my husband and family, which consisted of two servant men, two girls, and my child, about five weeks old; at the hour I mentioned we were at our supper, when the latch was raised, and five or six men walked in; the first thing they did was to run up and strike my husband with a but-end of a gun; there was not one word said till he was struck and knocked down; there was a candle lighting in a long candlestick on the floor at the time they came in; when they knocked my husband down they asked for his arms; I said he had none in the house, that his gun
 38 "When fiord Norbury's body had been laid
 39 40 "Sir,—You are unknown to me unless by your character, but the duty I owe to my
 41 "It is more than probable, that it saved my life, for having occasion to go to Nenagh two days after receiving it, being detained till late, I thought, recollecting it, that it might be more prudent to sleep there. I have every reason to believe, that that night a gang of seven ruffians waited for some hours on the road by which I was likely to return home, for the purpose of murdering me, and two of them were actually taken up by the police patrol on their return home that night." "Clonmel, 18th of January, 1839. "I have only time to say I have received private information which, without going into particulars, makes it necessary for me to I inform you of a conspiracy to assassinate you." "I hasten to apprise you, that a person came some distance to inform me that he had heard two men conspiring to take away your life. I need hardly warn you to be careful of yourself." 42 43 "They have sent a large sum of money to the Precursors; yes, the brave, the patriotic, the manly, and the spirited people of Tipperary, have nobly done their duty to the country." "I regret to say, that there has been a crime committed which makes the blood chill in one's veins to think of; but let it be remembered, that the murderers of Cooper and Weyland had been deprived of their land by the landlord." "Ah, Sir, Lord Oxmantown ought to be cautious on such a subject, for the people know how he has an estate. The method was the extermination of the people, the clearing of parishes, the rooting out the inhabitants, both males and females, until all were annihi-
 44 45 "The deponent states, that he is a member of the Riband Society; that it consists of county delegates, parish delegates, treasurer, body-master, committee men, and common members. He states how they are chosen; that the country delegates meet quarterly in large towns for the purpose of giving renewals of passwords, signs, &c. At the parish meetings members are admitted and sworn. The oath, amongst other things, binds the member to keep secret whatever he may see or hear, to be loyal and true to each brother, to fight for each other to death, especially against Protestants or heretics, or any man who may oppose his religion. He is not to discover or give any information against a brother; he is to hold himself ready to rise in defence of his religion when called upon. It appears, also, that, at their meetings, orders are issued by the committee for the beating, carding, or other punishment of any person who may have rendered himself obnoxious in any way; such as by taking land from which any member has been ejected; voting at an election against the candidate the society favours, giving evidence, &c.; and, for the purpose of punishment, people from a different neighbourhood are appointed, in order that they may not be known, and a person of the neighbourhood to point out their victim. The pass-warrant is written with contractions, so that none but the initiated can read it, and the pass-words are changed quarterly. The deponent states the names and addresses of various persons well known." 46 47 48
 Mr. E. Tennent , after the speech of the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, could not avoid offering a few remarks to the House. Whatever difference of sentiment there might exist in the minds of different parties, either in the House or in the country, as to individual details of the policy of the Irish Government for the last three or four years, there could be no second opinion as to one universal and manifest result which had flowed from it, namely, the widening of the breach, and the aggravation of those feelings which had so long prevailed, and by amalgamation and social incorporation of the two parties in that country. For the last fifty years every legislative project which had been conceived or brought forward for the benefit of Ireland had been introduced with this recommendation—that by smoothing political asperities, and softening down religious prejudices, it would tend to unite the Irish people in one social compact as the coequal subjects of one and the same kingdom. It was this consideration that had led to the original relaxation of the penal
 99 100 101 102 ad infinitum. ex parte 103 104
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  requested the indulgence of the House only for a short time, whilst he made a few observations in answer to the attack which had been made upon him by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. That hon. and learned Member had asked him whether he had not attended a meeting held in the county of Cork in the year 1828, and there made a speech against Catholic emancipation; and he would answer him, that never, in the county of Cork or elsewhere, at a Brunswick or any other meeting, had he made any speech against Catholic emancipation. Had the hon. Gentleman known him, he would have known, as his (Mr. Sergeant Jackson's) friends well knew, that his opinions were favourable to Catholic emancipation in 1828; but with the experience he had had of late years, and a knowledge of the lamentable events which had occurred in certain quarters, were the question now before the Legislature, he should ponder well ere he gave his vote for that measure. But the hon. and learned Member was not very cautious in his allegations as to points of fact, and he would get over this mistake in some way or other, by saying, then
 118 119 120 Sheil, in extenso, 121 122 123 124 125 126 Dublin Register: 127 1. s. l. 128 l. 1. An hon. Member 129 Laughter. 130
 Mr. Fitzsimon  observed, that if the hon. and learned Member for Kilmarnock had read the address which had been presented to Lord Normanby by the inhabitants of Durrow, he would not have made the charge against him, which he had, of want of sympathy with the suffering people of Ireland.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, it certainly was matter of some satisfaction to him, upon whom unavoidably so large a share of responsibility connected with the subjects treated of in the motion and speech of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Dublin University, devolved; and he conceived, also, that it must be something of relief to the excited apprehensions of the country, to find, that the long and repeatedly threatened explosion which was to overwhelm the Irish Government with shame, confusion, and ruin—
 49 50 51 52 53 * "In a county which was for the most part destitute of manufactures, the population were almost entirely employed in the cultivation of the soil, and much of the existing distress had arisen from the large sums offered to landowners by tenants, by which the proprietors had unfortunately suffered themselves to be tempted, but which it was wholly beyond the means of the tenant to pay. The disturbances to which he had alluded commenced about the middle of November; renewed disturbances took place, in which some lives were lost, and a gentleman of respectability was shot by the road side in a public highway. The meeting of the magistrates was adjourned for a fortnight, and in that short interval, such was the increased audacity of the rebels, for he could designate them in no other manner, that up-
 * 54 * "Let us cast "said the hon. Baronet" a rapid glance over the recent history of Ireland, trace it from the Union, the period when the retirement of Mr. Pitt from the King's Councils brought more prominently forward the differences of public men in regard to the Catholic question. What is the melancholy fact? That for scarcely one year during the period that has elapsed since the Union, has Ireland been governed
 * 55 * "The house of a man named McGowan, in Carrigallon (county of Leitrim), was attacked in the middle of the day by a daring mob, who beat him in a violent manner, broke his win-
 * 56 "The following resolutions were unanimously adopted at a most numerous and respectable meeting of the magistrates of the county of Fermanagh, convened under the presidency of the Earl of Enniskillen, on the 30th July, 1829:—'The magistrates of the county of Fermanagh, assembled to take into consideration the state of their county, deeply lament the melancholy occurrences which have recently taken place in a part of it. Much misrepresentation has, no doubt, existed on the origin of these transactions; but, from the fullest inquiry which they have been enabled to make, it is the deliberate conviction of their minds, that a premeditated attack was made on the peaceable and unoffending Protestants, by well-organised, numerous and tumultuous assemblages from distant parts, well armed, and acting under regular control, and which appears to have been part of a system co-existing in different parts of this county and elsewhere, plotted by factious incendiaries." "In Queen's County, at the summer assizes of 1829 (July 31), Chief Justice Bushe addressed the Grand Jury at some length on the disturbed state of the county and weight of the calendar. He expressed much regret that its appearance proved the existence of a spirit of insubordination and insurrection greatly at variance with the state of a county which had been hitherto proverbial for the absence of
 57 Evening Mail, "You can form no conception of the state in which this hitherto peaceable barony now is; all our lower windows built up, obliged to live in the upper rooms, and in momentary expectation of an attack. You are, doubtless, aware that Mr. Tydd Abbott's and Daniel Falkener's houses were robbed of their arms ten or twelve days since." "Resolved, That in consequence of the disturbances which have prevailed in this county tor the last three years, several meetings of the magistrates have been held within that period for the purpose of considering the means best calculated to arrest their progress. That at these meetings it was resolved unanimously, that the means and powers afforded by the existing laws were insufficient, and that the state of the country was such as to call for the renewal and application of the Insurrection Act. That since the transmission of our last memorial, dated 20th October, 1827, on this subject, to the Lord-lieutenant, notwithstanding the rewards offered by his Excellency for the discovery and apprehension of offenders, and the united efforts of the magistrates and local authorities to restore tranquillity, the system of outrage and daring opposition to the laws has increased, and continues to increase, to an alarming extent. That a great portion of the commonalty are in possession of unlicensed arms, and that bodies of armed men have appeared lately on several occasions at noonday, for the purpose of obstructing the execution of the laws, and threatening the lives and properties of all who are opposed to their unlawful proceedings. That such is the demoralization of the lower classes, such their confederacy, and such the prevailing system of terror, that all endeavours to procure information, to convict and bring offenders to justice, are vain and futile. That it is our firm persuasion that the existing evils call for the application of strong and vigorous measures, and that the Insurrection Act, or some such measure, is best calculated to restore order and tranquillity. That in consequence of the quantity of hidden arms in this county, and
 58 "His Grace, the Lord-lieutenant will direct his immediate attention to such of the measures recommended by the magistrates, that he will meet their wishes for the augmentation of the police stations to such extent as may be found expedient, that he will consider and communicate the result of his deliberations upon the specific recommendations of the magistracy with regard to the disposition of the military. With respect to the Insurrection Act, his Grace feels, that nothing but the increase and extension of the existing evil, and the proved failure of the conjoint exertions of the civil and military authorities under the existing law, could justify him in recommending it. That his Grace hopes, that the efforts of the magistracy, aided by those of Government, will shortly diminish the extent of the disturbances, and, that the suggestions of the magistrates respecting the Arms Act will engage his Grace's best attention." 59 "The present apathy and indifference of the civil authorities, resident in our immediate neighbourhood, to our danger, compel us to lay this representation of our defenceless situation before your Excellency." Evening Mail "In consequence of the numerous outrages which have disgraced the neighbourhood of Kells, in this county (Meath), a meeting of noblemen, gentlemen, and landholders of said county was held on the 19th day of September at the Sessions house, in Kells, when the following resolutions were entered into:—'It was unanimously resolved, that a committee, consisting of the following noblemen and gentlemen, namely, Lord Bective, J. W. L. Naper, C. A. Nicholson, A. H. C. Pollock, and John Farrell, Esquires, be appointed to draw up resolutions for the purpose of offering rewards for bringing to justice the persons concerned in any outrage in this neighbourhood. That the disturbed parts of said county be divided into districts, and that the resident gentlemen and landholders in each district be earnestly requested to come forward and assist, as far as they can, the magistrates and the police in restoring the public peace.'" "At a meeting of magistrates at Elphin, county of Roscommon, present, Lord Lorton, the Bishop of Elphin, Honourable R. King, Colonel Tennison, Dean French, &c., &c., 'it was resolved, that it is the opinion of this meeting, that the country is in an alarming state of insubordination to the laws, and that notwithstanding the active exertions of the magistrates dreadful outrages still continue to be perpetrated, in consequence of the spirit of intimidation which prevails, and which renders detection almost impossible. That we are determined to persevere in our exertions to put down this spirit, yet, from the limited power vested in us, we are compelled to call upon the Government to take the state of the country into its serious consideration, and to adopt such measures as it may in its wisdom consider necessary, to enforce the due administration of the laws, and the safety and protection of the peaceable inhabitants of the county. At the same time, we are of opinion, that nothing short of the re-enactment of the Insurrection Act will prove sufficient effectually to suppress the spirit of disaffection and intimidation which, it is to be lamented, so very generally exists.' The above resolutions were proposed by Lord Lorton, who stated, that he had called the meeting at Elphin on account of its central situation, in order to enable the gentlemen to return to their homes in safety; and that he put forth these resolutions with a view to check the evil which exists in our unfortunate, wretched, and barbarous country." 60 "May 31st. An encounter took place at Dysart (Queen's county), between the Black-feet and Whitefeet, in which four or five had their skulls fractured. The principal leader of the Whitefeet was Matthew Whelan, who has not been more than four or five days out of gaol, from which he was liberated before the expiration of his sentence of three months imprisonment for a riot." "I am sorry to add, that some of the leading members in this coalition (to oust him from the representation), alike forgetful of the conduct of their family in Parliament, and of the peace of the country, have endeavoured with too much success to revive the no-popery cry. It is a mockery upon common sense to hear the Beresfords, who reluctantly came in at the twelfth hour to give their support to the Catholic Relief Bill, because their interests forced them to concede, now oppose my claims to the renewal of your suffrages; yet such is the conduct of this family. On every side I hear their clamours against me; but I leave the public to judge of the consistency of such men who wish to be Protestants in the North, and Catholics in the South. It was a very painful duty to witness the effects of the excited feelings of the country on the 12th of July, when armed bodies of men appeared in regular parade, and when excesses of the most frightful kind were committed—houses burned—men, women, and children driven from their homes, and forced to seek for protection in the bogs and woods. It is my firm opinion, that if as much pains had been taken to tranquillize, as have been employed to excite, the public feeling on that great question, the whole country would have been disposed to acquiesce in the decision of the Legislature. But as I cannot disguise from myself that the efforts to keep alive these feuds have been successful; and as I find, that my opinions are directly at variance with such principles, and that I could not represent with comfort to myself, or satisfaction to the constituent body, a county containing a very large proportion of men whose prejudices seem to increase, rather than diminish, notwithstanding the disappointment of all their predictions of evil, I have determined not to expose the county to the mischiefs of a contested election, in which these bad passions would be brought into fearful activity; and I shall, therefore, decline the honour of coming forward as a candidate on the present occasion." 61
 Mr. Edward Ellice,  jun., assured the House, that on this subject of great importance, which his hon. Friend, the Member for Aberdeen had brought under the notice of the House, he was extremely happy to find, that a Member of more experience and of greater weight in the House, had relieved him (Mr. Ellice) from a duty which he would not have shrunk from in regard to the privileges or in vindication of his own character. His hon. Friend had fully stated hia case: but the report, which had been referred to, alluded indirectly to him for what he had stated in that House, impugning the Scotch bench. Those hon. Members who were present when the Lord Advocate introduced his bill to raise the salaries of the Scotch judges, would remember, that he took occasion to say, that considering the notorious physical infirmities of some of the learned judges, and the dissatisfaction which existed at the manner of proceeding in the Court of Session, and that the illness of others led to the belief that by a sudden accident the whole course of justice would be stopped, from the impossibility of procuring a quorum of judges, he thought it his duty, seeing also, that it was the subject of general consideration and comment on the part of the public press, to bring it under the attention of the House, and of her Majesty's Ministers. Certainly he had let fall, in the hurry of debate, an expression which was not warranted by circumstances; and he had taken the earliest opportunity of retracting the expression, which he regretted to have used; but if he had used the words "physical infirmity" instead of "mental imbecility," he would have had nothing to regret further than the regret which he always felt at being forced to use such an expression in the discharge of his public duty against judges so uniformly esteemed and respected. Except that expression, however, he did not lament the part he had taken in that discussion, and he was ready to sustain the view he then took, and he would do so when the subject was again under discussion. He assured the House, that it gave him great pain to allude to a subject of public notoriety. The facts, however, had not only been stated by himself, but in the most public way, in the newspapers, which, if they were false, might be proceeded against as libels.
 152
 Dr. Lushington  must enter his most decided protest against the principle of commenting in one House upon the speeches made in another, which he thought was likely to be attended with the most mischievous consequences. With regard to this particular case, the noble and learned Lord might have commented upon the judgment immediately under consideration, without at all referring to the observations made by the hon. Member for Aberdeen, because he could well have said, that the appeal was one in which
 166 167
 Lord Stanley,  in rising to address the House on the question that this Bill be read a second time, expressed his regret, that not having anticipated during this Session any more opposition to the second reading of this measure than was offered last Session in the same stage, he was not present on a former occasion when some debate arose on the question of the second reading. The opposition then offered to the second reading was, he believed, mainly founded on the lateness of the hour at which it was brought forward; but, on the present occasion, he apprehended there was reason to fear, from the intimation conveyed by his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, that an opposition would be offered to the second reading. He could readily conceive that the friends of the Protestant Establishment of that country, might look with considerable suspicion on this Bill,
 170 bonâ fide 171 172 l. 173 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. D'Israeli  said, that he would trespass on the attention of the House for only a very short time. In the outset of his remarks, he begged to disclaim those feelings of religious bigotry and factious spirit which had been imputed to hon. Members at his side of the House for the part they had taken on this subject on a former evening. He was not influenced by any such feeling. Whether the people of Ireland were idolaters or iconoclasts, were circumstances on which he should not dwell in considering any measure relating to the welfare of that country. He had always thought that the question with respect to Ireland was, what was the character of its Government, whether it should be local or central. In England, where society was strong, they tolerated a weak Government; but in Ireland, where society was weak, the policy should be to have the Government strong. Had that policy been acted upon? It was a much-mooted dogma of the present day—for which he believed they had to thank the hon. and learned Member for Dublin—that the people of the two countries should have equal rights. The object which that hon. and learned Gentleman sought was, that the people of Ireland should enjoy the fullest share of civil and religious rights and privileges. [ "Hear, hear, 182
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  would detain the House for a very short time. An hon. Friend near him had expressed a hope, that the hon. Baronet opposite would not press his motion. Now, he confessed, he should rather be glad if the motion were pressed to a division; for the result would show, the correctness of the statements in which the organs of the party opposite indulged, and the admirable union and harmony which prevailed in their ranks. He should like them to show not only how well they agreed among themselves, but, to use an Irish expression, how well they agreed with themselves. The hon. Member for Maid stone had favoured them with a disquisition on centralized government, which he thought the great remedy for the evils of Ireland. Now it was somewhat strange, that one of the measures, which was peculiarly honoured with the approbation of the hon. Gentleman opposite, was one formed on the very opposite principle to that of centralisation—he meant the Irish Poor Law Bill. Instead of abolishing corporations upon the hon. Member's system, they ought in consistency to apply the principle of local management adopted in the poor-law to the municipal government of the cities and towns. He might remark, that amongst the hon. Gentlemen who were opposite there could not be found one, whatever might be his opinions, or however strong the feelings he entertained, who could declare his disposition to speak in terms of praise of the existing corporations. Sentence had been passed upon them by the right hon. and learned Recorder of Dublin, and no one pleaded for a mitigation of punishment. All appeared to have abandoned them, and not one, save the hon. and learned Member for Coleraine, could put in a plea in justification of them. How, then, he
 194 195
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested to the hon. and gallant Gentleman the propriety of withdrawing his motion. It rested as matter of fact, in the instance of Lord Duncannon, upon what had never happened. The wording of the motion was very objectionable, inasmuch as it referred to expressions which had been used by hon. Members of that House during former debates, which was contrary to the rules of the House.
 Lord Stanley  wished to know what the nature of the fund was which the right
 205
 Lord Stanley  observed, that the objection of the hon. Member for Kilkenny was not the only one which could be acted on.
 206
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that Bethlehem Hospital had no vested right in the fund, a surplus having never yet arisen.
 Colonel Davies  rose to order. He apprehended the question before the House was not Lord Glenlee's state of health, with respect to which the hon. Baronet would have other opportunities of speaking. The question related to the freedom of debate. It was this—whether the observations reported to have been made in another place, were not a breach of the privileges of that House.
 Mr. W. Duncombe  thought, that if the course proposed by the hon. Member were adopted it would be both objectionable and inconvenient, and more especially as the hon. Member had not informed the House how he would follow up the motion in the event of its being affirmed. Every thing he had heard in the debate had confirmed his opinion, but one expression which had been used would convey to the House an idea, that Lord Brougham was ready, and had taken opportunities of expressing his animosity in reference to the late Earl of Eldon. Political animosity might have existed between the noble and learned Lords, but he felt it to be due to Lord Brougham to say, that both in the House of Commons and in the House of Lords, and also on the judicial bench, he had taken opportunities over and over again of bearing his testimony to and of passing his high encomiums upon the judicial talents, unsullied integrity, and spotless character of the noble Earl. He repeated his regret, that the hon. Gentleman
 164
 Lord J. Russell : I am glad to see that the time has come when the right hon. Gentleman speaks against privilege.
 Lord J. Russell.  The hon. Baronet who has just sat down has not, indeed, addressed himself to the question before the House, and, which was introduced by my hon. Friend, the Member for Aberdeen. The first question is whether it is proper that a charge should be made against any Members of this House for doing their duty in this House? and the second question is, whether we ought to proceed upon this charge as a breach of the privileges of this House? Now, with regard to the first question, which the hon. Gentleman only touched upon incidentally, I must say, that in doing so he only confirmed my previous opinion, that with regard to the conduct of the person who is represented as having given the opinion complained of, he is without any, justification whatsoever. It appears that the hon. Member for Aberdeen, on a motion before the House, was quite competent to give, and he had a right to give his opinion. Any Member has a right to state what he thinks may assist this House in forming an opinion either upon the matter before it or that might afterwards arise out of it. The hon. Member stated, that one of the judges was afflicted with the infirmity of deafness; and what has the hon. Baronet said in answer to this? Why he has read a letter from a learned Gentleman who sits in the same court, and who says that certainly the Judge is deaf. Therefore, with respect to the hon. Member for Aberdeen, there is no blame; he believed the case which had come under his own observation, and he was justified in speaking of the learned Lord's deafness. That the learned Judge is a man of great learning, of great merit, that through a long course of years he has been an able judge, and that he is distinguished in literature, and of great classical acquirements, is what the hon. Member for Aberdeen has not denied, and what no one has thought of denying; but it was said, that the course of justice may be impeded by the natural infirmity of a judge who has passed the age of eighty. If the hon. Member for Aberdeen be wrong in entertaining this feeling, I must be also blameable; for having heard reports of the infirmities of some of the judges, I wrote to the Lord Justice Clerk, who happened to be in town, and asked whether the bench in the court was completely filled, and especially respecting Lord Glenlee. I received an answer and a very satisfactory answer it was. I was assured that the business of
 159 160
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that the course proposed by the hon. Member for Norfolk, seemed an exaggeration of the hon. Member for Salford: he hoped, at this hour (a quarter past 11 o'clock) the hon. Member would not press his amendment.
 Lord J. Russell  moved the Order of the Day for a Committee of Supply.
 Mr. Bannerman  expressed his regret that one moment of the time of the House should be occupied with anything in which he was personally concerned; but he trusted the House would feel that he was justified in the statement which he was about to make. On a late occasion a discussion arose in that House on a motion brought forward by the hon. Member for Greenock, relative to the administration of justice in Scotland. Some remarks which then fell from the hon. Member for St. Andrew's (Mr. E. Ellice, jun.) were animadverted upon, and knowing as he did that there was no individual in the House who would less willingly say anything that could be painful to the feelings of another than his hon. Friend, he rose and said so, and expressed his regret that his hon. Friend should have made use of any expression relative to a Scotch judge which could be considered objectionable. In doing so he himself alluded to the physical infirmity of one of the judges, though not the same judge as his hon. Friend referred to. He stated that about ten days before he left Edinburgh he had been in the Court of Session, and had seen with regret a venerable judge of high character and of most upright mind, but very advanced in age, sitting on the bench. He mentioned the name of Lord Glenlee, and said that he was completely deaf, so much so that a brother judge was prompting him on the right, and another on the left, while a person was supporting him at his back; and he then stated that he was of opinion, judges at the time of life of Lord Glenlee ought to retire on full salaries, and he added that if no one else did so, he should take up the subject. The House had since passed an unanimous resolution stating it as their opinion that judges at a certain time of life ought to retire on a full salary, in consequence of which a Bill had been brought in by his learned Friend
 147 Times "5th March, 1839. "Dear Lord Brougham—Some weeks ago having stated in the House of Commons, that I had seen with regret— "'Lord Glenlee, a judge very far advanced in years, than whom there was not a better man or more upright judge presiding in one of the divisions in the Court of Session, totally deaf, so much so, that he was prompted by a judge on his, right anti lefts, and a person standing behind him, and that I thought judges at such an advanced age should be allowed to retire on full salaries, to which I should call the attention of the House, if no other Member did.' 148 "My attention was called to the morning papers of to-day, in which there is the report of a Scotch appeal case decided in the House of Lords yesterday, where your Lordship is reported to have said, in alluding to observations which had been made in another place, regarding Lord Glenlee, 'it is the special and precious privilege of your Lordships to advocate, to sustain, and to protect the learned judges when they are foully, falsely, and unjustifiably assailed'—if these expressions be correctly reported, will your Lordship be so good as inform me whether you meant to apply the terms foul, false, and unjustifiable, to any observations which fell from me in the House of Commons, and I remain, faithfully, &c. "A. BANNERMAN. "Lord Brougham, &c." "Grafton-street, March 6, 1839. "Dear Mr. B—I beg leave to assure you, without any kind of personal disrespect, that neither you nor any man living shall ever be suffered to question me upon anything which I may have said, or been represented to say, in the discharge of my duty as a judge of the highest court of appeal in this country; and I am sure that a little reflection must convince you that I am now giving the only answer which it is possible for me to give to the letter you have without due consideration thought proper to write.—I am, dear Mr. B., yours, faithfully, "H. BROUGHAM." "House of Commons, "Wednesday Afternoon, "Dear Lord Brougham.—Your note of this date was sent to me here. You will not I see suffer me, or any man living, to question you upon anything which you may say, or be represented to say, in the discharge of your duty as a judge. Will you, therefore, suffer me to question you as a gentleman, and to ask, whether you believe that a certain noble and learned Lord meant to apply the terms, foul, false, and unjustifiable, to any observations which fell from me in the House of Commons regarding Lord Glenlee. It is my intention to repeat those observations on Friday evening, and I was most anxious to confine my remarks to the venerable judge. If I do not hear from your Lordship before Friday, I will do, what I am sure you would do under similar circumstances, allude to the speech said to have been spoken the other day in the highest Court of Appeal in this country. Faithfully yours, &c. "A. BANNERMAN." "Grafton-street, Thursday. "Dear Mr. B.—Your second letter is, as
 149 "Whatever you may do, in the way you mention, is for your own consideration; and I hope you will reckon it no disrespect or unkindness towards you if I say, that any reflections on my judicial conduct, by whomsoever made, or in whatsoever place, are to me a matter of perfect indifference. Nay, I had far rather any attacks were made on myself, who am able to defend myself, than on those who are necessarily without the means of defence. I am, however, far from suspecting you of any such thing. Believe me, dear Mr. B., faithfully yours, "H. BROUGHAM." Times, Morning Herald, Morning Advertiser 150 "The only defence that has been set up is, that there was something in the proceeding on his part as hasty in itself, as it was extraordinary on the part of that learned judge, that his conduct besides being indecorous to the House, showed rashness and impatience, very unsuitable to the judgment seat, and that, therefore, it is to be excused. I greatly fear, that no one out of this House will see the strength of this plea, and that if we refuse to deal with this offence, and reserve our privileges to crush those humbler individuals from whose attacks we have no danger to apprehend, even for this ignoble purpose they will be found ineffectual. If persons connected with the press or any person in inferior station to Lord" Brougham, "should feel any right to hold us up to public scorn, or to point to our proceedings in characters however false (for it is admitted that the representation this night in question is altogether false), I cannot conceive why he should allow such a wish to remain to the uttermost degree ungratified. But if that wish should be indulged in, it will be ridiculous, or worse than ridiculous, to arm ourselves with the terrors of privilege, to guard against ridicule or invective, while we take no means to secure ourselves against a repetition of this gross and dangerous attack on the freedom of our debates, and the independence of so many of our Members." Times 151
 Mr. Bannerman  in reply, said, he did not think he had been very fairly dealt with in the course which the debate had taken, and he begged now to repeat what he had before said, that the learned Lord to whom he had referred was prompted on the bench, for he had witnessed the circumstance himself, and therefore knew it of his own knowledge. He had never intended to say anything in reference to the learned Lord otherwise than speaking of him in the highest terms so far as his personal character went, but his observations had been directed to his physical infirmities. The right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) would recollect, that in 1826
 168
 Mr. Bannerman  would meet the hon. Baronet by asking one question of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Stamford. Did the hon. Baronet ever hear of one of these Scotch judges having, when about to deliver a judgment, folding his hands after the manner of one about to say grace at a dinner, and uttered aloud the words, "For what we are about to receive, may the Lord make us truly thankful?"
 Colonel Sibthorp  could not but express his disappointment, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had not now brought forward the motion, with a view to dispense with the office of Viceroy of Ireland, of which the hon. Member had given notice, and upon which he (Colonel Sibthorp) had an important amendment, for the reduction of the salary of the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, to propose. It was with great pain, that he had felt himself called upon to vote in the division which had just taken place against the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, of whose honour such was his belief, that he would willingly commit to him the whole superintendence of the whole of the affairs of the country. Thinking, that there was some political manœuvre, or that there had been some misunderstanding on that head, he cordially seconded the motion for the adjournment of the House.
 Colonel Sibthorp : Then it is a hoax.
 Mr. Litton  said, that on the night alluded to by the hon. Member for Meath, (Mr. Grattan), that hon. Member had made a statement highly injurious to the Corporation of Dublin. It was to the effect that while they were indebted upwards of 70,000 l. 183 l., l. l. 184
 Mr. Shaw  hoped the House would allow him to state, in a few words, his feelings with regard to the measure then before them, and the course which he meant to take respecting it. His individual opinion on the general question of Irish corporations had been from the first, and remained unaltered, that it would be, under the existing circumstances of Ireland, more conducive to the general advantage of the community, and the good management of the cities and towns in that country, that the existing corporations should be simply abolished. With respect to the present bill, he had many objections to its details; he would, in Committee, endeavour to amend it—and if it appeared in its present form, or not very materially altered on the third reading, he should vote against it. But he felt bound, by personal honour and good faith, to give an opportunity to the Government of submitting a bill based on the principle of popular election, for the consideration and amendment of a committee. For two years he and the party with whom he had the honour to act had used their utmost efforts to carry a measure for the abolition of corporations; but from the construction of the great political parties into which the House was divided, and the dissent of many of their own party from that proposition, it became impossible to maintain it. In the end, then, of the Session of 1837, the Duke of Wellington announced, that if the appropriation clause was abandoned, and a standard of value for the franchise provided by the Poor-law Bill—that he would consent to the passing of a corporation bill, on the principle of the present. Considering the source from whence that declaration proceeded—the known influence the illustrious Duke possessed, and the entire confidence reposed in him by the great party of which he was the head, seeing moreover that the conditions he had required had been granted, he thought, that the party were under an undoubted obligation to perform their portion of the contract. It was a subject on which he (Mr. Shaw) could not take a neutral part. He had, therefore, during the last Session been a party, a reluctant one it was true—but, nevertheless a party to the proceedings taken on that ground; and be could not with consistency or honour now recede from them. He had already incurred some odium on that account, and his vote that night would pro-
 179
 Mr. H. Grattan  rose to set himself right with respect to the bill before the House. They would allow him to observe, that this opposition was all idle on the part of the hon. Member; the question had been decided over and over again; it had been decided in that House and in another place. Now, he would suggest to the kind and ardent disposition of the hon. Baronet opposite, whether it were wise or politic to exasperate the public mind by entering on this fruitless course. The hon. Baronet considered this as a battle against the Church, and had introduced the word "Saxon." The people of Ireland had no battle against the Church, but if the Church or the Saxons battled against them, they must battle against the Saxons and the Church. [ "Hear, hear!" "terrorum et fraudis abunde est." 180 l., 181
 The Speaker  said, the case, as he understood it, stood thus. A fund was to be applied, first, for the benefit of a certain class of prisoners, and next, in case of surplus, to Bethlehem Hospital. What created the surplus now and for the first time? The failure of that class of prisoners. The question to be considered, then, was, whether, in point of fact, that failure having arisen, it was not to be considered as a new appropriation. If there were any doubts upon it, he would suggest the withdrawal of the bill until Monday, that the fact might, in the mean time, be investigated.
 Mr. Ellis  said, that as it was his intention, if a division took place, to vote for the amendment of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, he wished to claim the indulgence of the House whilst he as briefly as possible explained the grounds upon which he meant to found his vote. But he first of all desired to inform the hon. and learned Member for the city of Dublin who last addressed them from the opposite benches, that if he supposed, that because a difference of opinion existed on the Conservative side of the House, as to whether or not the second reading of the bill ought to be allowed to pass, that therefore there would hereafter be produced a variance of opinion amongst the powerful and united body of the Opposition relative to any of the essential points of Conservatism, he (Mr. M. O'Connell) would, indeed, as the learned Sergeant (Mr. Jackson) had just stated, find his disappointment to be as great and bitter as his expectation was unreasonable. He (Mr. Ellis) had not the good fortune to hear the opening portion of the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, who though he felt himself bound, from the previous declarations he had made, as a public and eminent leader, upon the subject under consideration, to sanction the second reading, would nevertheless be the first, as he felt sure, to respect the independent exercise of individual judgment upon that or any other question. The noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire, who spoke early in the debate, said, that he considered himself bound through his pledge as a man of honour and a gentleman to vote for allowing the bill to go into committee, but at the same time the noble Lord distinctly expressed his doubts that the bill, if passed into law, would tend to the peace, order, and good government of the municipal towns of Ireland. He, however, was wholly un-
 198 199
 The Lord Advocate  having been particularly alluded to, felt it his duty to say a few words upon the subject under discussion. It would be in the recollection of bun. Members, that he rose immediately after the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Greenock on a former evening, and, that he went through all the cases to which he had alluded, and he trusted, that the account which he gave was a satisfactory one. In doing so he had been compelled to advert to many of the observations made by that hon. Member, and he was able, he thought, successfully to anticipate and to obviate most of the expressions afterwards made use of by the hon. Members for Aberdeen and for St. Andrew's. He regretted exceedingly, that those observations had been made, but he could not deny, that Members of that House had a right to inquire into the manner in which justice was administered, but he agreed, that the exercise of the right was to be guarded by the strictest caution, and if a case arose, on which they might require an exposition, the party making the motion should state much less than he contended for, in order that the House might inquire into the fact. He could not help thinking, that the discussion should now terminate at once, for if words were made use of in another place, in reference to what was said in that House, such a course could only be defended on the ground of the persons who defended the person first attacked having a right to use much stronger language than was commonly employed. He thought, that the character of the judges of the land ought not to be attacked upon slight grounds, and that aged gentlemen who had long devoted their services and abilities to their country, in the performance of their duties in an impartial manner, ought to receive not merely the indulgence but the protection of Parliament.
 Mr. Hume  said, that as he had been alluded to, he begged to state, that he had not brought forward his motion on going into Committee of Supply, because he had promised several hon. Members, who had spoken to him on the subject, that he would not do so if the debate on the Irish Corporation Bill went beyond half-past ten o'clock. That hour was passed, and it would be unfair to those Gentlemen, now to press the matter forward.
 Mr. Hume  thought, they had no right to make a new application of that fund.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  thought the House would agree with him, that he was entitled to assign a reason for the vote he was about to give. He had heard the sentiments expressed by the noble Lord and the able and eloquent speech of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, and he did not hesitate to say, that his mind was in the same position as theirs. But, while he felt bound to vote for the second reading of this bill, he should feel it to be his duty to see details introduced into the bill to prevent the evil (which was probably in the mind of the facetious Member who did him the honour to laugh at him) of transferring all power from the hands of Protestants, exclusively to the hands of Catholics. The House would permit him to make one observation on a remark which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman opposite. The hon. Gentleman was mistaken if he supposed, that the course which some hon. Gentlemen felt it their duty to pursue on this question indicated anything like division in the ranks of the numerous and respectable party to which he had the honour to belong. The hon. Gentleman would find, if he indulged is such a hope, that he was utterly mistaken. In the great party to which he belonged there was no division, and it would be found, that they were united as one man in their determination to uphold the Protestant institutions of the country. On the measure before the House there might be some difference of opinion as regarded its details, but they were firmly resolved to resist every inroad upon the constitution, and to prevent the Protestants of Ireland from being oppressed by their
 197 bonâ fide l.
 Mr. Maxwell  said, considering how lately he had come into that House, nothing but a paramount sense of duty could induce him to intrude himself upon it; and he must be a much older Member, and have much more experience, before he could feel justified, under any circumstances, in trespassing at any length on the attention of hon. Members. He would not have risen on the present occasion had not the taunt of the hon. Member for Kerry made it necessary that he should offer a few remarks. It was quite true, as the hon. Member had stated, that no Irish Member on his (Mr. Maxwell's) side of the House, except his hon. Friend, the Member for Coleraine, had as yet expressed his dissent from the course which the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, intended to pursue with reference to the bill before the House. The hon. Member for Kerry had alluded to disunion in the Conservative party. In the few words he had spoken on that day week, he had placed himself before the House the free and unfettered representative of a large independent constituency, unattached to any party, unpledged to any leader. He, therefore, for one, had no party to abandon—no leader to desert. [ Cheers. 196
 Mr. Blackstone  begged to assure the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman, that the course he had pursued on that day se'nnight, in reference to this bill, introduced at a very late hour, twelve o'clock, had not been done with any factious motives. But he had never had an opportunity of giving a vote against this bill, and therefore wished that the bill should be discussed at an early stage, that he might have an opportunity of giving his vote distinctly against it. He denied that he was a party to any compromise on this question. He must confess, that if the noble Lord had introduced the bill sent down from the House of Lords last year, it might have been an object to him to have given his assent to the bill; but not only had a bill been introduced with a lower franchise, but it was stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the franchise sent down from the Lords would be an insult to the people of Ireland. He was one who looked on the measure of sending the noble Viceroy recently appointed to that country with dismay; and before he voted for this measure, he should wish to know what his intentions and motives were. He mentioned this solely with the impression that the church was exposed to considerable danger. He would not vote for a measure which he was of opinion was fraught with danger to the Protestant interests. But the noble Member for North Lancashire had stated, that he considered he was bound in honour to enter into this measure, He could assure the House, that he, for one, never entered into any such contract. He confessed, that he did not see that they had any valuable return for what had been given. What had they got for the appropriation clause? Had that clause ever passed by a majority of
 177 l.
 Sir Charles Grey,  if the hon. Baronet forced the House to a division, would oppose the motion of the hon. Member for Aberdeen; but he would do so solely on the ground taken by the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montgomeryshire—that no case of breach of the privileges of that House had been made out.
 Sir F. Trench  rose to address the House upon a subject which, he said, was not one of great dignity, but which was, nevertheless, of the utmost importance to the convenience and comfort of hon. Members. It was, moreover, a question of justice and fair play. He would ask of hon. Gentlemen who occasionally sat in the gallery, whether they were content with the present system of lighting the House?—whether the light from the lustres did not fall with inconvenient strength upon their eyes? He would ask the same question even of the Speaker himself. The hon. and gallant Gentleman concluded by moving, "That it is the opinion of this House, that the old system of lighting the House of Commons was not satisfactory to the Members who sat in the body of the House, and was 'extremely distressing' to those who sat in the galleries. That, if Gentlemen sitting in the gallery suffered inconvenience, it was fitting that that inconvenience should be immediately remedied." That a Member of this House did undertake to apply a remedy; and that, after much trouble, and many experiments, the existing plan was adopted, and appeared to give general satisfaction up to the close of the last Session. That, before the meeting of Parliament in the present Session, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Hume, and Lord Duncannon, did inspect the "Philosophical Oxygen Bude Light," with a view to its applicability to the lighting the House of Commons; that the making this experiment necessarily implies that the existing system is defective and unsatisfactory, and Members will be called upon to make a comparison between the present system and that system of philosophical light which is contemplated as its substitute. That the lustres now suspended in this House have, in this Session, been deprived of nearly one-third of their intended, light, and of all their intended softness. That with a view to justice and a fair trial upon a point so important to
 204 l. s. d. s. l  s. d. l., l.
 Sir F. Trench  said, that he would wait for a few days, when, if he should find that no arrangement had been made in this matter, he would again submit it to the House. He would put the last section of his motion on the votes for another occasion, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the House would make the experiment or not. He would, therefore, for the present withdraw the motion.
 Sir George Clerk  had heard the absurd story in question. He heard it from the hon. Member himself one day in the street, and he then told the hon. Member that he did not believe it, and that he thought it was a joke. With regard to the question of the physical infirmity of the judges in question, he was comparatively indifferent, while he had the high legal testimony of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets to their unimpaired mental energies, as exhibited in the judgments which in the course of his professional career he had been in the habit of reading and considering.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, he would leave it to
 153
 Sir G. Clerk  said, if he were considered at all out of order in the observations he was about to make, he should be perfectly ready to bow to the decision of the House; but having heard the hon. Members for Aberdeen and St. Andrew's, without interruption reiterating the same charges they had originally made as to the state of the judges of the Court of Session, he did appeal to the House, as a matter of justice, whether he should not be permitted to make a short statement—and he promised it should be very brief—by way of reply. He was proceeding to state, when he was interrupted, that he had heard, with great astonishment, the observations which had been made by the hon. Member for St.
 154 155 "I have been extremely shocked by the observations made on Lord Glenlee during the late debate on the judges of the Court of Session, and I believe there are very few persons acquainted with the character, merits, and capacity of his Lordship in this country who do not experience similar feelings. There is, I believe, no judge on the bench whose opinions obtain higher respect, not only from his colleagues, but from practitioners and litigants, than Lord Glenlee's do; indeed, it would be strange if they did not, for no one case occurs in which he does not exhibit the most perfect acquaintance with the most minute fact, however complex or involved, as
 156 157
 Sir Graham  thought it quite clear, that this was an appropriation of a tax. From the account given of it by the right hon. Gentleman, it was a tax levied upon the ratepayers, inasmuch as the treasurers of counties, from whom the fund was collected, had no command over any but the county rate. This bill, therefore, involved the appropriation of a fund levied and contributed by the treasurers of counties under a general Act of Parliament. It was clear, that it would be nothing less than a new appropriation of a tax which must he made by a resolution of a Committee of the whole House.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the Act already quoted, provided, that any surplus which might arise, should be applied to Bethlehem Hospital. Now, there never was a surplus; but a surplus would now arise in consequence of the diminution in the number of prisoners confined for debt, and the question was, how that surplus was to be appropriated. If a previous resolution of the House were considered to be necessary, he would, of course, bow to such decision.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the 53rd George 3rd required the treasurer of every county in England to pay a certain sum for the maintenance of prisoners confined for debt in the King's Bench and Marshal sea prisons. Such was the source and present application of that fund; but, as it would shortly be unappropriated, he proposed to apply a portion of it to the object of this bill.
 The Attorney-General  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the further Relief of Insolvent Debtors in England. The object of the bill was to be attained by the application of a portion of the fund created under the 53rd George 3rd for the maintenance of prisoners. He brought for ward the measure at the request of Lord Denman, who conceived it necessary in consequence of the operation of the new Insolvent Act, many persons being unable to procure their discharge from inability to pay the fees.
 Sir R. Inglis  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. It would be in the recollection of the House that last Session they had unanimously adopted an Address to her Majesty, with three different objects; the first was to obtain the concurrence of Portugal in such measures as might be necessary for the abolition of the Slave Trade. He would ask, therefore, whether the treaty with Portugal had been ratified, and if not, whether the noble Lord was prepared to act on the declaration which he had made on a former occasion in the event of its not being ratified.
 Sir R. Inglis  doubted, whether it were competent to the hon. Member thus to withdraw his motion without the consent of the House. Still less did he think it consistent with the dignity of the House to suffer the motion to be withdrawn, pending such a threat as was conveyed by the notice of motion just given by the hon. Member for Aberdeen, with respect to the physical infirmity of the judges of the Court of Session in Scotland. Unless the hon. Member gave a better reason for the withdrawal of the motion, he should oppose it.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, his noble Friend, in saying, that as a man of fairness and honour, he felt bound to support the second reading of this bill, had said what, in his
 174 175 O'Connell 176
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the prominent part, that he had taken in the preceding discussion on the question of the municipal corporations, made him very unwilling to give a silent vote upon the subject now. The question he had to decide to night was, whether by his vote he should imply, that he was ready to reconstruct the Irish municipal corporations upon the principle of popular election, or whether he should propose to depart from the course which was pursued in the last and preceding Sessions, and withhold his assent from the re-constitution of the Irish corporations on the elective principle. He would shortly refer to the history of the discussions on
 185 186 187 188 189 190 191 192 l. 193 l.
 Sir Robert Peel : I must say, that I hope the hon. Gentleman will not adopt the advice which has been offered him by the noble Lord, but that he will well consider the consequences of the exercise of the great privilege and right which, as a Member of this House, he undoubtedly possesses, before he questions the competency of those learned judges who are far distant from the place in which he brings forward his accusations. What is the case of the judge in question. The hon. Gentleman admits, that the learned judge, whose con-
 161 162 163
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that the question could not be put till the paper complained of had been read by the clerk at the Table; which having been done,
 Mr. Williams Wynn  was of opinion that there was not the shadow of a pretence for maintaining that there had been any Breach of Privilege on the present occasion. He had always contended for the real privileges of the House, and he should always continue to do so; but he considered that nothing could so effectually tend to the subversion of those privileges as an attempt to push them beyond their ancient
 165
 Mr. Williams Wynn : I have not spoken against privilege, but I have spoken against that which, if it were proved, and could be proved, to be according to the privileges of the House, would be tyranny to the country.
 Mr. Bagge  moved, that the House do adjourn.
 Viscount Palmerston  was sorry to inform the House, in reply to the question of the hon. Baronet, that the negotiations in which this country had been engaged with Portugal, for nearly four years, for the sake of obtaining a treaty on the subject of the Slave Trade, had not been satisfactory; and that within the last week he had received a dispatch from the British Minister at Lisbon, stating that there was no chance of obtaining the consent of the Portuguese Government to that treaty. It was his intention, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, to lay before the House
 146
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. Baronet took up the time of the House by endeavouring to show that the subject was one which ought not to occupy its attention. For his own part, however, he thought that the time of the House was never thrown away when it was employed in redressing the grievances of any individual. With regard to the question of the observance of Lent, he thought that a mistake had been made, because, instead of its being contended that the people should fast, the object was to make the doors of the theatre fast. When the sub-
 242
 Mr. Plumtre  rose amidst loud cries of question and divide. He said that he saw with pain that the noble Lord had given way to the hon. Member for Finsbury; for, he thought, that great violence would be done by the adoption of the noble Lord's proposition to the feelings of a great portion of the inhabitants of this country.
 Captain Pechel,  after what he had heard, could not believe that in some of the statements put forth by hon. members on the opposite side, they had been actuated so much by considerations for the honour of our great national bulwark, the navy, as by party feelings. Those who had heard the debate, and who were aware of what had been said and written out of doors on the subject, must be convinced that this great national question had been brought forward for party purposes. Had it not been so the Committee would never have heard of such preposterous objections as had been made—objections which had been demolished at one fell swoop by his hon. Friend, the Member for Halifax. But of all the humbugs which had been created in the
 274 armé en flute, 275 276
 Captain Gordon  was not going to speak of the accusations against either Whig or Tory Governments, of which the House had already heard so much; but still he must say, that in all former votes for the navy to preceding Governments they had been compelled, by the opposition side of the House, to reduce their estimates to the
 277 278 279 280 "No." 281 282
 Mr. Elliott  observed, that when these debates commenced, an attack had been made from Members on the opposite side of the House, upon the side at which he sat. It was stated, that the navy had been reduced by the present Ministry. But now it was said, that this was no party question. He had heard with pleasure a speech from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Pembroke, a speech which was totally devoid of party feeling: he was happy to hear it, for he found by it, that "a change had come over the spirit" of the right hon. Baronet. When listening to that speech, however, he could not help remembering a speech which had been delivered by the right hon. Baronet at Glasgow, and which, if truly reported, was diametrically the opposite of that which had been delivered in this House. Comparing the one with the other, they had occasioned him a great deal of surprise, whatever might be their effect upon those who were more experienced in politics than himself. He should take the liberty of reading the speech to the House. He should read a very small portion of it.
 283 "You have been pleased to refer to my official services. It was my good fortune to be enabled largely to reduce the civil expenditure of the navy; but it was my constant, paramount, and anxious endeavour to increase its warlike efficiency—it is in vain that we negociate commercial treaties—it is in vain that we stipulate for the free navigation of the Danube—that on paper we re-open the Black Sea to British commerce—it is in vain that we remonstrate against French blockades in South America, or seek to overawe Russia by military demonstrations in the East, if the British navy be not ready at all times, and in all places, to sustain our greatness, to assert our rights, and to vindicate our maritime supremacy, then, indeed, our glory is departed—our foremost place among the nations of the earth is surrendered without a struggle. I never hesitated to apply to Parliament for large grants for the increase of warlike stores; I added to the vote of seamen and marines; I took effectual measures for the increase of our maritime population by enforcing the law of apprenticeship on board our merchant ships; I asked for money for the preparation of steamers of war; at a large expense I established an uniform system of naval gunnery; and in justice to the House of Commons, I must observe, that I never knew a grant for the naval service refused, which a respectable Minister declared to be necessary. If the fear of an increase of the naval estimates, or of the necessity of imposing new taxes, has misled the Administration into a niggardly supply of the real wants of the navy, they are, indeed, inexcusable, and they have grossly miscalculated the interests and the wishes of this maritime community. Mr. Hume is the great bugbear on those occasions. He himself once reminded us the Roman Capitol was saved by the cackling of a goose: what a melancholy reflection it would be, if in our times the converse was realized, and it were no less true, that the greatest and richest nation in the world was ruined, if not by the cackling of a goose, by the parsimony of empirics. I have seen some attempts to shift on me the responsibility of the present condition of our fleet. This is not the time or place for my justification. But remember nearly five years have elapsed since my measures were entrusted to other hands. Some of them may have been marred by ignorance of my ulterior intentions; others may have been neglected, rescinded, or counteracted by design; but, in justice, do not let me be considered responsible for the present state of the British navy, be it what it may. Believe me in this, as in many other respects, the Administration of Lord Melbourne is not the Administration of Earl Grey." 284 l. l. 285 Hon. Member: 286
 Mr. Woverly Attwood  said, that in the course of the debate allusion had been made to the shipwrights, and he thought it highly important, that the complement of men in the dockyards should be increased, and that the dockyards should be maintained in a state of the greatest efficiency. He would avail himself of an-
 307
 Captain A'Court  said, there had lately been published a pamphlet, as he understood, by the Secretary of the Admiralty, of which he could not omit the opportunity of declaring his opinion, that it was full of mistakes, and, moreover, that it was written in such a vapouring style, that altogether its publication was a step which, in a Secretary of the Admiralty, could not but be looked upon as most irregular and unusual. He should also take that opportunity of returning his best thanks to Captain Craufurd and the "Flag
 266 267
 Captain Boldero  had before called the attention of the House to the condition of the marines. He had shown, that two years of service on shore were only counted as one afloat, when their claims to a pension were to be considered. Now, that was certainly most unjust, and such a system ought at once to be put an end to. He did not grudge Ministers their salaries, but he should like to know how they would feel were he to move a resolution, that they should be placed upon half-pay
 308 s.
 Lord Ashley  was understood to say, that the Government with which he had been connected had left the amount of stores rather greater than they had found them, and that, when leaving office, they had left the navy estimates about three-fourths prepared.
 Lord John Russell  had no wish to trespass on the Committee by prolonging this already protracted debate, but the explanation, or rather the second speech, of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Stamford, rendered it incumbent on him to say a few words. With respect to the question which the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool, had just raised—namely, the protection of our commercial interests in the Gulf of Mexico, the noble Lord had not stated, that there had been remonstrances made against that blockade, that the commercial interests of the country had been very much aggrieved by it, or had made any great complaints upon the subject. The point he spoke to was the special point upon which the right hon. Baronet had made a statement. The right hon. Baronet complained that there was not a sufficient British force in the Gulf of Mexico to protect British interests until after the capture of St. Jean d'Ulloa and the landing at Vera Cruz. The question was, whether it were the duty of this country to have entered into hostilities with France in order to have prevented that capture. If it was, then indeed would it have been the duty of his noble Friend at the head of the Admiralty to have done every thing that was possible, to have had a British force there in time. Then arose the question, whether any commercial interests had been endangered or injured by the absence of that force during the capture of St. Juan d'Ulloa, or the landing of the French at Vera Cruz. He said that there had not; and, moreover, that in neither instance had there been any danger either to person or property. Therefore, if there was no danger, there was no need of a protecting force. The hon. Baronet had taken advantage of the statement that our
 304 305
 Lord J. Russell  begged leave to say that he had only stated the general intention of the Government, but he did not give any undertaking upon the subject. He should decidedly object to the motion being withdrawn.
 Lord J. Russell  should object to its being withdrawn.
 Lord John Russell  begged to make a short statement to the House of what had occurred on this subject, and he would then leave it to the House to decide as it thought proper. It was perfectly true that the hon. Member for Finsbury at the beginning of the Session had asked whether it was the intention of her Majesty's Ministers, or of the Lord Chamberlain, to take off any of the restrictions which had hitherto been observed on Wednesdays and Fridays in Lent relating to theatrical entertainments, and that an answer was given that there was no such intention. That answer certainly implied that her Majesty's Ministers had not thought proper to advise her Majesty that those restrictions which had been placed, as it was said, from time immemorial upon theatrical entertainments during Lent should be taken off; and, after reflecting on the decision which he had then come to, he had no reason for supposing that they had judged ill in not giving her Majesty such advice. He was sure, on the contrary, that if, without any cause or general wish expressed, the custom which had hitherto been observed, and the restriction which had hitherto been imposed during Lent, had been relaxed by her present Majesty, many persons would have been shocked, and many others even of those who the other evening voted for the resolution of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Finsbury, would have declared that the present Ministers of the Crown, who had given such advice to her Majesty, had less respect and less regard for the established observances during Lent than had former Sovereigns and former Ministers in this country. He had never said, nor, indeed, had many other
 234 235 T. Duncombe 236 237 "That it is the opinion of this House, that during Lent, no greater restriction should be placed upon the theatrical entertainments within the city of Westminster than are placed upon the like amusements, at the same period, in every other part of the metropolis." 238 239
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that his hon. Friend ought to think himself exceedingly triumphant. His triumph could not be more conspicuous, after the noble Lord had given way to the decided opinion of the House and of the country. He must, therefore, request his hon. Friend to look to the impolicy of dividing the House, when the only result which could follow would be the loss of his amendment, by those hon. Members who had come down with an intention to support him, voting in opposition to him.
 Mr. C. Wood  felt himself called upon to make some observations after what had been said by the right hon. Member for Tamworth. He was sorry that any expressions which had fallen from him (Mr. Wood) should have given rise to the feeling on the part of hon. Gentlemen opposite, that he had made a party attack upon them. He had no intention of doing so, and the very circumstance stated by the right hon. Baronet—namely, that he had not done so in 1836, was in itself a pretty good proof that he could have had no such intention. The attacks were made upon the present Board of Admiralty, and he had felt himself throughout to be the assailed, and not the assailant party. He thought sufficient allowance had not been made for the position in which the Admiralty had been placed. Incessant attacks had been made upon them. He was aware that the representations which had been made of the inefficient state of the navy bad produced a considerable effect on the public mind; he did not conceal from himself that an impression most unfavourable to the Government had thus been created, and it was of the utmost importance to the character of the Government to put a stop to such unfounded representations. What were the statements? That the navy was in a bad state; that it had been brought to this state by reductions; and that the reductions had been made by the present Government. He denied that the navy was in a bad state; and of course, therefore, he denied that it had been brought to such a state by reductions. He did not expect, however, that the mere statement of the real facts would put a stop to representations made, as he believed, mainly for party purposes; and he had, therefore, thought it necessary to show, that if those persons still persisted in their complaints, that the navy had been reduced to a state of inefficiency, the blame must be attributed to hon. Gentlemen opposite who
 269 270 271 272 l. l., 273
 Mr. French  in reply to the call which had been made on him by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, stated, that although from political differences he did not even exchange the courtesy of a salute with the noble Lord, he could not as a matter of justice refuse to declare, that as a landlord, as a country gentleman, as a charitable, upright, and honourable man, Lord Lorton had not in that or any other country a superior. Since he (Mr. French) had had the honour of a seat in that House, he had purposely abstained from mixing in party debates, but as he was on his legs he trusted he should be excused for making a few observations on the subject then before them, if, indeed, his noble Friend the Secretary for Ireland had left anything to be said on it. Outrage in Ireland had been almost universally of an agrarian character, a fact that was shown by every writer on the subject from Primate Boulton in 1727, to the Commissioners of Poor Inquiry who were appointed in 1834. The class employing labourers in Ireland was comparatively small, and efforts to obtain constant employment, even at the lowest rate of wages, were seldom succesful. The possession of a portion of land was until the passing of the Poor-law bill the sole defence of the peasantry against utter destitution, and they naturally clung to it
 316 317 lex scripta "lex non scripta sed natas, quam non didicimus sed ex ipsa natura transimus, ad quam non docti sed facti sumus." Annals, 318 319
 Mr. Labouchere  understood the right hon. Gentleman to make it a matter of grave reprehension, that any allusions had been made to his Government in the way of censure, for having proposed to reduce, during his administration, the number of men in the navy. Now, what were the facts of the case? His hon. Friend, the Secretary for the Admiralty, said, in answer to long tirades of abuse, that had been cast on the Government, and which had been kept up systematically for the last six months, not only in the public prints and at public dinners, but in that House, that it was most improper to make such attacks on the Government of Lord Melbourne, and charge them with making improper reductions in the naval force of the country, for the lowest estimate that bad been presented to the House of Commons for a series of years, was prepared by the Government of the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Gentleman said, that he had given no encouragement to the attacks that had been made on the Government on this point. He fully admitted this, and would prove that many things were done by Gentlemen opposite to which the right hon. Baronet was no party, and which he would not in any way countenance. He was a member of the Board of Admiralty, when his right hon. Friend opposite (Sir J. Graham) was at the head of that department; he not only
 264 265
 Mr. Warburton  said, it seemed to him that the people were tired of peace, for they now heard of nothing but increasing the force of the country, and nothing was said of the oppression of taxation. But was not the country already taxed enough, and why had no hon. Member risen to defeat the clamour which had been raised about the large fleets of their neighbours? He trusted, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and all those who felt as he did, would avail themselves of a future opportunity of expressing their sentiments against the policy of increasing the force of the country in a time of peace.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that as the noble Lord had shown so strong a feeling of conciliation, those who supported the motion of his hon. Friend would be showing a very bad spirit if they did not meet the noble Lord with the same feeling.
 The Speaker : does the hon. Member propose to divide?
 Mr. Leader  said, that in the first place the answer of the noble Lord had been as unfair to his hon. Friend—he could prove it—it had been as unfair to his hon. Friend, as his conduct had been injurious to the theatrical performers of Westminster. It would seem that the noble Lord would wish the public to suppose that this observance was to be regarded as some sort of religious ceremony, not only in a particular part of the metropolis, but all over the country; while it was perfectly notorious that it was an observance which was only kept in Westminster, to the material injury of persons connected with the theatres in that part of the metropolis. If it were a religious observance, it should be kept up every where. Those persons who, as the noble Lord said, would be shocked at its removal, must be persons having that sort of conscience which was described by an hon. Member opposite some nights ago as a sort of India-rubber conscience, unless they were likewise shocked at the performances which took place in the parish of Lambeth, and all over the country. The noble Lord's comparison of the divisions on this subject was also most unfair. Hon. Members were surely aware that the opposition against his hon. Friend arose, in the first instance, from his having infringed a point of form in bringing forward his motion at an improper time, when it interfered with the presenting of petitions. Therefore, and not on account of the motion itself, had so many hon. Members voted against his hon. Friend. In the course which his hon. Friend now pursued, he thought that he was perfectly right, and that he could have pursued none other; for her Majesty's Ministers had thought proper to treat the resolution of that House with utter contempt, in acting and causing the Lord Chamberlain to act in direct opposition to it. The noble Lord treated it as a trifling matter, but it was no trifling matter to the theatrical performers, who lost one-third of their earnings in consequence of the observance being continued. The altered tone of the noble Lord, however, though it did not say much for his consistency, gratified him much, because the
 240
 Mr. Plumptre  thought it exceedingly wrong that the merchants of this great nation should be left, as it was proved they frequently had been of late years, totally unprotected in different parts of the world. It was scarcely to be wondered at, however, when sufficient protection was withheld even from our own shores.
 Mr. Hume  never heard more extraordinary speeches than had been delivered in the course of the debate on this subject. It seemed to him quite a race of extravagancies. Some hon. Members said, that the merchants were complaining of the want of protection to commerce. He had certainly heard no complaints of the kind. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, was the person who had spoken most on the subject; for him (Mr. Hume) the question was, not whether the navy ought to be increased, but how it was to be paid for. He certainly thought, that the Government of the right hon. Baronet deserved more credit than those Gentlemen whom he had been supporting all this time. The right hon. Baronet had very properly stated, that the financial committee of 1817 had given it, as their opinion, that 19,000 seamen and marines would be sufficient; and Sir J. Colborne had stated, that no more ought to be required during a peace than 16,000. Were we not now at peace? And if so, were those opinions to go for nothing? And was the country to be called on to keep up such a force as upwards of 34,000 men? There was no reason for keeping up so large a force, if it were not that they were continually intermeddling with everybody's business. There was no plea whatever for keeping up so large a force, contrary to the opinion of Sir George Cockburn, and to the opinion of the right hon. Baronet opposite, and contrary to the evidence upon which the force to be kept up was established in 1834 and 1835. To add to the burthens of the people by
 306
 Mr. Somerset Maxwell  bore testimony to the high and noble character of the "Flag Officer," who had been his friend, he said, for a series of years, and whom he knew to be possessed not only of the highest accomplishments, but of the most perfect integrity. The "Flag Officer" had been most unfairly aspersed by the hon. and gallant Admiral opposite in the previous debate.
 Mr. S. Maxwell : I have means of knowing the contrary. The gallant Admiral must know very well who "the Flag Officer" is. I have no occasion to mention his name; it is known to the whole country.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose to move as an amendment in pursuance of the notice he had given, the following resolution:
 "That this House having on a former day agreed to the following resolution, viz.—That it is the opinion of this House, that during Lent no greater restrictions should be placed upon Theatrical Entertainments within the city of Westminster, than are placed upon the like amusements at the same period in every other part of the metropolis. That this House learns with regret and surprise, that her Majesty's Ministers have thought fit to interfere with the wholly unfettered discretion which the Legislature has been pleased to vest in the Lord Chamberlain with respect to theatrical entertainments within the city of Westminster, by directing that officer of her Majesty's household so to exercise his discretionary authority as to defeat the manifest object of a resolution of the Commons House of Parliament." 230 231 232 233
 Mr. T. Duncombe : Yes, it appears to me that I am exactly where I was before. I do not wish to give the House the trouble to divide, but I do not consider the matter settled merely because the noble Lord says he will bring in a Bill on the subject. I wish to know whether he has the sanction of the Bishop of London, that he shall propose the measure he has suggested. I repeat that I do not wish to give the House the trouble to divide, but I have a right to ask this question. On a former occasion the noble Lord said, he had consulted the Bishop of London, and I simply ask whether that right rev. Prelate has given his sanction to the proposition which the noble Lord has made. I
 243
 Mr. T. Duncombe  inquired whether the noble Lord would pledge himself that next year the theatres would not have this restriction upon them which prohibited them from performing [cries of  "No, no!
 Mr. Duncombe  said, that under the circumstances he should withdraw his amendment.
 Dr. Lefroy  moved, that the adjourned debate on the Irish outrages be resumed. He said, that it might be irksome to resume this debate at so late an hour; but, on the former evening, when he was in possession of the House, he had waved his privilege on the understanding that he should have an opportunity on the present occasion of replying to certain charges which had been made by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin against persons in whom he felt the deepest interest. He felt called upon to draw the attention of the House at the earliest pos-
 309 ex parte 310 311 312 l., l., l., l. Cheers. 313 l. l. 314 scintilla 315
 Mr. Curry  thought the state of the navy very inefficient and that the ships were not only too few in number but of an inferior description. He was very well aware, that to restore it to a proper state, and render it sufficiently extensive, even for a peace establishment, would require a very large expenditure; but he was one of those who wished for efficiency first and economy after. They were sent there, no doubt, to protect the public purse, but likewise to protect the nation, and he never would consent, no matter how great might be the saving for the time, to put in jeopardy the safety of the British empire, or the honour of the British flag.
 Colonel Verner  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had dared any Member to show that the Irish Government had acted unfairly in regard to prosecutions. The noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, had also expressed his satisfaction at the vigilance and activity of the professional gentlemen who were employed on the part of the Crown. He had never doubted their vigilance or activity. On the contrary, he thought that in many instances they had shown too great a degree of vigilance and activity, but he did doubt their impartiality. In answer to the hon. and learned Member he would state a case which had come within his own knowledge. An inoffensive young man had been murdered not long since in the streets of Armagh. His crime was assisting to chair the individual now before them, and shouting for Verner. It appeared in evidence, that while the murder was perpetrating, his murderers said, "You shall never assist in chairing Colonel Verner again." Now, what was the conduct of the Crown upon their trial? All the respectable people in Armagh who were in the habit of acting upon petty juries were set aside, and a packed jury was obtained. The announcement of the verdict, which of course was one of acquittal, was received by the mob with shouts of "Down with Verner," and "To hell with Jones." The riot raised was permitted to continue till morning, and neither the magistrates nor the police made any attempt at interference. Thus much for this case. He had also received a letter from a most respectable person in Armaih, who stated, that in twenty-two months no less than fifty-three persons in the county gaol had had their punishments remitted either wholly or in part, and one man who was sentenced to be hanged, and the day of his execution fixed, was turned out of the gaol under the orders of the Lord-lieutenant. And yet this man had been guilty of a cold-blooded murder without any provocation! Without any provocation did he say? Oh, yes, there was provocation; for the mur-
 320 321
 Admiral Adam  said, all he could say was, that in what he had said, he had referred to the speech of his hon. Friend, the Secretary of the Admiralty, who had declared, that he had convicted the "Flag Officer" of wilful misrepresentation. That was his only expression on the subject. It was made out to his satisfaction. If the "Flag Officer" had quoted Sir John Barrow's book correctly, it would not have been possible for him to have framed the
 268
 Sir T. Troubridge  having been so pointedly alluded to by the hon. and gallant Member who had last addressed the House, felt it necessary to say, that he had nothing to do with the great coats of the marines. The rule respecting great coats had existed for fifty or sixty years.
 Sir G. Clerk  would not pretend to follow the noble Lord who had just sat down through all the topics of his speech. He would enter into no discussion upon his Spanish policy. The noble Lord was mistaken if he thought the cheers on the Opposition side of the House had any reference to the probability of an attack upon our shores. He had cheered the noble Lord because it was unfortunately too true, as that noble Lord bad stated, that our ships might arrive from the Mediterranean before those in our ports could be got ready for service. He would not go into the general question why we should have ten sail-of-the-line in the Mediterranean, while the shores of Great Britain were wholly unprotected; but he would recall the attention of the House to a charge made by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, and which had received no answer either from the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty or from the noble Lord who had just sat down. That charge was as to the delay which had taken place before the British Government had sent out to Vera Cruz any force to protect the interests of British subjects, when they were endangered by the French hostilities. Would not the noble Lord admit, that m the summer the quarrel between France and Mexico assumed a totally different character from that which it had before the attack upon San Juan d'Ulloa? Ministers had, in fact, acted on this view of the subject by sending a squadron into the Gulf of Mexico. But this squadron did not arrive there till the 28th of December, which was a month after the attack upon San Juan d'Ulloa, instead of being there, as it ought to have been, at the time of the attack, so as to afford protection to British interests. Therefore the only question really appeared to him to be, at what time had the British Government notice of the intended attack by France? He had no other sources of information but the newspapers; but he would take one which the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs might be supposed to have seen. It was stated in the  Globe 302 Palmerston.
 Sir J. Graham  said, it was not his intention, particularly after having drawn so largely on the indulgence of the House on a former evening, now to trespass long upon its attention; but the speech which had been made by the hon. Member who had just sat down, rendered it impossible for him not to address the Committee. The hon. Member had thought fit to comment upon his having abstained from giving a party character to the important subject. It was true he had done so; he had avoided it, feeling that the matter was much too important to be so dealt with, and it had been reserved to the hon. Member to make the present a ridiculous discussion. The hon. Member had talked of tailors, lawyers, and others, forming a ship's company, in a manner, and with a rapidity, which appeared natural to the mode in which he wished to treat the subject before the Committee. He would rather have been guilty of even imparting a party character to the question, than to have been supposed capable of treating it in the manner the hon. Member had chosen to himself. The hon. Member had referred to a speech made by him at Glasgow, and had read a report, which, in the main, was a correct report of that which he had said. On the face of that speech, it was apparent, that he was answering attacks which had previously been made upon him for some time before he delivered that speech, in the newspapers immediately connected with the Government, and generally supposed to be under their control, and in answer to attacks previously made in newspapers opposed to her Majesty's Ministers, it had been distinctly stated, that the state of the navy, whatever might be its deficiencies, was to be attributed to his administration of the affairs of the Admiralty; a discussion which had taken place on the day previous to the delivery of that speech, among the municipal body of Glasgow, as to whether the freedom of that city should be given to him or not,
 287 288 289 290 291 292 293
 Sir J. R. Reid  could, with truth, say, that there was but one feeling amongst the merchants as to the course pursued by the present Administration. The merchants, one and all, complained of want of protection, and he could assure the House, that that there was a material falling off in their trade in consequence of their interests not being attended to as they ought to be by the Government. Many ships had actually returned from Mexico with their cargoes on board, and the complaint was universal, that the mercantile interests of the country were neither properly protected nor attended to. He should, however, follow the example of the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool, and should avail himself of another opportunity of calling the attention of the House to this most important subject.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that notwithstanding the concession made by the noble Lord opposite to the hon. Member for Finsbury, he did hope that those who, on a former night, concurred with the noble Lord, would have, on the present occasion, an opportunity of giving a similar vote. He hoped that those who voted with him would not be guilty of the gross injustice and inconsistency of pronouncing a censure upon the conduct of Government for pursuing that which they, with the Government, held to be the right line. The question was not whether they acted up to their principles. [The hon. Baronet was interrupted by  "Hear, hear." 241
 Sir R. Peel  said, that it was not his intention to give any opposition to the vote which was proposed. Her Majesty's Government, on their own responsibility, had proposed for the consideration of the House, that a certain number of seamen should be the general naval establishment of this country, and it was nearly impossible for any Member of that House to enter so fully into the subject of the navy or army establishment as to be able to question the propriety of the grant, but the Government must be presumed to have a much more accurate knowledge of all the circumstances of the case, than those who had not access to official information, and who could judge therefore only by the general aspect of affairs; and therefore, unless there was something unusual in the vote which would lead to a strong belief that it was much too small, or that it was extravagantly great, it was extremely difficult for any hon. Member to propose an alteration in it. The main consideration which Parliament should have upon this subject was, as to the amount of the vote; and, in reference to this, they must look, first to the relative strength of the naval establishment in this country with that of the other powers; and secondly, to the present aspect of affairs, and the proba-
 244 245 246 247 248 249 250 251 252 253 "The first ground upon which he asked the House to consent to the resolution for an increase of 5,000 men was, that there was no British naval station in the world from which there were not pressing demands for an increased force. From the station in the Pacific, where the English trade was increasing very much, there were continued demands for an increase of naval force. The demands made upon the Admiralty in this respect had been reiterated through the Foreign-office by the Consuls of this country, as his noble Friend at the head of that department well knew.
 254 * * 255 sina quâ Palmerston 256 Globe "They say that the French would have been cut off but for the distance of the army from the city, and the unexpectedness of the disembarcation of the French, as the British Vice-Consul is said by Santa Anna to have pledged himself most faithfully for the French, that they were not to disembark until after eight o'clock in the morning. The situation of the British inhabitants may be conceived, when it is related that not a single man-of-war lay there." 257 "However, after the first movement of the French, about thirty persons obtained a refuge on board the Express, and the day after she left, the Madagascar arrived." Morning Chronicle, "The greater part of the wealthy inhabitants of Vera Cruz had proceeded to Jalapa, taking with them their valuables. No British ship of War was at Vera Cruz at the time of this occurrence, and the Express packet was therefore detained to receive on board the British subjects." 258 259 260 261 262 263
 Sir R. Peel  said, if he had recollected that the hon. Gentleman had objected to a reduction of the estimates on the occasion in question, he would have been the first to admit it, but he did not recollect anything of the sort. The report of the hon. Gentleman's speech, too, bore out his recollection of the debate.
 Sir C. Style  rose, and was maintaining that under former Administrations there was less security for property than now existed in Ireland, when the House was counted out.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that it was not his intention to go into a discussion of all the minute points touched upon by the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, but, rather, to direct his remarks to the larger questions touched upon by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, and the right hon. Baronet who had last spoken. He thought that the Secretary of the Admiralty had satisfactorily shown that there had been no neglect of British interests in regard to the French operations on the coast of Mexico, as had been imputed to the ministers by the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Baronet, as it appeared to him, had confounded the date and course of the different events in which France had been engaged in this transaction. The first event in these transactions was the demand through the French consul of certain concessions on the part of the Mexican government, with an intimation, that unless these demands were entirely, and without delay, complied with, the affairs were then to be placed in the hands of the naval officer in command on the station, who would act according to the instructions he had already received. The complaint against the Government was, that we had not a sufficiently commending force on the station; and certainly it was very true that we had no such
 294 295 296 297 298 299 300 301
 Viscount Sandon  was not in the House when the noble Lord (Palmerston) had addressed it; but he understood that the noble Lord had stated that the commercial interests of Britain were satisfied with what had been done by the Government regarding the blockade of Mexico. He would appeal to any person acquainted with the commercial interests of the country whether that was the fact. He would appeal likewise to the correspondence with the noble Lord himself, and to the petitions which would be laid on the Table of the House on Wednesday next, from which he thought the contrary would be found to be the fact.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the memorial to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded, was received on the 22d of January, 1839, and an answer returned to it on the day following but one. In consequence of some error it came back returned to the Treasury. No disrespect whatever was intended towards the memorialists. With respect to any intention on the part of the Government of opening the Post Office on Sundays there was not the slightest possible shadow of a ground for supposing that they had ever entertained the idea of opening the Post Office for the receipt and delivery of letters on Sundays, though that idea had been entertained by others. But with respect to delivering letters to those parties who might apply for them, that was a question that, perhaps, might be entertained; but on that he begged to reserve his opinion.
 Sir George Strickland,  in seconding the motion, commenced by remarking, that the party who had so long in that House supported the Corn-laws, did not now seem perfectly united among themselves; and some of them appeared to be receding from the high ground which they once occupied, and to admit, that the Corn-laws were, after all, not founded in absolute wisdom. The farmers throughout the country were beginning to ask the question, how far these laws had been for their advantage. He considered these laws unjust, because they gave protection to one part of the community at the expense of the great body of the community, and were thus contrary to sound national policy. The manufacturing interests represented that as corn in this country varied to 70 s. s. s., 362 363 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s s. s. s. s. s. s. 364 365 366 s. s., s. s. s. s. 367
 Mr. Cockerill  of Liege, here alluded to, lately suspended payment, and to shew the interest of the Government in undertakings of this nature, it advanced money for his relief, and took up his liabilities, when the banks refused. The King of Belgium, I know as a fact, likewise, not long since, offered to, I believe, the largest silk manufacturer in England, a patent for twenty years, of the district of Bruges, and ten miles round it, if he would go and establish himself there. Our mechanics and artizans, are tempted abroad by the great encouragement given to them, by foreign powers; they are received as teachers there; and are not driven from this country by the Corn-laws. Not long since an Englishman, of the name of Wilson, received the honorary rank of Major-general, from the Emperor, for superintending a cotton-factory at Moscow. All these facts demonstrate the eager interest taken in manufactures abroad, and that they are not to be cajoled out of them. Mr. Rawson's statements to the delegates at Manchester, have been much discussed. The  Morning Chronicle "The most important facts stated by Mr. Rawson, a Nottingham hosier, at the second meeting of the chamber of commerce at Manchester, did not find their way into the reports
 406 s. d. s. "He did not think, that even the repeal of the Corn-laws, would enable them to maintain a competition; but for any others to think, that anything short of a total repeal would do them any good, was merely delusion." "Nottingham, Feb. 28, 1839. "Mr. Rawson's statements cannot be substantiated. I have this morning seen a very considerable manufacturer of cotton hosiery, who has recently been in Saxony, and he informs me, that Saxon machinery and Saxon mechanics are not worth a moment's consideration. Some of their stockings he showed me, and they are a very inferior article indeed, although they are the best made by the Saxons; therefore it can be only in the most shabby and spurious articles of our trade where they can, in any manner, compete with us. The
 407 s. 
 
 £. s. d. 
 Workmen 0 14 0 
 Cotton, 2lbs., at 2 s. 0 5 3 
 Bleaching 0 1 2 
 Warehouse expenses 0 1 7 
 Time, profits, &c. * 2 0 
 £1 4 0 
 
 Workmen's wages, 72 hours in the week, 12 pair of hose, at 1 s. d. 0 14 0 
 Deduct— s. d. 
 Frame-rent 1 0 
 Seaming 1 0 0 3 0 
 Fire, candle, &c. 0 6 
 Needles 0 6 
 Nett wages £0 11 0 s. d. s. s. * s. 408 "Independent of the duty laid on English cloths in Germany, Prussian cloths are sold much cheaper than English. English fine woollens are already excluded from Germany, and from several neutral markets; and as soon as the Prussians can sufficiently extend their manufacture—which they are doing with astonishing rapidity—they will beat the English in all neutral markets, and probably in the home market of England itself, notwithstanding the import duty on foreign woollens in this country." l. l. 409 
 
 EXPORTS. 
 Official value. Declared do. 
 1816 34,774,521 40,328,940 
 1820 37,820,293 35,569,077 
 1825 47,166,020 38,877,388 
 1831 60,683,933 37,163,649 
 1836 84,883,276 53,615,430 
 
 COTTON GOODS EXPORTED. 
 Yards. Value. Twist-lb. Value. 
 1820 248,370,630 £13,153,529 23,032,325 £2,826,639 
 1828 363,328,431 12,483,249 50,505,751 3,595,405 
 1836 637,667,627 17,183,167 88,191,046 6,120,366
 Dr. Kay,  an assistant Poor-law commissioner, in a report to the central board, dated July 22, 1835, stated, that 3,753,000 l. * * 416 * Comparative Value of the Home and Foreign Trade of Great Britain in certain articles. 
 
 SUNDRY MANUFACTURED ARTICLES. Produced. Exported. Home trade greater than Foreign Trade in the shief articles of Export. 
 1834. Cotton goods £52,513,586 £20,513,586 260  pr cent. 
 1834. Woollen goods 44,250,000 5,736,871 770 
 1834. Linen goods 15,421,186 2,579,658 600 
 1834. Silk goods 13,425,510 637,013 2,100 
 1834. Iron, hardware, and cutlery 38,170,600 2,869,437 1,300 
 1834. Brass and copper 4,900,192 961,606 510 
 1834. Cabinet wares, papers, &c. 14,000,000 377,941 3,700 
 Totals 170,537,459 33,666,112 500 pr cent. 417 Loud cries of hear, hear, hear! 418
 Mr. Poulett Thomson. —Sir, I suppose it is not likely that the present debate will terminate this night, but I rise for the purpose of addressing the House, because I shall not be able, I fear, to take another occasion of doing so on the present subject, in consequence of the indisposition under which I labour. I therefore must, however late in the evening, throw myself upon the indulgence of the House, but in return, I will endeavour to compress my observations, and the arguments I mean to bring forward upon the present occasion, into the smallest possible compass. It would, indeed, be extremely difficult now to say anything new upon a matter which has already been so much discussed, and which has been canvassed so frequently both in and out of this place. Before I proceed, however, I I must say that I rejoice that this question
 419 420 Cheers. 421 s. 422 s. d., s., s. s. s., s. s. s. s. "It seems to me desirable, that if there is to be a trade in corn at all, it should be conducted as far as possible on the principle of other trades, in a sober regular course, and not by perpetual jerks and impulses, arising out of extraordinary emergencies. I am persuaded that if importation be always free, taking sufficient security against an inundation of the home market, it will flow in a regular equable current, supplying the real wants of the country without overwhelming it; instead of ren-
 423 s. s. s. s. s. s. s., s. s. s. s. s., s., s., s., s., s., s., s., s., s., s. s., s. s., s. * 424 "His Majesty laments that, notwithstanding this indication of active commerce, distress should prevail among the agricultural and manufacturing classes in some parts of the United Kingdom." "I deeply lament the distress which still prevails in many parts of my dominions; and for which the preservation of peace both at home and abroad will, under Divine Providence, afford the best and most effectual remedy." 425 I have to lament the continuance of distress amongst the proprietors and occupiers of land." "I deeply lament that the agricultural interest continues in a state of great depression." "I lament that any class of my subjects should still suffer distress, and the difficulties which continue to be felt in important branches of agriculture may deserve your inquiry with a view of ascertaining whether there are any measures which Parliament can advantageously adopt for the alleviation of this pressure." minimum 426 s. 427 Cheers. l. l. 428 "I am perpetually told, that England must reduce her own tariff before she can reasonably expect Germany to do so." "I am opposed to anything like particular protection given to any branch of industry, being convinced that such protection is a general tax on the community. "We have few articles besides coarse linens and natural produce, as corn, and cattle, and probably some of the wool, which we send by the Neckar and Rhine to Holland, that would find their way to your markets at reduced duties; but, settle the preliminaries of a commercial treaty with Prussia, and I presume there will not be much difficulty in Wurtemberg adhering to it." 429 "M. Kuchné, the Prussian Commissiary, is a gentleman of intelligent views, and seems fully to comprehend the importance of a commercial treaty with England, but argues our Corn-laws are the supreme obstacle. He is at the same time said to be the most skilful member of the Congress." "Baron Smit, the Wurtemberg Minister at the Bavarian Court, the proprietor of the  Germanic Union "If any arrangement be entered into, you must begin at Berlin, and a reduction of your corn duties to a fixed rate must be preliminary to any understanding as to a reduction on our part of duties on your commodities."
"Without saying how such an arangement could be effected, I alluded to the proposed reduction of the duty on timber, and such as would probably be made on some other articles, as linens, Nuremburg wares, mineral water, &c.; but he took his stand upon corn, saying the other reductions were but of little consequence." 430 l., l. l. l. l. l. l., 431 s., s., s, s. s. s. s. s. 432 s. d. s. s. s. s. d. s. s. s. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 433 434 "The public opinion must be hostile to the present Corn-law. The receivers of rent are a very small body. Backed by public opinion they are almost omnipotent—in violation of public opinion they cannot long retain an exclusive advantage. The contest is fearful, for on what ground will it be decided? On the very topic which inflames to madness, that hunger, which breaks through walls, will be arrayed against them. The barriers of society will be broken down, and estates, distinctions, honors, swept away in one resistless torrent. Let those who seek high prices at all risks remember the words of Tacitus:—'Vulgus ad magnitudinem beneficiorum aderat, stultissimus quisque pecuniis mereabatur; apud sapientes cassa habebantur, quæ neque dari neque accipi salvâ republicâ, poterant.'"
 Mr. P. Thomson : May I ask the name of the individual to whom the hon. Gentleman has alluded.
 Mr. C. P. Villiers  said,
 334 335 336 337 338 "I wished to in close a farm at the latter end of the year 1812, or the beginning of 1813. I sent for my bailiff and told him, that I had enclosed, about twenty-five years ago, a good deal of land; that the inclosure at that time cost me three shillings per ell of thirty-seven inches; that a neighbour of mine, two or three years ago, had made similar inclosures which cost him five shillings per ell; that I thought he had paid too much, and that I ought to do it cheaper. The answer I got from my bailiff was—that provisions were very high, that the labourers were doing double work, and that, of course, there was less demand for labour; and that be could do these inclosures last year at a cheaper rate than I had ever done them; and he actually executed this inclosure at about two shillings and sixpence per ell. Tie again came to me, and told me, that I had proposed to him to do some ditching and draining upon another farm, which I did not intend to
 339 340 s., s. d. s. s., s., s., s., s. s. s. s. s. s. s., s. 341 s. s. s., s. s. s. s 342 343 s. s. 344 345 346 s. s. s. 347 s., s., d., 348 349 s. l. 350 l. l. l. l. 351 d. l. l. 352 353 354 minimum 355 356 357 358 359 l. 360 361
 Mr. Cayley.  Sir, Doubtless the hon. Gentleman who has introduced this motion for the consideration of the House has done it with much ability; but his ingenuity will not stand in the place of truth, and my only fear in rising to oppose him is in the reflection that the justice and merits of those views I espouse, may suffer from the deficiencies of the advocate. From the general tone of the speeches which have just been delivered I should not, had I been acquainted with
 368 369 s. d. s. s., s. 370 371 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. 
 1. That, under the heavy debt and taxation of this country, its productive industry and vested interests require to be protected from the lightly taxed produce and cheaper labour of foreign countries. 2. That the existing Corn-law, by the protection it has afforded to the grower of corn under low prices, and to the consumer of it under high, has essentially answered the purposes of its enactment. 372 373 374 
 
 Proportion of Debt at per head. 
 £ 
 Great Britain £800,000,000 32 0 0 
 France 194,400,000 5 19 7 
 Russia 35,550,000 0 11 9 
 Austria 78,100,000 2 7 6 
 Prussia 29,701,000 2 7 7 
 Netherlands 148,500,000 23 5 5 
 Spain 70,000,000 5 0 8 
 United States — — 
 Sicilies 18,974,000 2 11 2 
 Bavaria 11,311,000 2 16 0 
 Sardinia 4,584,000 1 1 2 
 Turkey 3,667,000 0 7 8 
 Sweden — — 
 Portugal 5,649,000 1 2 6 375 
 
 Denmark 3,729,000 1 18 4 
 Rome 17,142,000 7 9 0 
 Poland 5,740,000 1 3 3 
 Saxony 3,300,000 2 9 1 
 Hanover 2,384,000 1 11 0 
 Baden 1,670,000 1 9 2 
 Wurtemburg 2,505,000 1 12 7 
 Tuscany 1,384,000 1 4 11 
 Hesse (Darmstadt) 1,184,000 1 3 11 
 Hesse (Electorate) 220,000 0 6 1 
 Switzerland — — 
 Norway 252,000 0 3 10 
 East India Company's territories 47,609,000 0 9 0 l. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. l. l. d. s. d. d. s. 376 d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 
 
 Quarters. 
 Annual consumption: average of ten years duty, ending 1723, duty 6 d. 3,542,000 
 Annual consumption: average of ten years duty, ending, 1823, duty 2 s. d. 3,182,776 
 Decreased consumption 359,224 
 
 Malt per Head. Gallons. 
 Population, first period, 5,500,000 41 
 Population, second period, 12,000,000 16 
 Decrease 25 377 
 
 1834 higher than 1790. Per Cent. 
 Agricultural labour 46 
 Carpenters' work 77 
 Smiths' work 66 
 Sadlers' work 63 
 Thatchers' work 58 
 Masons' work 66 
 HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES. 
 Tea, sugar, candles, malt, &c. 30 
 Shoemakers' work 64 
 Tailors' work 55 
 Coopers' work. 73 
 Domestic servants and education 66 
 LOCAL TAXES. 
 Poor-rates. 116 
 Highway-rates 200 
 County-rates. 550 
 Church-rates. 700 378 
 
 Agricultural occupiers 1,500,000 
 Agricultural labourers 4,800,000 
 Mining interest 600,000 
 6,900,000 
 Manufacturers 2,400,000 
 Millers, bakers, and butchers 900,000 
 Artificers, builders, &c 650,000 
 Tailors, shoemakers, and hatters 1,080,000 
 Shopkeepers 2,100,000 
 Clerical, legal, and medical 450,000 
 Disabled paupers 110,000 
 Proprietors, annuitants 1,116,398 
 6,406,398 379 l. l. 380 "Cotton factories, 1,262—viz., in England, 1,070; Wales, 5; Scotland, 159; Ireland, 28. In England there are 42 factories empty, all the others are employed. There are 220,134 persons employed in these factories—viz., males 100,495; females, 119,639. Of these, between eight and twelve years, 8,197—viz, males, 4,528; females, 3,669. Between twelve and thirteen years, 20,574—viz., males, 10,663; females, 9,911. Between thirteen and eighteen years, 65,486—viz, males, 27,251; females, 38,235. Above eighteen years, 125,877—viz., males, 58,053; females, 67,824. "Wool factories, 1,313—viz., in England, 1,102; Wales, 85; Scotland, 90; Ireland, 36. In England there are 9 factories empty; all the others are employed. There are 71,274 persons employed in these factrie—viz., males, 37,477; females, 33,797. Of these, between eight and twelve years, 4,764—viz., males, 2,481; females, 2,283. Between twelve and thirteen years, 8,558—viz., males, 4,290; females, 4,268. Between thirteen and eighteen years, 21,250—viz., males, 10,138; females, 11,112. Above eighteen years 36,702—viz., males, 20,568; females, 16,134. "Silk factories, 238—viz, in England, 221; Wales, none; Scotland, 6; Ireland, 1. In England there are 25 factories empty; all the others are employed: There are 30,682 persons employed in these factories—viz., males, 10,188; females, 20,494. Of these, between eight and twelve years, 6,411—viz., males, 2,486; females, 3,925. Between twelve and thirteen years, 2,663—viz., males, 952; females, 1,711. Between thirteen and eighteen years, 9,451—viz., males 2,636; females, 6,815. Above eighteen years, 12,457—viz., males, 4,114; females, 8,043. "Flax factories, 347—viz., in England, 152; Wales, none; Scotland, 170; Ireland, 25. There are 33,283 persons employed in these factories—viz., males, 10,305; females, 22,888. Between eight and twelve years, 1,216—viz., males, 592; females, 624. Between twelve and thirteen years, 4,072—viz, males, 1,782: females, 2,290. Between thirteen and eighteen years, 10,021—viz., males, 3,457; females, 8,654. Above eighteen years, 15,974—viz., males, 4,564; females, 11,410.
"Total of the four manufactures, 3,236 (including 76 empty).—Persons employed, 355,373—viz., males, 158,555; females, 196,818." 381 "There is no doubt that broad cloths were made in England as early as the close of the twelfth, or beginning of the thirteenth century; but the Flemings were at that time far more advanced in the art than our own countrymen, and a considerable part of the cloths, then, and for a long time afterwards, worn in this country were made in Flanders from wool, the produce of English flocks. From a very early period the woollen manufacture has been an object of the especial protection of the English Government. Originally, indeed, the freest exportation of wool was allowed, but in 1660 it was strictly prohibited, and this law remained in force until 1825; the prohibition was grounded upon the belief, that the long staple, or combing wool of England, is superior for some manufacturing purposes, to that of any other country, and that by keeping the raw material at home, we should secure to ourselves the exclusive manufacture of certain fabrics." 382 s., s. 383 13th and 14th Car. 2nd.—To restrain the exportation of leather and raw hides out of England. 13th and 14th Car. 2nd.—An act prohibiting importing foreign bone lace, cut work, embroidery, fringe, bond-strings, buttons, and needle-work. 13th and 14th Car. 2nd.—Against importing foreign wool-cards, wire, or iron-wire. 15th Car.—An act for encouragement of trade. 1st Jas. 2nd—Against importation of gunpowder, arms, and other ammunition, and utensils of war. 1st Jas. 2nd —To encourage building of ships in England. 1st Will. and Mary—For better preventing exportation of wool, and encouraging woollen manufacture, of this kingdom. 4th and 5th Will. and Mary—Prohibiting all foreign hair buttons. 18th Car. 2nd—Against importing fish taken by foreigners. 32nd and 33rd Car. 2nd—Preventing the planting of tobacco in England. 7th and 8th Will. and Mary—An additional duty upon all French goods and merchandise, and prohibiting the export of any frame or engine, or part of the same, for making or knitting worsted and silk stockings, waistcoats, gloves, and other wearing apparel. 7th and 8th Will. and Mary—Another act against exporting wool. 9th and 10th Will. and Mary—Another act against exporting wool. 10th and 11th Will. and Mary—Another act against exporting wool. 11th and 12th Will. and Mary—An act for employing the poor by encouraging manufactures. 3rd and 4th Anne—To permit Irish linen to be exported to the plantations, and to prohibit Scotch linen import into Ireland. 6th Anne—200 l. l. 10th Anne—Duties on all soap, paper, chequered, and striped linens imported. 12th Anne—An act to encourage making of sail-cloth in Great Britain; and 45th Geo. 3rd a bounty granted on export of British made sail-cloth or canvas fit for or made into, sails. 1st Geo. 1st—To prevent fresh fish being imported taken by foreigners. 8th Geo. 1st—To encourage silk manufactures, to take off duties on merchandize ex-
 384 49th Geo. 3rd—Grants allowances to be paid on exportation of the silk manufactures, of this kingdom, or silk mixed with other materials. 9th Geo. 2nd—Against import of fresh fish taken by foreigners. Ditto—Encouragement of sail-cloth; securing duties on foreign ditto; and requiring certain vessels to have a complete suit of British sail-cloth. 18th Geo. 2nd—Relates to bounties on exportation of British or Irish linens. 19th Geo. 2nd—Securing duties on foreign sail-cloth, and compelling one set of British sail-cloth to each new ship in Great Britain. 22nd Geo. 2nd—To prevent importation and wear of foreign embroidery and brocade, gold and silver thread, lace, &c. 23rd Geo. 2nd—To effectually punish persons convicted of seducing artificers in the manufactures of Great Britain and Ireland out of the dominions of the Crown; and to prevent the exportation of utensils made use of in the woollen and silk manufactures. 23rd Geo. 2nd—To encourage import of pig or bar iron from colonies in America; and to prevent the erection of any mill or other engine for slitting or rolling of iron, or any plating forge to work with a tilt hammer, or any furnace for making steel in any of the said colonies. 26th Geo. 2nd—To encourage silk manufacture, and to prevent import of velvets, &c. 29th Geo 2n—To grant a bounty on export of certain kinds of British and Irish linen, &c., and taking off of duties on importation of foreign raw linen made of flax. [This shows foreign manufactures at that time.] 5th Geo. 3rd—To supply the export trade to Africa with such coarse printed calicoes and other goods of the manufacture of the East-Indies as are prohibited to be worn or used in Great Britain. Ditto—To prohibit foreign manufactured silk stockings, mitts, and gloves. 6th and 48th Geo. 3rd—To prohibit foreign wrought silks and velvets. 7th Geo. 3rd—To enforce 18th, 21st, and 32nd Geo 2nd for preventing fraudulent importations, and wearing of cambrics and French lawns. 9th Geo. 3rd—Prohibits export of pig and bar iron under certain circumstances. 10th Geo. 3rd—Bounty granted on exportation of British check and striped linens, and upon British and Irish diapers, huckabacks, sheeting, and other linen, of above a certain breadth. 10th Geo. 3rd—To prevent fraudulent importations of bast, straw, chip, cane, and horsehair hats and bonnets. 14th Geo. 3rd—To prevent exportation of utensils made use of in the cotton, linen, woollen and silk manufactures of this kingdom. 21st Geo. 3rd—Repetition of the above act (amended). 22nd Geo. 3rd—To prevent seduction of
 385 24th Geo. 3rd—To encourage the hat manufactory, and to prevent the exportation of British hare-skins, British hare-wool, and coney-wool, and to prevent their being dyed or stained. 25th Geo. 3rd—Duties on leather cut in the shape of gloves. Ditto—To prevent importation of foreign made cordage. 25th Geo. 3rd—Prohibits exports of tools used in steel and iron manufactories, and to prevent seduction of workmen, engaged in those trades, abroad. 26th Geo. 3rd—Further encouragement of fisheries in Greenland seas, and Davis' Straits. Ditto—Allows a drawback of the duties on coals used in smelting copper and lead ores, and in fire-engines in the Isle of Anglesey. 28th Geo. 3rd—Preventing export of live sheep, lambs, and rams, wool, yarn, worsted, coverlids, wadding, or beds stuffed with combed wool, or wool fit for combing. 34th Geo. 3rd—Imposing duties on paper, pasteboard, millboard, glazed-paper, &c., 34th Geo. 3rd—Prohibits import of cambric and lawn from Ireland, until Ireland prohibits cambric and lawn from being imported from France. 38th Geo. 3rd Further encouragement of southern whale fisheries. 41st Geo. 3rd—To authorise his Majesty from time to time to prohibit the exportation of provisions or food. 45th Geo. 3rd—Perpetuating encouragement of sail-making. Ditto—Additional duties on import of foreign plate-glass. 46th Geo. 3rd—Better encouragement of manufacture of thread-lace in Great Britain. 47th Geo. 3rd—To permit import of German (the same as Prussian) yarn in foreign ships on the same duties as in British. 47th Geo. 3rd—To permit fuller's earth and tobacco-pipe clay to be exported to any possession of his Majesty. Ditto—To allow bounties on British calicoes and cottons exported to Malta, the same as to Gibraltar. 48th Geo. 3rd—Prohibits foreign wrought silks and velvets. 50th Geo. 3rd—To discontinue bounty on export of oil of vitriol; drawback of part of duties paid on import of foreign brimstone, and in making oil of vitriol. Ditto.—To prohibit import of Italian silks, crapes, and tiffanies. 51st Geo. 3rd—Drawback on deals and timber used in mines of tin, copper, and lead, in the counties of Cornwall and Devon. 51st Geo. 3rd—To allow more sheep to be carried from England to the Isle of Man than are now allowed by law. 52nd Geo. 3rd—To allow more worsted yarn to be exported to Canada. 53rd Geo. 3rd—To allow bounty on exports
 386 54th Geo. 3rd—To allow a bounty on export of British made cordage. 1st and 2nd Geo. 4th—Drawback on coal-duties in draining coal-mines in Pembroke-shire, 3rd Geo. 4th—Continues bounties on British and Irish linen exported. Act passed 5th July, 1825. 387 s. s.
 Mr. Cayley : I will inform my right hon. Friend presently. The orator went on to contend that the agriculturists were defrauded of their 80 s. 392 393 Cheers 394 s s d d. d. d. s. s. s. d. s. s. s. 395 
 
 Deecennial Average. Lowest Price. Highest Price. 
 Dantzic 32 10 21 8 45 6 All above 100 pr. ct. fluctuation 
 Hamburgh 30 2 20 0 41 0 
 Rotterdam 37 9 25 6 52 6 
 England 56 0 39 0 66 0 Less than 75 per cent 396 s. 397 s. d. s. 398 l., l. 399 "That in 1820 we exported to Russia 13,203,857, yards of cotton cloth; in 1837 our exports to that country were reduced to 847,022 yards only. In 1820, we exported to Prussia 5,442,535 yards of cloth, now we exported not a yard! To Germany in 1820 we exported 47,658,285 yards, in 1837 our exports to that country had fallen off to 38,581,533 yards. In fact the consequence of our policy has been to reduce our exports to Europe less by twenty per cent. than their amount during the five years after the establishment of peace. Our exports to northern Europe were less by 7,400,000 l. 400 401
 Mr. Cayley : Does the hon. Member appear here as the delegate of the boot-makers? Is he sure that he speaks their sentiments?
 Mr. Cayley : I suspect the hon. Member very often pretends to be speaking the sentiments of others, when in fact he is only speaking his own. Then take the case of the glovers; as good gloves can be bought in Paris for 1 s. d. s. s. d. "Merchants and manufacturers are the people who derive the greatest benefit from the monopoly of the home market. The prohibition of the importation of foreign cattle and salt provisions, together with the high duties upon foreign corn, which, in times of moderate plenty, amount to a prohibition, are not near so advantageous to the graziers and farmers of Great Britain as other regulations of the same kind are to its merchants and manufacturers. Manufactures, those of the finer kinds especially, are more easily transported from one country to another than corn and cattle. In manufactures, a very small advantage will enable foreigners to undersell our own workmen, even in the home markets. The expense of the landlord and farmer is in home-made commodities. The greatest and most important branch of the commerce of every nation is that which is carried on between the inhabitants of the town and those of the country. The interest of the landholder is strictly and inseparably connected with the general interest of society—whatever either promotes or affects the one, necessarily promotes or affects the other." 388 "His hon. friend, the Member for Portarlington, (Mr. Ricardo) had argued as if he had dropped from another planet—as if this were a land of the most perfect liberty of trade—as if there were no taxes, no drawbacks, no bounties, no searchers, or any other branch of trade but agriculture—as if, in this Utopian world of his hon. Friend's creation, the first measure of restriction ever thought on was that on the importation of corn—as if all classes of the community were alike—as if all trades were on an equal footing; and that, in this new state, we were called upon to decide the abstract question, whether or not there should be a protecting price for corn. But we were not in this condition; we were in a state of society in which we had manufactures of almost every description, protected in every way, even to criminal enactments, to prevent the raw material from going out of the country
 389 l. l. 390 s. s., s. 391
 Mr. Hume : No; I speak for myself.
 Mr. Hume : He would like it very well if he had no Corn-laws.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  spoke amidst many marks of impatience, and was understood to say that he trusted the House would indulge him with a few moments attention. He was perfectly aware of the difficulty of following a Gentleman who had made this subject his own. He thought, however, that some remarks of that right hon. Gen-
 435 436 437 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 438 439 "Woburn Abbey, Jan. 14, 1822. "It being impossible by means of the Corn Bill to restore the war prices, I beg of you seriously to consider whether a new Corn Bill is likely to do you at present any good whatever. Supposing you were allowed to frame it yourselves, or that the Legislature should enact a prohibition at all times to import any article, the produce of the soil of Great Britain, would your distress be at all relieved? I think not. I think also, if you agree thus far, you must also agree with me that any efforts in this direction are not likely to be attended with benefit to yourselves. For the truth of this I appeal to the best of all tests—the experience of last year. By active petitioning you obtained a committee on the state of agriculture. And what was the result? Evidence proving the distress beyond all doubt, and a report suggesting no relief but time and patience. Time has not yet brought you any consolation; and, as for patience, you surely did not require twenty-one Gentlemen to sit three months for the purpose of recommending that well-known virtue. "But the committee have also advised an alteration of the Corn Bill. That is to say, they recommend a lower importation price with a duty. Whether such a law as a permanent system might not be better than the present I am not quite prepared to decide. But it is clear that lowering the importation price would bring you no relief for present distress. And I am inclined to believe that, with many sugared words, the framer of the report intended to lay the foundation for subverting the principle of the Corn Bill altogether, and introducing foreign corn at all times into the market; for the principle of admitting foreign corn when our own prices are low being once granted, it would be extremely difficult to counterbalance the taxes paid by the English farmer. A duty of 40 s. s. 440 "There is a party amongst us, however, distinguished in what is called the science of political economy, who wish to substitute the corn of Poland and Russia for our own. Their principle is, that you ought always to buy where you can buy cheapest. They repeat with emphasis that the nation pays a tax of 25,000,000 l. "It is to these men, I suspect, that our Ministers are about to give up the question of trade in corn."
 Sir R. Inglis,  seeing the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, wished to ask him a question respecting a memorial presented by 1,600 solicitors against the proposed plan of opening the Post Office on Sundays. As the receipt of that memorial had not been acknowledged, the memorialists were anxious to have a statement from the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the views of the Government on the subject.
 The Earl of Darlington  said, that the Gentlemen who advocated the abolition of the Corn-laws were not content with the extent, great as it was, to which this country pushed her manufactures; nothing would serve them but to make this country manufacture for every other country in Europe, if not the whole world; they would not allow any country to manufacture for itself. But he contended, that this, in the present state of Europe, was impossible; and if it were possible, it would not be just. Now hon. Gentlemen were accustomed to say on this question, that it ought to be considered as affecting the interests of every class; unless, therefore, it could be shown, that to make this country a manufacturing country would be advantageous, or, at the least, not detrimental, to the interests of the
 496 s. 497 s. s. 498 499 500 l., l., l. l. 501 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 502 503 504 505 s. s. s., s. d.
 Mr. Wodehouse  was perfectly convinced that the changes proposed by way of protection for agriculture were delusive, but he begged, at the same time to state, that if the present Corn-laws could not be shown, on a fair calculation, to be advantageous, not only to the landed interest, but to the commercial, manufacturing, and agricultural interests all combined, and to work well for the general good, he was ready to admit, that the sacrifice of the those laws ought to be made, though unquestionably, that sacrifice would be attended with heavy calamities. He maintained, however, that the law of 1828 had been most unfairly dealt with. At the introduction of that law, it was distinctly declared, that the object of it was to give increased facilities to import; and he ventured to assert, that that object had been attained. But when the President of the Board of Trade told the House,  quasi 521 s. s. 522 s. s., s. s. 523 524
 Mr. Grote  addressed the House as follows:—The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has talked in emphatic language of the sordid and selfish feelings embodied in the Motion for repealing the Corn-laws. Considering that he is defending a law which, whatever be its other merits, has at least two effects, that of taxing every man in the community in the consumption of his daily bread, and of putting high rents into the pockets of the landlords, I must say, that it is not from the hon. Member's side of the House that imputations of sordid and selfish feelings ought to emanate. Both the hon. Member for Lincolnshire, and those Gentlemen who have preceded him on his side of the question, seem to me to have been remarkably sparing in their explanations of the benefits which have been actually derived from the Corn-laws. He tells us that the Corn-laws have protected the grower against low prices, and the consumer against high prices. How is this consistent with the fact? A few weeks ago the price of wheat was 85 s. s. 476 477 478 479 s. s. s. s. 480 d. d., 481 482 483 484 d. 485 486 487 488 489 490 s. s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d. s., s. 491 s. s. s. d., d. 492 493 494 495
 The Speaker  having read the Order of the Day for resuming this debate,
 Mr. Christopher  hoped he should receive the indulgence of the House while he stated as briefly as possible the reasons which induced him to oppose the motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. He could assure the House if it were not from the circumstance of his being the Representative of a very large agricultural constituency, and of his feeling very strongly the injustice and impolicy of the hon. Member's proposal, he would not, suffering as he was from a severe cold, attempt to offer himself to the notice of the House. He rejoiced that the hon. Member had at last brought this question fully and fairly under the consideration of the House, and although the hon. Gentleman had framed his motion with a view to secure the votes of hon. Members who held conflicting opinions on the subject of Corn-laws, yet he did not complain of the hon. Gentleman for taking that course; because, after the division which would take place upon his motion, the question would be decided, not as to whether the House was in favour of a total repeal of the Corn-laws, or whether it was in favour of a fixed duty in preference to the present graduated scale, but whether the House of Commons was prepared to sanction any alteration at all in those laws. It was because he was opposed to any alteration whatever in the present system, because he considered that that system had been conducive to the benefit of the community at large more than any other measure he had yet heard proposed, either in or out of that House, and believing as he did, that it afforded in time of scarcity a fair protection to the consumer, and in time of plenty a remunerating price to the farmer, that he resisted the motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. He had said that he did not complain of the course taken by the hon. Member; but he did complain, and he thought the agriculturists throughout the country would complain of the conduct Her Majesty's Ministers had pursued in reference to this subject. They had heard only a short time ago from the organ of the Government in that House, the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that ever since the formation of Lord Grey's Government the Corn-law
 464 465 466 * l. l l. l. l. l. l., l., * 467 468 "The following statement shows the probable profit upon a farm of ordinary land., upon the four-field system of husbandry,
 469 s. s. s. s. 
 
 Expense of producing, and value of produce, upon four acres of arable land upon the four-field system. 
 TURNIPS £. s. d. 
 Ploughing four times, 7 s. 1 8 0 
 Harrowing, do, 9 d, 0 3 0 
 Bones, twelve bushels, 2 s. d. 1 11 6 
 Leading same, seven miles 0 2 6 
 Ashes, burning, riddling, &c. 0 5 0 
 Seed, 31b. at 8 d. 0 2 0 
 Drilling 0 2 9 
 Manure, leading, five loads 0 7 6 
 Hoeing 0 4 6 
 Rent 1 1 0 
 Tithe 0 5 0 
 Poor, church, highways 0 4 0 
 Repairs, insurance, fences, draining, gates, tenting, moleing, interest, &c, 0 8 0 
 Total expense 6 4 9 
 Net value of crop 2 10 0 
 CLOVER. £.   s. d. 
 Seed, clover, 141b. 8 s. 0 8 0 
 Ray and other grasses 0 3 0 
 Sowing 0 0  3 
 Rolling and harrowing 0 1  3 
 Rent 1 1 0 
 Tithe 0 5 0 
 Parochial rates 0 4 0 
 Repairs, insurance, fences, gates, draining, tenting, moleing, interest, &c. 0 8 0 
 Total expense 2 10 6 
 Net value of clover 2 10 0 470 
 
 BARLEY. £. s. d. 
 Ploughing once 0 8 0 
 Harrowing three times, 9 d. 0 2  3 
 Seed, four bushels, 3 s. d. 0 15 0 
 Drilling 0 2 6 
 Weeding 0 1 0 
 Cutting or reaping 0 6 0 
 Carting and stacking 0 5 0 
 Thatching 0 1 0 
 Thrashing 4 qrs. 42 b. at l s. d. 0 6 9 
 Dressing do. at 8 d. 0 3 0 
 Delivering do, at 1 s. d. 0 6 0 
 Rent 1 1 0 
 Tithe 0 8 0 
 Parochial rates 0 4 0 
 Repairs, insurance, fences, gates, draining, tenting, moleing, interest, &c. 0 8 0 
 Total expense 4 17 6 
 Four qrs. four bushels barley, at 30 s. 6 15 0 
 
 WHEAT. £. s. d. 
 Ploughing once 0 8 0 
 Harrowing four times, at 9 d. 0 3 0 
 Seed, three bushels, at 7 s. 1 1 0 
 Drilling 0 2 0 
 Rolling 0 0 6 
 Weeding 0 0 6 
 Cutting and reaping 0 7 0 
 Carting and stacking 0 5 0 
 Thatching 0 1 0 
 Thrashing three qrs. at 3 s. 0 9 0 
 Dressing do., at 8 d. 0 2 0 
 Delivering do., at 1 s. d. 0 4 6 
 Rent 1 1 0 
 Tithe 0 10 0 
 Parochial rates 0 4 0 
 Repairs, insurance, fences, gates, draining, tenting, moleing, interest, &c. 0 8 0 
 Total expense 5 7  3 
 Three qrs. wheat, at 56 s. 8 8 0 
 
 EXPENSES £. s. d. 
 Turnip crop 6 4 9 £19 0 s. d. s. £0 5 s. d. 
 Barley 4 17 6 
 Seeds 2 10 6 
 Wheat 5 7  3 
 VALUE OF PRODUCE. 
 Turnips 2 10 0 £20 3 s. d. s. d. 
 Barley 6 15 0 
 Seeds 2 10 0 
 Wheat 8 8 0 s. d. l. s. 471 s. s. s. 472 473 s. s., s. 474 "Finem anima— Non gladii non saxa dabunt nec tela." s. s. l. s. d. l. s. d. 475 l. s. d. l. s. l. s. l. s. d. l. s.
 Mr. Clay  said, the interest he took in the question before the House was so well known, that it would scarcely be expected he should give a silent vote. It would not, however, be necessary for him to0 trespass at much length on the attention of the House. When, two years ago he brought forward a similar motion, he had the opportunity of stating fully his opinions on the policy of the Corn-laws Those opinions remained on record; and not gelling that he could add much tom the general
 506 507 primâ facie 508 509 s., s., s., 510 511 512 513 514 s., s. s. s. 515 516 517 "Vos sed non vobis," 518 s. s. s. d., s. d. 519
 Sir W. Molesworth  rose and said—Sir, I trust the House will pardon my trespassing upon their patience in consideration of the great interests I represent, and of the anxiety felt by my constituents on this subject. I am convinced, that I give utterance to their sentiments as well as to my own feelings, when I declare that, in supporting and in voting for the motion of my hon. Friend, I do not merely seek the abrogation of all restrictions on the importation of food, but that I have in view the far more important object of establishing the principles of free trade in this country. That is my object. I acknowledge the evils of a Corn Law; I desire its repeal on account of its injurious effects; but, above all, I wish it abolished because it is the chief barrier to free trade; and if that barrier were removed, then the most powerful classes in this country, namely, those who possess and cultivate the land, would at once perceive how deeply their immediate interests are concerned in the removal of all other commercial restrictions. I desire freedom of trade on account of two very different classes of benefits—the one of an economical kind, affecting the production and distribution of wealth; the other of a moral and social kind, affecting the relations between members of this community, and the, relations of this country with the nations of the globe. The economical advantages of free trade can best be shown by tracing the mischievous consequences of a contrary course of policy. With this object in view, I must refer to certain facts, alluded to by those highly intelligent and respectable petitioners, who lately sought permission to give evidence at the bar. I sin-
 442 l. l. 443 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., * * 444 
 
 Average of the Years 1815–16–17–18. Average of the Years 1825–26–27–28. Average of the Years 1835–36–37–38. Increase per Cent. on the Averages 
 from 1818 to 1838. from 1828 to 1838. 
 Value of Exports of Cotton Goods £15,754,000 £13,373,931 £16,318,514 3½ 22 
 Value of Exports of Cotton Yarn 2,293,000 3,459,000 6,553,000 185 90 
 Value of Exports of Hardwares and Cutlery 1,663,661 1,334,679 1,768,000 6 1–3 32 
 Value of Exports of Iron and Steel 1,009,217 1,123,189 2,132,000 93 89 
 Decrease. 
 Value of Exports of Woollen Goods 8,122,415 5,366,000 6,232,000 24 16 
 Value of Exports of Woollen Yarn 32,853 341,634 939 
 Value of Exports of Wool 26,520 334,429 1,161 
 Increase. 
 Value of Exports of Linens 1,751,000 1,983,000 2,841,000 62 42 
 Value of Exports of Linen Yarn 417,603 445 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 446 * * 447 
 
 Average of the Years 1815–16–17–18. Average of the Years 1825–26–27–28. Average of the Years 1834–35–36–37. Increase per Cent. on the Averages Fall in Price per Cent. 
 from 1818 to 1887. from 1837 to 1837 from 1818 to 1837. from 1828 to 1837. 
 Quantity of Exports of Cotton Goods yards 230,223,000 333,084,000 570,565,000 147 71 59 31 
 Cotton Yarn lbs 13,110,000 42,553,000 87,834,000 569 105 61 15 
 Hardwares cwts. 243,820 225,740 354,575 45 57 28 18 
 Iron and Steel tons 60,982 81,930 185,453 208 128 46 29 
 Woollen Goods pieces 1,445,414 1,758,912 1,988,681 45 11 rise of 
 decrease 48 3 6–10 
 Woollwn Goods yards 8,770,817 6,505,605 7,436,626 16 14 
 fall 
 Woollen Yarn lbs. 225,086 2,316,761 929 14 
 rise 
 Wool lbs. 550,830 3,377,901 514 69 
 increase fall 
 Linen Goods yards 32,019,000 51,852,000 71,581,000 122 38 11 1–10 
 Linen Yarn lbs. 4,273,000 448 449 450 451 452 453 454 455 456 457 458 459 "No, no!" 460 461 462 463
 Viscount Howick * * 525 526 s. s. 527 "I know it has been stated that prices have fluctuated between 52 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. d., s. s. s. d., s. d. 528 "The committee of 1821 expressed a hope 'that the great body of the occupiers of the soil, either from the savings of more prosperous times, or from the credit which punctuality commands in this country, possess resources which will enable them to surmount the difficulties under which they now labour.' Your committee, with deep regret, are bound rather to express a fear that the difficulties alone remain unchanged, but that the savings are either gone or greatly diminished, the credit failing, and the resources being generally exhausted; and this opinion is formed, not on the evidence of rent-payers, but of many most respectable witnesses, as well owners of land, as surveyors and land agents." 529 530 531 532 533 534 535 l. 536 s. s., s., l., 537 l., l. s. l. 538 l. l., l. s. d. s. s. 539 s. l. l, l. 540 541 542 s. s., s. s. 543 "11453. What are the advantages you contemplate from a fixed duty, which a shifting scale does not afford? I think that one of the practical inconveniences of the present system, is, that the attention of the trader in corn is directed more to the foreign trade in corn than to the home trade in corn. In the case of the foreign trade, there are two contingencies to calculate on; the decrease of duty, and the increase of price. In the case of home produce, the trader only calculates upon the contingency of the increase of price. Therefore, there appears to be a greater inducement to invest capital in the foreign than in the home produce; and I think that experience has shewn it to be so, since the operation of the law. And I conceive this practical inconvenience may be the result. When a farmer is threshing out to supply a present necessity, there is no capital between him and the consumer; whereas, if the capital of the trader in corn was more directed to the home produce, the farmer, at such a period, would be relieved. "11454. The result of your experience, leads you to think that the speculators in corn, under the present law, speculate entirely in foreign corn, and not in home-grown corn?—Not entirely, but certainly more, comparatively, in foreign than in home-grown corn. "11455. Have you observed the effect that has been produced on stocks in hand at harvest, either in the hands of the farmer, in his granary and stack-yard, or the miller and jobber; are the stocks as large as they used
 544 "11456. In average years, the farmers in Lothian have as much wheat on hand in harvest as they used to have?—No, I do not think the farmers have the same stock in general at harvest that they used to have. "11457. Has it diminished materially?—It has diminished to a considerable extent." 545 546 547 s. s. s. s., s. s. s., s. s., s., s. 548 549 s. s. 550 551 "9667. Amongst the farmers that are made insolvent, are there many of industrious and prudent habits?—Yes. "9668. Men that had at the outset a capital adequate to the cultivation of their farms?—Quite equal to it. "9669. Is that class very numerous?—Yes, that class is numerous who had a property quite equal to the capital required upon their farms, but now their capital is diminished, and, in many cases, gone. "9670. Do you think those men, in taking their farms, acted with the average prudence, or were there instances of improvidence in taking farms?—The value of a farm has been very difficult to ascertain, both as regards the land and the produce; because the prices of produce have been so fluctuating, that no man could value land accurately. "9671. It is hardly possible for a man to judge at what price he would be safe at taking land?—No. "9673. Has the farming of land been a kind of lottery lately?—Yes. "9674. Was it the custom at former periods for farming to be a dangerous trade?—No. "9675. Was it considered as being a safe pursuit?—Yes. "9692. Do the farmers generally keep as great a stock of grain as they did formerly?—No. "9693. Is that visible in their yards and in their barns?—Yes. "9694. To a considerable extent?—Yes, to a very considerable extent it is visible." 552 553 554 d. d. d., d. d. d. d. d d., d. d., d. d 555 "12701. There is an immense quantity of land on the continent that might be appropriated to the growth of rape seed. Rape seed is now bearing a good price in England; I suppose from 60 s. s. s. 556 557 558 559 560 561
 Mr. O'Connell  would ask a question of great importance of the hon. Gentleman, the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies. According to the accounts which had been received in this country there had been thirty-four persons hanged in Upper and Lower Canada, and he wished to know whether the Government had received any information upon this point, and next, whether it was their intention to take any steps to put a stop to these executions?
 Sir Hussey Vivian  having presented several petitions from his constituents
 634 635 l. l. 636
 Lord Worsley  said, that when he considered that this was the third night of the present debate, he thought, that he should not shew due respect to the House if he detained it for a long time, not only because he could not presume to offer much that was valuable, but because, also, although they had had two days' debate, if he detained the House for any lengthened period, he would run the chance of protracting the debate to another night. There were, however, some parts of the
 629 630
 Lord John Russell  spoke to the following effect: During the many years that I have had the honour of holding a seat in this House, and frequently as I have heard the question of the Corn laws discussed, I do not think that it has ever happened to me that I have addressed the House, upon that subject, preferring to listen to others, whom I thought more competent to address the House upon the subject than I am, and to instruct it by the examination they had made into the various details, as well as the great principles which the question involved, than to attempt to take a part in those debates myself. I therefore enter with great diffidence on the consideration of this subject, but at the same time I feel that upon this question I cannot agree with either of the two parties who take extreme views upon it. When Mr. Canning spoke in 1827, be said that extreme views were enter-
 696 697 "Oh, oh!" 698 s. s. s. s. s., s. 699 700 701 702 703 704 s. s., s. d., s., d. s. d. s. 705 706 707 J. Graham: hon. Member: 708 709
 Mr. Labouchere  regretted, that they had received no information at the Colonial-office with regard to the accounts which had appeared in the newspapers of several persons having been executed in Upper and Lower Canada, in addition to the communications which had already been stated to the House. By some circumstances, for which he could not account; the Great Western had not brought any dispatches from the Governor of Upper or Lower Canada. The Government, there-
 628
 The Speaker  called upon Mr. Mines.
 The Speaker : While such disorder is allowed to continue, it is utterly impossible to gather the sense of the House as to its future proceedings. Any such attempt to terminate such a debate as that in which the House has been engaged, can reflect nothing but discredit on the House.
 Mr. E. Tennent  said, that as one of the representatives for that part of the kingdom which would be most materially affected by any alteration in the present system of Corn-laws, he felt himself called upon to make a few observations, which, as the debate had hitherto been carried on entirely in reference to England, he would confine to the peculiar case and condition of Ireland. The obvious and inevitable effect of the abolition of the protection against foreign grain, indeed that which was proposed and anticipated, was to diminish the receipts of the farmer and the landed proprietor. However unsuitable the condition of the agricultural interests of England might be to encounter such a reduction, it was impossible to regard its effects on the agriculture of Ireland other wire than with anticipations of
 637 l. l. 638 639 l. Dictionary of Commerce, "Previously to 1806, when a perfectly free corn trade was for the first time established between Great Britain and Ireland, the yearly imports into England did not amount to 400,000 quarters; whereas they now (1832) amount to 2,400,000. Any one who has ever been in Ireland, or is aware of the wretched state of agriculture there, and of the amazing fertility of the soil, must be satisfied, that a very slight improvement would occasion an extraordinary increase in the imports from that country! and it is believed by those best qua-
 640 s.
 Mr. Hume  moved for Returns of the number of persons who have visited the National Gallery in each month, from September 1835 to January 1839: also the amount of salary and perquisites, if any, received by each person employed, and the principle items of miscellaneous expenses under separate heads, in each of the two past years; also the average number of students who have attended on days of study:—Of the amount of money received for admission, and of the number of persons who visited the exhibition of the royal Acdemy of
 710
 Mr. Hume  said, that the hon. Baronet need not be uneasy, since the returns, which he required, were only in continuation of those which the President of the Royal Academy, Sir Martin Shee, had himself delivered to the committee on the arts two or three years ago.
 Mr. Milnes  then proceeded to address the House for some time; but in consequence of the noise, hardly a sentence could be heard. He expressed himself strongly against the motion.
 Mr. Milnes  proceeded to address the House, but he could not be heard on account of the noise.
 Sir Henry Parnell  said, the hon. Member for Belfast had certainly made a very able and satisfactory statement concerning the great progress of improvement in Ireland; but he was at a loss to discover how it was applicable to the present question, for that improvement was not owing to the Corn-laws, but to various other circumstances. With respect to the repeal of these laws, the Irish landlords had less reason to entertain any apprehensions than the landlords of England; because, as Ireland was opposite the port of Liverpool, from which the great manufacturing districts derived their supply of corn, the charge of freight from Ireland would be less than from the Baltic to Liverpool by at least 5 s. s. s. 648 l. s. l. l. s. l. s. l. s. s. s. 649 Commercial Dictionary s. d. s. d.. d. s. s. d. s. s. s. s s. s. 650 d. 651 s., s. s. l., l. l. 652 s. l. 653 654 l. s.
 Mr. Ward  said, that he differed from the noble Lord as to the finality of the Legislature on this subject as well as on almost all the other topics that he had touched upon in the course of his speech. He doubted whether the prevalence of the opinions put forward by the noble Lord, would give any satisfaction to the country. On the contrary, he was impressed with the opinion that the speech of the noble Lord, as well as those of other supporters of the Corn-laws, would go far to convince the country that the subject was under trial before a packed jury in that House, and that they were only giving foregone conclusions on this subject, and that there was very little hope that it would meet with a fair consideration at their bands. He did not believe that any person in that House connected with the commerce or manufactures of the country, would agree with the noble Lord as to the state of prosperity which he alleged it to be in. He was ready to confess that his own opinion on the corn question, had undergone a great change, and that change had been the result of deliberate conviction slowly formed. When he first came into Parliament, he voted in 1833, with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Pembroke, (Sir J. Graham) on this subject, under the impression that the landed interest was entitled to protection, as they were liable to peeculiar burdens pressing on them. Since that time he had turned his attention to the subject, and had gone with great care into its consideration. He was deeply interested in the welfare of the land, and he had fully considered how it would be affected by a change in the law. He, in the first place, asked himself what it was that caused the broad and obvious distinction that prevailed between the landed interest in this country and the Continent. The result of his examination was the conviction that the high rent in England did not arise from having the monopoly of the home market, but was the result of foreign trade. It was not the mere cultivation of the broad lands of England that led to this result, but it resulted from the
 657 s. d. s. s. s. 658 s., 659 "The final and most triumphant result in contrasting our present illimited liberty of commerce with the restrictive policy which preceded it, may be seen in undeniable facts. The population augmented—the produce of coin increased three and a-half millions of staja (equal to 337,600 quarters)—the export trade in agricultural produce increased 116,670 l. hocus pocus, 660 "For both!" s. s. s., s. s. 661 s. d., 662 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s., 663 664 s. s. d. s. s. s. s., s. d. 665 s. 666 667 "The effect of these reductions upon the comforts of the weavers had become such as to render their privations intolerable. A young fellow often fancied that he could appear much more respectable than most married people whom he saw around him; but the appearance of a child or two soon undeceived him, and he is found presently in the same miserable condition as most others who, similarly situated in life, had entered the married state—a condition from which all his exertions were inadequate to relieve him till his children were grown sufficiently large to be able to assist in their maintenance. Having been confined to the paltry pittance which his best exertions affords, the casualties of life were wholly unprovided for, and a change of work, a bad kind of work, or a little sickness, destroyed all his credit; and if without friends, in these emergencies, a state of horrid privation commences. He is found frequently toiling an entire day without food; journeying home with a piece of cloth which he hath just finished—if living in the country, a distance of three, four, or five miles, with a pair of clogs on his feet, and clothing in which he is ashamed to appear, for which piece of cloth only 4 s. s. 668 "What is the constitution to them (the people but bread to eat? Fancy five millions of gaunt figures a starting up to ask their
 669 This rights mights regime
 Sir James Graham  said, that it was because he did not believe that the proposal was founded on a principle, either just, necessary, or true, that he could not give it his assent. He could not advocate any measure which, in his conscience and judgment, he did not believe conducive to the general interest of the whole community. He was hound to say, that he approached this subject with the greatest reluctance. He was not disposed to treat it on the narrow grounds on which some hon. Gentlemen attempted to put it, as if it were only a landlord's question. On the contrary, when he considered that it was of so large and extensive a nature, branching into such various ramifications, and bearing on so many of the springs of national industry, he became painfully
 670 671 672 673 "A mighty maze, but  all 674 675 s. 676 677 678 679 680 * * 681 * s., s., * 682 "A very considerable fall—as much as four or five shillings per quarter—has taken place at Mark-lane in the prices of wheat, which is attributed to the large importations of
 683 684 685 l., l., l., l., l., l. l., l. l., l. l., l. pro tanto 686 s. 687 688 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 689 690 s. d., s. d., s. d. "In the 'American Almanack' there is a table, said to be carefully compiled from authentic data, of the prices of flour for the first three months in every year from 1796 to 1837, both inclusive. Taking the January quotations, they stand thus:—
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that he had not opposed the production of the Returns last moved for, since the School of Design was supported entirely by grants from this House: but the case was different in respect to the Royal Academy. And he wished to know the grounds on which the hon. Member desired to ascertain the mode in which the Royal Academy expended their own funds?
 Viscount Maidstone  protested against the pertinacity with which the opponents of the Corn-laws persisted in agitating the country on that subject. He hoped that if any hon. Member had any thing to say against the Corn-laws, he would say it then, in order that the next time that this question was mooted, it might be met with a silent negative. He fancied, that this question had been settled last session: for if a majority of 200 against the repeal of these laws was not a sufficient settlement of it, he was at a loss to conceive what would be considered sufficient. He was glad to find that this question had been discussed in that House in a calm spirit of philosophy; for out of doors it had been treated very differently. There the Corn-laws had been denounced as a bread-tax—as a code intended to starve the poor
 655 "No,no!" 656
 Colonel Wood  said, the debate had been protracted to such an extraordinary length, that he would not have ventured to obtrude himself on the notice of the House for the mere purpose of answering the observations of his hon. Friend, if he might be permitted so to call the hon. Member for Kilkenny; but the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, and the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, in his three hours' speech, had cast so many taunts upon the country Gentlemen on his side of the House, that he must request the indulgence of the House whilst he stated his reasons for thinking, not only that the present law was defensible, but also that it was the very best which could be possibly produced. They had
 732 s. s. s. s. s. s s. s. 733 T. Attwood. 734
 Mr. Hobhouse  felt himself bound to make a few observations on what he considered to be a most unjust attack of the hon. Member who had just spoken and of others upon those persons by whom he was supported; and if the hon. Member wished to be sure of the truth of what he now stated, he would refer him to the statement recently made by the noble Lord, the other Member for Lincolnshire, at a public meeting of that county. That noble Lord had stated, that this opposition to the Corn-laws was not got up by those who wished to benefit the working classes, but by mere popularity hunters. [ "Hear, hear!" 744 "Laughter." Thoughts and Details on Scarcity 745 746 s. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s. 747 vice versa 748 749
 Lord John Russell  said, that he certainly did hope that the House would be able to come to a decision upon this question to night; and he really knew not why the debate should not continue, if the House would only listen with patience to those hon. Members who might wish to address any observations to their consideration. At all events, he must say, without reference to this question in particular, that the postponing the debate to Monday would be of the greatest possible inconvenience to the public service, and he could not possibly consent to such a course in the present state of the votes of the House. Seeing, therefore, no difficulty in proceeding with the debate this evening, and that the hour was not too late to admit of that being done, and also that the subject had already been debated during four nights, he hoped that the House would not consent to another adjournment.
 Lord John Russell  thought that the House was ready to come to a decision that night. They had already discussed the subject for four nights, and if hon. Members were anxious to address the House, he had no doubt but that it would listen attentively to their observations. He hoped, however, that the House would agree to come to a decision that night.
 Mr. Handley  repudiated on the part of those whom he represented, the charges that had been made against them, of ignorance anti self-interest, by those who, he did not see on what grounds, arrogated to themselves exclusive intelligence on this and other questions. The conduct of some of the manufacturers had been watched, and the miserable expedient of closing the mills and working at short hours was seen in its true light by the operatives, who now perceived that it was not their comfort or advantage which were aimed at, but the profits and interests of the manufacturers themselves, who would
 * 741 s. s. d. d. minimum 742 Price Current. s. s. s. d. d. 743
 Mr. Fielden  was understood to say, that by the regulations of the House, any Member had a right to express his opinions upon any particular subject under discussion, and he had not hitherto had an opportunity of addressing the House. It was said, that the adjournment to Monday would interrupt the course of public business, but he knew no other question so important for the country as that now before the House, and he thought that the proper settlement of it would be of the greatest importance for the prosperity and happiness, or the misery of the country. Therefore it was that he proposed that the debate should be adjourned; but, at the same time, if it would be more convenient for the noble Lord, he would postpone the day of its coming under consideration to Tuesday. He thought the debate ought to be adjourned, and he would divide the House upon the question.
 Mr. Fielden  moved, that the debate be adjourned to Wednesday next.
 Mr Fielden  moved the adjournment of the Debate to Monday.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, amidst much clamour for a division or an adjournment, that as only one member from the manu-
 782 * l. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. l. s. d. d. d. s. d. s. d. d. d. s. d. s. d. s. * 783 d. l. d. l. l. l. s. d. s. s.
 Mr. Hume  said, that although this was the fourth day of the present debate, he thought that too much time had not been occupied in the discussion of a question so important to the national interests. Among the questions which had long occupied his attention since he had been a Member of that House, that of a free trade in corn had been very prominent; and he had advocated not only a free trade in corn, but a free trade in every article of consumption. He had also advocated a reduction in the expenses of the country, corresponding with the natural change which took place at the conclusion of the war, and he had urged upon the House a return to the wholesome system which prevailed before the French war; and he had done this that the people might reap all the benefit of a return from a state of war to a state of peace. But the House had looked upon the question in a different point of view, and they had taken a different course and they had taken the most fatal step of all by passing the Corn-laws in 1815. If they had adopted that course which wisdom and policy pointed out, the landed proprietors. whose property had increased in value during the war, and whose rents had risen nearly double in amount, would have pursued a very different course. During the war, the profits of trade had been enormous, and the means of purchasing food had been doubled and trebled in price. In many cases, money was plentiful, and all persons seemed in prosperity. The only party that suffered was the public as a body, who were charged with the enormous debt. The Corn-laws had passed to limit the amount of food, and therefore it was that he always objected to them. What had been the result of the
 716 717 s. 718 "This system is certainly liable to sudden alterations of which the effect must be at one time to reduce prices already low, lower than they would probably have been under a state of free trade, and at another, unnecessarily to enhance prices already high, to aggravate the evils of scarcity, and to render more severe the depression of prices from abundance. On the one hand it deceives the grower with a false hope of a monopoly, and, by its occasional interruption, may lead to consequences which deprive him of the benefits of that monopoly when most wanted; on the other hand, it holds out to the country the prospect of an occasional free trade, but so regulated and desultory as to baffle the calculations and unsettle the transactions both of the grower and the dealer at home; to deprive the consumer of most of the benefits of such a trade and to involve the merchant in more than the ordinary risks of mercantile speculation. It exposes the markets of the country either to be occasionally overwhelmed with an inundation of foreign corn altogether disproportionate to its wants; or, in the event of any considerable deficiency in our own harvest, it creates a sudden competition on the continent, by the effect of which the prices are rapidly and unnecessarily raised against ourselves. But the inconvenient operation of the present Corn-law, which appears to be less the consequence of the quantity of foreign grain brought into this country, upon an average of years, than of the manner in which that grain is introduced, is not confined to great fluctuations in price, and consequent embarrassment both to the grower and consumer; for the occasional prohibition of import has also a direct tendency to contract the extent of our commercial dealings with other states, and to excite in the rulers of those states a spirit of permanent exclusion against the productions or manufactures of this country and its colonies." "When your committee," they said, "find, for instance, in the seventeen months which passed between January, 1816, and June, 1817, the price of wheat varying from 53 s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. s. 719 s. d. s. d. 720 "In every country," said Adam Smith "it always is, and must be, the interest of the great body of the people to buy whatever they want of those who sell it cheapest. The proposition is so very manifest, that it seems ridiculous to take any pains to prove it; nor could it ever have been called in question had not the interested sophistry of merchants and manufacturers, confounded the common sense of mankind. Their interest, is in this respect, directly opposite to that of the great body of the people." 721 "Nowhere in France is corn more carefully cultivated than in the wine provinces. The numerous hands employed in the one species of cultivation necessarily encourage the other, by affording a ready market for its produce. To diminish the number of those capable of paying for it is surely a most unpromising expedient for encouraging the cultivation of corn. It is like the policy which would promote agriculture by discouraging manufactures." "It is not more than fifty years ago, that some of the counties in the neighbourhood of London had petitioned Parliament against the extension of turnpike roads into the remoter counties. Those remoter counties, they pretended, from the cheapness of labour, would be able to sell their grass and corn cheaper in the London market than themselves, and would thereby ruin their cultivation. Their rents, however, have risen, and their cultivation has been improved since that time." 722 "That this meeting, whilst it demands of the Legislature as an act of justice, the total and immediate repeal of all laws imposing duties upon, or restricting the importation of corn, and other articles of subsistence, is prepared to resign all claim to protection on home manufactures, and to carry out, in their fullest extent, both as affects agriculture and manufactures, the true and peaceful principles of free trade, by removing all existing obstacles to the unrestricted interchange of industry and capital between all nations." "The principal means by which the fund for the maintenance of labourers can be increased, is by increasing the productiveness of labour. And this may be done, first, by allowing every man to exert himself in the way, which, from experience, he finds most beneficial, by freeing industry from the mass of restrictions, prohibitions, and protecting duties, with which the Legislature, sometimes in well-meaning ignorance, sometimes in pity, and sometimes in national jealousy, has laboured to crush or misdirect her efforts." 723 724 "Oh, oh!" 725 726 l. l. l. s. s. 727 Laughter. s. 728 s. d. s. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. d. 729 "He strongly combated the opinion of the landed interest being unduly protected, maintaining, that the direct taxes paid by the landed proprietors in France amounted to 400,000,000 francs, or one-fourth of their net income, independent of their proportion of indirect taxes. In Belgium, the direct taxes were, in the same year, 32,500,000 francs, of which 21,631,614 were taxes on land, amount-
 730 "What is the counteracting circumstance which takes from the operative classes of England the power of obtaining an increase of wages, within the limits of the great superiority in the efficacy of their labour, arising from the extraordinary advantages, natural and acquired, which they possess? This circumstance is the high price of food; and the cause of the high price of food is the existing Corn-laws. So long as the existing Corn-laws remain, so long will it be found impracticable either to diminish the hours of labour or to increase wages, and so long will every attempt to do either, inflict additional privation upon the working classes, by narrowing the foreign market and contracting trade. No measures for increasing the reward of labour can be successful until the Corn-laws have been first abolished. Were food as cheap in England
 731
 Mr. Ewart  moved that the debate be adjourned to Monday.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  rose amidst the greatest confusion, and was not heard for several minutes. He said, that although he was not one of those who desired that
 786
 Mr. M. Philips  commenced by saying, that a noble Earl (the Earl of Darlington), who had addressed the House on Wednesday evening, had thrown out, as was reported, a most serious charge against a portion of his (Mr. M. Philips's) constituents, for he was reported to have said—"It appeared to him that the Chamber of Commerce of Manchester had resorted to most unjustifiable means for getting up an agitation on this question. They had endeavoured to foment discontent in every part of the country, and had almost gone to the extent of seeking to arouse the populace to arms." Now, on the part of the Chamber of Commerce of Manchester he must give the most unqualified denial to this statement; and he had no doubt that the noble Lord, whose absence he regretted, would be ready to retract or explain the words. He had no doubt of this, since nothing could be further from the fact than such an assertion. In adverting to the various arguments which
 735 l. 736 737 738 s. d. s. s. d. 739 "They were still populous, and had once been extremely opulent and powerful as a manufacturing nation; nor let hon. Gentlemen ever forget that, from that opulence and power they had declined absolutely from levying enormous duties upon the corn consumed by their subjects. The same fate, resulting from the same cause, as irresistibly awaited this country, as one day succeeded another. As to the talk about high prices, the danger of our present system arose, not from positive, but from relative, prices. He owned he was amazed at the course which so many Gentlemen had pursued upon this question. How was it possible that any man, having the powers of reasoning or reflection, could come down to that House day after day and talk about protection to corn—protection to wool—protection to oak hark—the difference meanwhile in the price of bread between Great Britain and the natives of the continent being as the difference in favour of the latter
 740 s. s. l l. *
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, as this is the fourth night of the debate upon the Corn-laws; and as I do not intend to avail myself of those daily discussions upon collateral topics, with which we have been threatened by the hon. Gentleman, (the menace of which is infinitely more formidable to me than that of the physical force to which he has alluded), I desire to take advantage of this opportunity to express my opinions upon this subject. The hon. Gentleman, in the conclusion of his observations, deprecated unanimity upon this side of the House. He exhorted us not to exhibit to an admiring country, so extraordinary a
 750 751 752 l. "True, the general amount of exports has increased, but the increase has taken place in respect to those articles which most nearly approach the raw material itself, for the production of which the least degree of manual skill and labour is required, and which constitute the elements of foreign manufactures, competing with, and injuring our own. The very increase, therefore, so far from being an indication of prosperity, is a sign of decay." 753 s. d. s. d. 
 
 1837. 1838. 
 £36,228,468. £43,338,839 
 
 Year. Declared value 
 £. 
 In Woollen-yarn the export in 1837 was 333,098 
 In Woollen-yarn the export in 1838 365,657 
 In Cotton-yarn in 1837 6,965,942 
 In Cotton-yarn in 1838 7,430,582 
 In Linen-yarn in 1837 479,000 
 in Linen-yarn in 1838 655,000 
 
 But then the increase in Woollen manufactures, other than Yarn was from 
 4,660,000 l. in 1837, to 
 5,792,000 l. in 1838. 
 In cotton manufactures from 
 13,640,000 l. in 1837, to 
 16,700,000 l. in 1838. 
 In Linen manufactures from 
 2,133,000 l. in 1837, to 
 2,919,000 l. in 1838. 
 In Glass there was a decline from 
 477,000 l. in 1837, to 
 376,000 l. in 1838. 
 But in Silk manufactures there was an increase, from 
 503,000 l. in 1837, to 
 778,000 l. in 1838. 
 In Hardware and Cutlery, from 
 1,460,800 l. in 1837, to 
 1,507,000 l. in 1838. 
 In Earthenware, from 
 563,000 l. in 1837, to 
 670,000 l. in 1838. 754 l. l. In the first year there were 18,113 vessels employed in the Foreign trade, of which, 12,252 were British vessels. In the last year, 19,639, of which 12,890 were British. "All this may be true, but it has become necessary in order to maintain the contest for manufacturing superiority with other nations, to make so large a reduction in the price of the exported article, that the home manufacture is carried on with scarcely any profitable return to those engaged in it. Compare the proportion which the declared value of our exports in late years has borne to the quantity, with the proportion which it bore in former years, and you will find that the value is almost stationary, or, perhaps, declining, while the quantity rapidly increased." 755 "In the year 1782, cotton twist, by Sir Arkwright's invention, exceeded the cost of the raw material 20 s. s. d. s. d. Q. "Can you furnish the Committee with a comparison of the cost of labour in producing yarns in England in 1812 and 1830?" A. "I can. I have a statement showing it by the pound; and also the price of a continuous thread a mile long, in 1812 and 1830: 
 
 Price of cotton Price of labour. 
 1812 1830 1812 1830 
 2 s. 10 d. 1 s. d. 1 s. d. 
 
 In 1812 3 s. d. 
 In 1830 1 s. d. "Is it then a matter of surprise that the selling price of a manufactured article should be reduced, when there is a reduction of one hundred per cent. in the price of the raw material, and when by the wonderful contrivances of mechanical ingenuity, the same manufactured article which in 1782 cost in labour twenty shillings the pound, in 1812 cost eighteen pence? "It may be said, that there was a difference in the price of labour between 1812 and 1830?—There was not—the price of labour in Mr. Kennedy's calculations, for the two periods, is the same." "In 1812 and 1830 the wages of labour are estimated at twenty pence per diem for every person employed, including men, women and children. The reduction, therefore, in the cost of labour was not a reduction of wages." 756 "Do not you know that English manufactures at the present instant in India are now selling below the prime cost?" "There is not a market in the world which we do not sometimes overstock, but I always expect good to result from that." 757 758 
 
 During the first four years, namely, the years 1829, 1830, 1831, and 1832, commencing the 20th of November, 1828, and ending the 20th of November, 1832, the number of new accounts opened in the Liverpool Savings' Bank was, according to this statement. 1,300 
 The average number of deposits £55,000 0 0 
 During the last four years, namely, 1835, 1836, 1837, 1838—commencing the 20th of November, 1834, and ending the 20th of November, 1838, the average number of new accounts opened was 2,040 
 The average amount of deposits 80,000 0 0 759 
 
 £ s. d. 
 In the three months of November, December, and January, 1837–8, the amount of deposits in the savings' bank was 12,270 4 6 
 And in the three months of November, December, and January,1838–9, the amount of deposits was 13,211 0 0 
 In the first-named period the amount paid out of the bank was 10,096 0 0 
 And in the latter period the amount of deposits paid out of the bank was 9,392 0 0 l. l. 
 
 In the year ending November 20, 1837, the number of depositors in the Leicester Savings' Bank, whose balances were below 20 l. 794 
 And in the year ending the 20th of November, 1838, the number of depositors under 20 l. 916 
 £. s. d. 
 The amount of the sums deposited in 1837 was 9,843 0 0 
 And in 1838 10,742 0 0 
 The total number of depositors in the first year was 1,682 
 And the number in the last year 1,876 
 
 £. s. d. 
 In Birmingham, during the three months of November, December, and January, 1837–8, the amount received at the Savings' Bank was 12,297 15 4 
 And the amount paid out to depositors by the bank was 9,907 13 2 
 In the three months—November, December, and January, 1838–9, the amount of deposits was 14,870 6 10 
 And the amount paid by the bank to the depositors 8,554 5 4 760 l.2 l. 
 
 In the first year the number of new entrants was 3,711 
 In the second year 4,694 
 In the first year the amount of deposits was £48,193 
 In the second £75,798 l. l. s. d. l. s. d. s. d. 761 l. Right Hon. C. P. Thomson, M. P. Mark Phillips, Esq., M. P. Geo. Wm. Wood, Esq., M. P. Jos. Brotherton, Esq., M. P. "In submitting to the public their twenty-first annual report, the committee feel great pleasure in drawing attention to the gratifying result of their transactions with depositors during the past year. Since their last report, 3,346 new accounts have been opened, 20,453 deposits made, and 109,123 l. s. d. l. s. d. "Notwithstanding this so far most satisfactory progress, the population of Manchester and its neighbourhood affords scope for a much greater extension." 762 763 
 
 s. d. 
 In 1793 wheat was 55 8 per quarter 
 1792 53 0 per quarter 
 1790 56 0 per quarter 
 1789 56 0 per quarter 
 
 s. d. 
 From 1735 to 1745 the average price of wheat according to the Windsor tables was 32 1 
 From 1745 to 1755 31 3 
 From 1755 to 1765 39 4 
 
 s. d. 
 From 1765 to 1775 51 4 
 1775 to 1785 47 9 
 1785 to 1795 54 4 764 765 "Other of our chief articles of import, such as sugar, spices, tobacco, tea, wine, are objects of luxury, rather than of necessity—they are the produce like wise of limited portions of the globe, and those mostly distant from our shores; corn, on the contrary, forming the staple of human subsistence, there is scarcely any limit to the demand—if it were at a price within the reach of the labouring classes, and a great demand for our manufactures and full employment consequently afforded them the means of purchase. How wide too, were the regions, how vast the population, with which a free trade in corn would permit us to maintain a beneficial intercourse! There were few climates in which corn could not be produced, whilst it was almost the only staple which could be offered to us in exchange by countries, the vicinity of which would render commercial intercourse the most beneficial, and with which it was most important to us to
 766 "I have taken some pains to acquaint myself with the prices of foreign corn, and with the quantities which might be obtained at those prices; for these two circumstances ought on no account to be separated in looking at the question of the foreign corn trade," "It will be seen, therefore, that in estimating the probable import price under a free trade, assuming 1,000,000 quarters, at 45 s. 767 s." "What had the agriculturists to fear? When it was considered that wheat was a very bulky article, that but a very small proportion of it, comparatively on an average not more than 250 quarters, could be brought in one vessel; that the range of the exporting countries was very small, he could not understand what the agricultural interest had to apprehend from a change, which, besides, could not be brought into full operation till after a long series of years. Which were the exporting countries? France with a population of thirty millions, and a bad system of agriculture, arising greatly out of a too minute subdivision of land, could never be an exporting country to any considerable extent. Spain, and the other southern countries of Europe, from want of internal communications and other circumstances, could not for a very long period, if at all, export any very large quantity of wheat. From Belgium and Holland we had nothing to fear. Sweden and Norway did not grow sufficient for their own consumption. Coming to Russia and the Baltic, what were the facts? The largest exports from the Baltic in those excellent years, 1802, 1810, and 1818, with the price at Dantzic at 64 s. d. "Corn Corn was cheaper, no doubt, at Odessa; but the amount of conveyance thence would be three times greater than in the other case; for, besides the freight, there would be the probable damage of much corn in the transit, not to mention that, even at Odessa, it was impossible to say what the price would be raised to, when the enormous amount of English demand came into the market there, where the supply was comparatively so limited. Besides, they had no stock, no farming implements, no manures, no well devised plan of cultivation, and a very small population." 768 
 
 In France 40 per cent. 
 In Europe, (exclusive of France 100 per cent. 
 In the United States 160 per cent. 
 In Great Britain 129 per cent. 769 770 "The public, particularly the untravelled part of the public, are hardly aware of the similarity of temperature prevailing through what may be called the corn country of Europe: we mean Great Britain, Ireland, the north of France, the Netherlands, Denmark, the north-west and north-east of Germany, and, in some measure, Poland. All this part is situated between 45 and 55 degrees of latitude, and subject, in a considerable degree, to the prevalence of similar winds." "In 1811 the harvest was deficient throughout the north-west of Europe, from one and the same cause, namely, blight, while that of 1816 was still more generally deficient from rain, and want of warmth." 771 772 
 
 In 1819 1 6 per lb. 
 1820 1 6 per lb. 
 1821 1 6 per lb. 
 1822 1 6 per lb. 
 1823 1 6 per lb. 
 1824 1 6 per lb. 
 Duty on foreign wool, being 6 d. 
 In 1825 1 0 per lb. 
 1826 1 0 per lb. 
 1827 0 9 per lb. 
 1828 0 9 per lb. 
 1829 0 9 per lb. 
 1831 1 3 per lb. 
 1833 2 0 per lb. 
 1837 1 3 per lb. 
 1838 1 10 per lb. d. 773 Villiers Villiers 774 775 776 777 "Two different opinions have been advanced. Dr. Smith contends, that tithes are
 778 "That Adam Smith is fundamentally wrong in stating that corn has a real value which is always equal to the quantity of labour which it can maintain." "That the doctrine of the French economists, as to the degree in which the cost of food influences the value of the manufactured article, is fundamentally erroneous, and cannot, in any possible state, be conformable to fact." "Mr. Ricardo and his followers are quite wrong as to the doctrine of rent. That it is self-evident that Mr. M'Culloch cannot be right, in the opinion that the value of the farmer's capital rises in the same proportion with the value of the raw produce he brings to market. Not content with one refutation, he gives a second of the doctrine of Mr. Malthus, that the labourer is benefited by the high value of the articles composing wages." "Erroneous views of Adam Smith respecting the value of corn. "Erroneous doctrine of the French economists respecting the value of raw produce. "Errors of Mr. Ricardo and his followers on the subject of rent. "Error of Mr. Malthus respecting the nature of rent. "Refutation of the doctrines of Mr. Malthus respecting the wages of labour." 779 "Who wish to substitute the corn of Poland and Russia for our own; who care not for the difference between an agricultural and manufacturing population in all that concerns morals, order, national strength, and national tranquillity; with whom wealth is the only object of speculation, and who have no more sensibility for the sufferings of a people than a general has for the loss of men wearied by his operations." 780 Hume 781
 Sir John Tyrrell  seconded the motion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  objected to the motion, as instructing the Committee to do what it was not in its power to do. A Committee of supply could reduce, but it was inconsistent with parliamentary or constitutional usages for it to increase a vote proposed by the Crown.
 Sir J. T. Tyrrell  thought the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had shown his discretion in proposing that this question should be heard by counsel and witnesses at the bar, because he was quite sure much new light would have been introduced into the question by the professional advisers; whereas it was quite clear that, as it was, very little new light had been introduced into the subject. The hon. Member's proposal went to pass the deepest censure on the Members representing manufacturing districts, as if they had not shown themselves capable of discussing this question without counsel. He called the proposal for a fixed duty a miserable one, because after all that had been stated by the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, who, so far as regarded a fixed duty, must be considered as representing the opinions of the government, that measure had only in the first instance been supported by a solitary petition, and since then by only four other petitions. It was quite clear, after the opinions which had been shown by the hundreds of petitions which had been presented, that no government would be able to maintain anything like a fixed duty in a time of scarcity; it would be a grievous oppression to the commerce of this country if they were to
 812 813 usque ad nauseam.
 Mr. O'Connell.  It is quite clear that there is an almost irresistible temptation to make long speeches on the Corn-laws, and for each speaker to repeat a great deal of what has been said before; and now I promise to the House two things, first, that I shall make but a short speech, and next, that I shall repeat as little of what has been already said as I possibly can. I must, however, refer to one thing which has been said respecting me by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Essex. He said, that in a speech of mine which had been printed I declared, that "Ireland would receive a strong blow from a repeal of the Corn-laws, but that I was content to support it, as it would draw the eye-teeth of the landed aristocracy." I believe that was the statement of the hon. Baronet. It only shows me that the hon. Baronet never read the report; he only read the paragraph in a newspaper; and there is this difference between the paragraph and the report, that the report is accurate, and the paragraph writer has distorted the sentiment I expressed as much as he pleased. I did not at all say, that the repeal of the Corn-laws would be a great blow—I said distinctly the reverse. I said, that I felt something like regret that the repeal of the Corn-laws would not be a disadvantage to Ireland,
 820 cheers. 821 No, no! 822 "On the whole it will be thought, that the above report, furnished by the Roman government, presents a melancholy picture of the manufacturing industry of that part of Italy. Many a town in Great Britain, consisting of only 30,000 souls, produces a greater quantity of manufactured articles than the three million inhabitants of the Pontifical States, notwithstanding the enormous sacrifices made by the Papal government, the protections, the prohibitions, the premiums given for the encouragement of what is called native industry. In Rome, as elsewhere, the measures taken to increase and improve manufacturing produce, have been the main causes of decline and decay. Premiums and protections have only served to reward and to render permanent the most rude and ignorant processes of manufacture; and prohibition, as far as it has succeeded, (and it has succeeded of course in the coarser and cheaper articles, which cannot pay the smugglers' profits)—prohibition has kept away those superior foreign manufactures whose presence would have compelled improvement in the home production. I visited some of the woollen manufactures, being the most important. Scarcely a valuable discovery had been introduced; the spinning in some cases by hand, in others by machinery—far behind the universal progress in England, Belgium, Prussia, or France; the looms, such as were generally employed in the fourteenth century, little better than those used by the Indians of the Deccan; the rowing and card-
 823 "Twenty years of free trade have led to a vast extension of cultivation, a great increase of buildings and inhabitants both in town and country; to the establishment of new manufactories, to an enormous development of the growth of silk (a branch whose total destruction was foretold by the enemies of free trade), a very considerable augmentation in the consumption of both the necessaries and the luxuries of life, with all the enjoyments attached to them—a general rise of wages, and a universal sentiment of growing prosperity. The final and the most triumphant result in contrasting our present illimited liberty of commerce with the restrictive policy which preceded it, may be seen in undeniable facts. Our population is augmented in twenty-five years to the extent of 113,868 souls more than we had in 1766 (it was then 945,063). Our annual produce in corn is increased 3½ millions of staja (=337,600 quarters), the average production being, previously to the changes, 9,827,074, staja; the increase, therefore, is about thirty-four per cent.; our export trade in agricultural produce has increased to the amount of 3½ millions of Tuscan lire=116,670 l. 824 d. d. 825 l. "Look at the surface of England, and then contrast it with the surface of Ireland; in the one country the soil is improved by all the natural processes of agriculture in its produce, and its wealth distributed through countless channels. Its mills and workshops are clustered in every direction; its factories are gathered on the banks of every river, and forests of masts are thickening every port, In the other, the country is scantily cultivated; its plains are yet more fertile, and yet more level; but the hand of industry is not heard on every side, and on the yet more spacious and still more rapid rivers, the easily counted sails drop down to the comparatively deserted harbours." 826
 Mr. W. James,  was anxious to state his views upon this important question, that there might not be any misconstruction put on the course he should take by the large and independent agricultural constituency which he had the honour to represent. He would preface the few remarks he meant to make by saying, that the value of landed property in this country, of which settlements had been made, on which mortgages had been granted, and
 854 s. s. s. s, 855
 Mr. Villiers  then rose to reply. It was his purpose, in bringing forward the motion, to keep as far as possible from dividing those who were of opinion that the Corn-laws were not fitted for the present state of the country. He had received very little encouragement for foregoing his own opinion—he had not introduced his own opinions into the motion, because he wished that all those who wished for a change of the Corn-laws should be enabled to vote with him. He wished that other Members had followed the same course, but throughout he had been met with various propositions, which were only fitted for the committee, and at the very last he was met with an amendment which, if carried, would at once defeat his motion; but as that amendment had not met with a seconder, of course his motion would be that which would be put from the Chair. It was now some years since the question had been fairly discussed; he, therefore, wished to know the grounds upon which the present laws were to be supported; his purpose had, therefore, been in a great measure answered, by the discussion which
 856 857 858 859
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the bill which he wished to introduce was almost of a formal nature, and was brought forward with the consent of the noble Duke to whom it referred, and he had no doubt would meet with the unanimous consent of the House. The object of the bill was of a very simple description. Under the Acts granting certain annuities to Field-marshal the Duke of
 865 l.
 Lord John Russell,  had stated in his former speech that he was in favour of a moderate fixed duty, and he believed that he was right; but having reference to the specific motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, which was one for the House resolving itself into a Committee of the whole House, for the purpose of considering the Act of 9 George 4th, regulating the importation of corn, it was clear that the motion bound neither himself, nor any one who voted for it, to concur in a total repeal. In stating, then, that he was in favour of a moderate fixed duty, he had not felt that under the terms of the present motion it was competent for him to go further; he could do so, but it would take some time, and require the detail of many calculations; and if he had stated any reasons for the amount of duty he would recommend, he should have entered upon a question differing from the proposition which had been made, and would merely have caused a debate relative to any alteration by a total repeal, and to the substitution of a fixed duty. He conceived that the proper place for a discussion of that kind was in a Committee of the House; and if he had now urged it, he would only have interposed a new question between those who were in favour of the present law as it stood, and those who wished to alter it.
 Mr. Hindley  rose amidst loud cries of "question!" and "divide!" After some time he obtained a partial hearing, and was understood to say, he only rose to repel the imputations cast upon the manufacturing classes by the hon. Member for Lincolnshire, and the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, and he was sure, that if those hon. Members were as well acquainted with the manufacturing districts as he was, they would be aware, that there were no grounds for them. As to the House going into committee, he thought that they should at once accede to the proposition which was made, in order that a fixed duty might be deter-
 851
 Mr. C. Wood  said, in pursuance of the arrangement come to at the close of the debate of Friday night, he would now proceed to move certain of the navy estimates that were absolutely necessary for the public service. In order to leave room for discussion on a future occasion, he would leave a portion of the money, and move for the greater part on this occasion. The whole sum required for the navy half-pay, pensions, and allowance due on the 1st of April, was 782,000 l.;
 Mr. Harvey  said, it was in no disparagement of the many able speeches which had been made during this protracted debate: it was in no disparagement of the many able treatises and criticisms on political economy which had been delivered: it was in no disparagement of those powers of memory by which some hon. Members had been able to commit to their recollection entire pamphlets of statistics, that might be purchased at Ridgway's shop for the trifling sum of eighteenpence: it was in no disparagement of all these circumstances, that he was led to say, that at the close of a five nights' discussion, he found and felt this subject to be more confused than it was at its very commencement. There were so many statements which had been assumed as facts, and which were advanced with all the boldness of facts; and there were so many true inferences drawn from them, if the statements were not false, that there was scarcely any position in favour or against those laws—of their being relaxed or made more stringent, which he would venture to say the Gentlemen who spoke in that House had not amply and ably demonstrated. With this impression, therefore, strongly on his mind, and feeling the force of that truth which had been so frequently uttered (and, as they approached the termination of the discussion, more properly urged), that "nothing new could be said on this subject," he should at once shrink from making an appeal to the kindness of the House, if he did not feel, that there was an interest in this country—that there was a great class whose welfare, so far as it depended on this question, had been very slightly and inadequately noticed. It was, however, to him most gratifying, to find that at length the industrious community (the great sources of national power, and the origin of all wealth, whether their hands were directed to the cultivation of the soil, or supplied the moving power in our manufactories) had assumed an appro-
 830 831 l. 832 833 s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. s. d. R. Peel: s. d. s. d. 834 835 836 837 l. 838 l. l., l., hon. Member: 839 840 841 842 843 844 845 s. s., s. d. s. d. s. d. s. 846 847 s. s. d., d. s., s., s.; s., s., s. d.; s., 848 s. d., s. d.; s., s. d., s. d.; s., s. d., s. d. s. s. s. 849 850
 Mr. A. Sanford,  after the conclusion of the speech of the hon. Member for Southwark, in which be entirely concurred, would not make one observation more upon that part of the subject; there was, however, another portion of the debate to which he must allude, on which he felt deeply, and on which he was extremely reluctant to address the House. Much observation had been made on both sides as to the declaration of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department; and when the noble Lord talked of a fixed duty, he wished to ask him. what that duty was intended; not that the noble Lord's answer would have any effect upon his (Mr. Sanford's) vote, as he had fully made up his mind to give a decided negative to the motion; but he was induced to ask the question, because he had given a firm and, he trusted, independent sup-
 853
 Mr. G. W. Wood  would not detain the House with going into any details on the general question, exhausted as it was by the many nights of debate there had been upon it. But there were some statements in the speech of the right hon. Baronet, on Friday, to which he wished to call the attention of the House, and also respectfully to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet. He knew not to what cause he had to attribute it, but on the only two occasions on which he had ventured to address the House that session, he had been honoured on both occasions with the especial notice of the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Baronet had been pleased to compliment him on the honesty of a former speech, which he (Mr. Wood) had made respecting the exports. The right hon. Baronet had stated that his statements were founded on truth; that the documents had been laid on the table, and that the House had substantiated the truth of those statements. He felt especially desirous of guarding himself from being supposed to go along with the right hon. Baronet in what he conceived to be the most unfounded statements. The right hon. Baronet had expressed a hope that Gentlemen on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, would take into their hands a printed document of the Board of Trade. That paper he had now in his hands: and one of the statements alluded to by the right hon. Baronet was the statement of the exports of British produce and manufactures of the united kingdom, being an account of the exports in the year ending the 5th of January, 1839, compared with the exports of the preceding years—they were in fact the exports for the years 1837 and 1838; and from a comparison of these two years the right hon. Baronet had deduced that this country was in a higher state of prosperity
 814 815 l. l. l., l. l., l. l., l., l., l., 816 817
 The Speaker : Who seconds the motion?
 Mr. Benett  said, that, representing a great agricultural county, he considered it was his duty to express his sentiments on the present question. This attack on the Corn-laws had originated with the manufacturers, who, he would maintain, ought naturally to have expected that, under so long a period of peace in Europe, the manufactures of other countries would have increased. It was a hard case that they should now come forward and attack the Corn-laws, which were by no means the cause of any distress they might be suffering. They said nothing about the reduction of wages, which a repeal of these laws would lead to. They stated their object was to raise wages; but they very well knew, and so did the labourers by this time, that their real object was to reduce wages. In short, the whole question was one of wages; for the manufacturers could only compete with foreigners by cheapness, and they could not bring about cheapness without a reduction of wages. Why were we to bolster up an unnatural state of manufactures? The political economists would drive their chariot along, heedless of what they might crush under its wheels. Their sole object was wealth—a thing than which, in his view as a legislator, the comfort of the great mass of our population was of far greater consideration. The great duty of the Legislature was, he contended, to look to the interests of the great mass of the community, and he would not consent to any measure which was inimical to the interests of that mass, which he believed to be the agricultural class. Hon. Members who advocated the repeal of the Corn-
 818 819
 Mr. Dennistoun,  as the representative of one of the largest commercial and manufacturing towns in the empire, craved for a few minutes the indulgence of the House. He had listened with great attention to the speeches which had been delivered on both sides of the question, and especially to the speech of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel), and one more elaborately full of fallacies he had never heard either in or out of that House. He would pass over the part relating to the noble Lord and his colleagues, which they were quite able to answer—he would not notice the references to the political economists, and would touch only upon that which occupied a material portion of the address—the statement that our exports were increasing. Certainly they had increased, and they were increasing, but admitting that this were the fact—admitting that the ocean was covered with our ships, and that there was no nation which our merchants did not reach—yet these were no reasons why the people of this country should be limited to the food produced within our borders. Hon. Members might mystify as much as they would, they might speechify till downs-day, but they could never get over the fact, that they resisted the repeal of these laws for the purpose of raising the rent of the land, and of stinting the people of this country in the quantity of their food when plenty was offered them. One argument had been used which seemed to him to be an extraordinary one, it was said, that if they injured the agriculturists, they would take away the manufacturers best customers, but he would ask, what kind of customers they must be, who first taxed the manufacturers for means to buy of them? If the advocates of the Corn-laws blinded themselves so, that they could not sec this, at least they must admit, that so far from being independent
 852
 Mr. Fielden  said, he should vote for the Committee, but wished previously to state the grounds of his vote. The state of our manufactures was such as rendered it necessary that those engaged in carrying them on should have corn at as low a price as it would fall to, without any protecting law; and that the malt-tax, the hop-tax, and all other taxes and duties on the necessaries of life, consumed by the labouring people, should be repealed, and an equitable assessment on property substituted. He proposed this for the relief of the manufacturers, and to prevent the growers of corn from being placed in a worse position than they would be if the Corn-laws were repealed. He thought every encouragement should be given to agriculture, and that the growth of corn should be increased at home, so as to make us an exporting instead of an importing country, for he was opposed to making this country the workshop of the world, and to the people leaving the land to go into the factories, to an employment not so healthy, more uncertain, and where it is possible, by new inventions in machinery, they could not be long employed. Ten persons could now, in the manufacturing establishment with which he was connected, produce as much clothing as 100 persons could produce forty years ago. This was within his experience, and if he went to a little more remote period the difference would be much greater. He was decidedly opposed to those with whom he should vote who were for having us more dependent on foreigners than we were for a supply of corn. It would be a dangerous position to place ourselves,
 806 807 808 s. d., s., 809 d.,
 Mr. Attwood : I suppose some honest man will second it.
 Mr. T. Attwood  rose and said, that he was convinced, that the present supply of men for the army was insufficient; but he believed, that there was a much greater deficiency in the supply of men for the navy, and it was his intention to take the sense of the House upon the question, whether the House should not recommend the Committee of supply to reconsider the vote of 34,165 men for the navy; for he was convinced, that when the number of boys, artisans, and marines were taken away, the 23,000 men left for the real naval service must be insufficient. When he looked at the state of the Russian navy, and at the state of the navies of France and America, and when he considered the state of our foreign relations generally, he thought the House would agree with him in opinion, that it was fit and proper, that the vote should be rescinded. It was a most serious subject, and in the course of a few months it might be too late to rectify the error which was about to be committed. A very small matter in Persia, or in Canada, or in the
 803 Hume:
 Mr. Attwood  certainly would not wish the motion to be negatived, because out of doors that would look like defeat. He believed that there was scarcely a Member of that House who did not think that the navy ought to be increased. He had no objection to withdraw the motion and bring it on another time.
 Mr. T. Attwood : I do not propose more money; I only propose more men.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien,  did not see, that any advantage would result from the repeal of the Corn-laws, sufficient to counterbalance the sacrifice of the agricultural interest. Looking to the vast extent and fertility of the corn countries, he believed, that any quantity of wheat, that might be required could be imported into Great Britain, at a price ranging from 40 s. s. 810 811 s.
 Sir James Graham,  in continuation of his first question, begged to inquire of the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whether there was any minister or chargé d'affaires at the court of Persia at this time.
 Sir James Graham  desired to ask some questions of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, with regard to our British relations in the East. He desired to know, first, whether Mr. M'Neill, the envoy or chargé d'affaires at the court of Persia, had returned to this country, and whether he had left any person to fill the situation which he had quitted?
 Sir Robert Peel  desired to say a few words in explanation, upon a matter of fact alone, upon which he was sure the hon. Member had unintentionally misrepresented what he had said. The first point was, as to the amount of coal consumed in Glasgow. The hon. Member had stated, that he had said, that the increase in the population of that city, from the year 1812 to 1833, was from 103,000 to 262,000, and that the increase in the quantity of coal consumed, was from 500,000 tons to 1,200,000. The hon. Member had, however, mistaken the statement which he had made to the House. He had said, that the population had increased from the year 1812 to 1838 by more than double, but that from 1831 to 1838, being the period in which the Corn-laws were in operation, the quantity of coals consumed had increased from 500,000 to 1,200,000. That was the first point. The hon. Gentleman had also made a curious error in respect to the savings' bank at Glasgow. The hon. Gentleman had stated, that he had said, that the total increase of the profit to contributors in one year, between 1837 and 1838, was 2 s. d. l. l. s. s. s.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that if the hon. Member for Birmingham had confined his motion to an instruction to the Committee to reconsider their vote, he could then have raised an argument; but having proposed, in addition, that the Committee should enquire into the expediency of an increase of the number of men, he came at once within the restriction imposed by parliamentary usage. It was, he conceived, most important, both in practice and in principle, that the House should not have the power to increase a vote proposed by the Crown. The question involved a great constitutional principle. Once establish the practice of increasing particular votes, and the same thing would be done with all the estimates. The result would be a general adoption of this indirect mode of increasing the expense of the public establishments. He did not mean to controvert the arguments and statements of the hon. Gentleman; but on the constitutional principle he had adverted to, he objected to the course proposed to be pursued.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that Mr. M'Neill had applied for permission to come home on account of ill health, in the course of last year, and that permission had been given to him to do so whenever the state of the public service might enable him to quit the post of which he was in charge. When the state of the discussion with the Persian government led him to think, that it was his duty to retire
 802
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that there was no person now in that position. Mr. M'Neill, he had already stated, had, in consequence of what had taken place, not thought fit to give notice, that he should retire from the territory, and the chargé d'affaires would not return without instructions from the Government.
 Viscount Sandon  said, that although the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, had kept his promise with respect to making a short speech, he had not failed to raise the old cry of justice to Ireland. He had also attempted to raise within the walls of that House a cry which had, up to that time, been only heard, with one or two exceptions, outside. The hon. and learned Member had endeavoured to create a feeling that upon this question the aristocracy were united in opposition to the poor for their own sordid and private interests, and to represent them as oppressors of the people, who interposed between them and the possession of abundance. He had represented the Corn-law as an unjust protection to agriculture, and had described it as one of the evils resulting from the old feudal system. Was the hon. Member for Dublin aware that in countries where no feudal system had ever existed, as well as in those countries in which that system had been abolished, there were protections for the agricultural interest? In the principal States of Europe there were Corn-laws; even in the United States there was a
 827 828 829
 Sir J. Buller  supported the motion, and would go even further than the hon. Member for Lambeth, in recommending the House to proceed no further with any of those local bills this Session. It was most important that they should all agree in their provisions, and it would be a useless outlay of money for the parties interested to carry their measures any further, when they might be rendered unnecessary by the adoption of the bill of the noble Lord. The expenses already incurred were unnecessary, because the parties had notice of the noble Lord's bill. If the noble Lord's bill should pass, he would agree with the hon. Member in putting a stop to all bills of this description.
 Colonel Perceval  begged to inquire of the noble Lord why the circumstances
 876
 Mr. Colquhoun  said that the Government possessed sufficient data to enable them to furnish the information sought, and he wished, in addition, to ascertain whether it was not a fact that in the greater part of the schools, Roman Catholic books of devotion were read during the hours appointed for literary instruction. He agreed with the hon. Member for Wicklow that there had been great unfairness in the amounts of grants made to these different schools. The grants made to schools in the provinces of Ulster and Leinster were large, and to those in the provinces of Munster and Connaught, where the people were the most uneducated, comparatively trifling. The grants were also very unequally distributed to different schools in the same provinces. He did not impute this extraordinary difference to partiality on the part of the commissioners; but he thought that it was sufficient to call upon Parliament to inquire what was the reason which induced them to make grants most sparingly in those parts of Ireland which required them the most, and most lavishly in those parts which appeared to require them the least. He concurred with the noble Lord in the extreme importance of having good masters for these schools, and had heard him with the greatest satisfaction, declare he should most heartily co-operate with the board in procuring good masters. But let the House see the wonderful difference which sometimes existed between profession and practice. The masters of these schools were not good; they were of that class of men which had been denounced by Mr. Grant, now Lord Glenelg, and were most of them better qualified for any other functions than those which they discharged. For instance, one of them in Sligo had been a smuggler; another near Limerick had been out in the rebellion of 1798, and still passed his evenings in the amiable pastime of reading to the peasantry the wretched garbage of the most Radical part of the press of Dublin; a third, in Achill, had been dismissed from the coast-guard for treasonable practices; and a fourth, in Waterford, had been sentenced to seven years' transportation, though his punishment had been subsequently commuted to nine months' imprisonment by Lord Normanby, for ringing the bell of the chapel at which he was clerk, to summon his neighbourhood to the commission of a most glaring outrage. In one of the female schools near Limerick, the mistress,
 885 l. 886
 Mr. Colquhoun  was not aware of that. He only knew, that when Dr. Finn was examined before the committee in 1837, he was then an inspector. But what must be the character of a board which could appoint a man so scandalized and so notorious as Dr. Finn to the responsible situation of an inspector? And now the noble Lord attempted to ride off from this charge by stating that Dr. Finn had been discharged! What he (Mr. Colquhoun) wanted to know was this—why Dr. Finn had ever been appointed? Was it wise to in trust large funds to the disposal of a board which acted with such inattention to its duties, or with such connivance with persons whom he needed not designate further, as to place in the possession and superintendence of these schools, men stained with such misconduct as he had described? He thought that the hon. Member for Wick low had only done his duty in bringing before Parliament this misconduct on the part of the board. Parliament should be careful how it granted so large a sum of money as 50,000 l.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  would ask the hon. Member who had just sat down whether the facts which he had just stated had occurred before or after the investigation which a committee of the House of Commons had made into this subject in 1837. If they had occurred before, why had not the hon. Member stated them in the evidence which he then gave with so much prolixity? If they had occurred since, why had he not submitted them to the board, and waited until the board refused to inquire into them, before he submitted them to the consideration of
 887 888
 Mr. Colquhoun  was not in the secrets or the Irish Government, and therefore could not be aware either when or how long Dr. Finn had been discharged.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said discussions of this kind were very provoking, as they led to no definite result. He believed, that the present system presented the nearest approach that was possible in the existing circumstances to a legitimate and just application of the principle of education in Ireland. He contended for that application, not as being the best system of education, but as the best that circumstances rendered possible in Ireland. But he was firmly of opinion, that the circumstances which rendered such a system applicable to Ireland could not be urged to render it applicable to England, where the circumstances did not exist. On the contrary, he thought, that the very circumstances which rendered the system applicable in the case of Ireland rendered it inapplicable in England. He, as a Protestant, did not believe, that the system would tend to the increase of the Roman Catholic religion. On the other hand, he did not support these schools with the purpose of making them schools of proselytism. With respect to the question of the exclusion of Scriptural knowledge from the schools, he would mention a case that was within his own observation. He had some time back visited some of these schools, and, in particular, one in a remote part of the country, where, by reason of the unfortunate withdrawal of the Protestants of the neighbourhood from all kinds of control over the establishment, its sole and exclusive direction and superintendence was vested in the Roman Catholic priest. He went unexpectedly and without notice; he asked for the rules of the school, and requested, that the children should go through the usual work, which they would have done, at that hour of the day, if no stranger had been present. The appointed business was the Scripture extracts, and these children, under the guidance of a Roman Catholic priest, went through their exercise and answered the questions which he was permitted to put to them, in the most unexceptionable way, and so as to show their full acquaintance with the subject. He said, therefore, that it was not fair to bring accusations of want of knowledge of the Scriptures against these schools. It might be that a sectarian character attached to the schools, as was so often objected from
 890
 Lord Eliot  rose to make a few remarks on the observations which had fallen from the learned Doctor opposite (Sir S. Lushington), and to state briefly his opinion on the conduct of her Majesty's Government with respect to the proceedings connected with the Mexican blockade. That learned Gentleman had said, that any blockade to be real and legitimate must be effective in all points, and in this opinion he entirely concurred. Now, it appeared from a letter of the French Admiral Baudin, bearing date the 29th of November, that the blockade was not universal; and, indeed, it was clear, that the squadron there engaged could not effectually blockade a coast extending above 1,500 miles. He would protest, therefore, against an illegal exercise of a questionable right. He hoped, that the negotiation which, he understood, was on foot would speedily terminate the differences unhappily existing between France and Mexico; and he entertained this hope with a greater degree of confidence, because the negotiation between England and France, had been intrusted to her Majesty's representative in the latter country, than whom no man more able, no public servant more faithful, ever existed. He concurred in the importance of maintaining our amicable relations with France; but without any desire to interrupt these relations, it was the duty of that House to interfere whenever the honour and interests of Great Britain were at stake. He
 933
 Lord John Russell : The first commission set out that the inquiry was instituted by command of his late Majesty upon the address of the House of Lords; and then it went on to direct them to inquire into certain points not alluding at all to Joint-stock companies. In the second commission, the former inquiry was recited, and it was provided that a new one should be instituted.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the commission originally granted, stated the grounds on which it had issued, but that upon a new one being framed it was not customary again to set forth the grounds, but only to state, that the commission appointed had expired. In what was essential, namely the points upon which the inquiry was made, the hon. Member would see that the form used was exactly the same as that first used.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he should certainly lay the general regulations of the Commissioners upon the Table of the House. As to the first point in the observations of the right hon. Baronet, he could only say, that he did not think that it would be in his power to bring in any Bill with respect to the amendment of the existing law very early in the Session, as he had not been able yet to proceed with many of the bills before the House. He might now state, as a question upon the subject had before been asked, that in the bill which he intended to introduce he did not mean to make any provisions affecting, the operations of those parishes governed by local Acts.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he, of course, could say nothing as to the probability of any measure passing that House; but he must say, that the parties by whom these bills had been introduced had had abundant notice of his intention to introduce the general measure now before the House. He stated the principle of the bill last year, and this Session he had not only brought it in as early as possible, but he had taken care to separate the Small Debts Bill from other provisions to which some objections were likely to be made, and which might impede its progress. The only question for the House, as it appeared to him, was whether they would allow a number of these separate bills to go through committee, when there was a general measure before Parliament upon the same subject. Those bills had always been objected to by his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-General, and he thought pro-
 875
 Lord Teignmouth  thought, with great deference to the noble Lords, the Member for North Lancashire, and the Secretary for Ireland, that the system of education in that country favoured by them had proved an utter failure, not only because it had not produced union between the Protestants and the Roman Catholics, but because it had gradually become exclusively Popish in its objects. The noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, had introduced Scriptural extracts, which were supposed to confer religious instruction, but by the fourth report of the Board of Education it appeared, that those had ceased to be used, and that the education provided had become exclusively secular in its character, although both parties had protested against this course. It was well known, that the Protestant and the Roman Catholic Children were no longer united in the same school. It appeared from the statement of Mr. Carlyle, before the committee of the House of Commons, that in 300 out of 444 schools in Leinster, Munster, and Connaught, there were no Protestants; and in 125 more not above nine. Dr. Elrington had stated before the same committee, that the system of Scriptural education, which had been discountenanced, in order to substitute for it a system unscriptural and anti-Protestant, had been in such a flourishing condition, that the number of scholars increased by 300,000 from 1812 to 1824. He was persuaded, indeed, that nothing could check the spread of scriptural education in Ireland, let the Pope issue whatever bulls he pleased. He could not deny, that the present system had done good; but, being founded on principles essentially vicious, must, in the end, lead to the most mischievous results.
 Mr. Pringle  wished to ask the noble Secretary for Ireland whether he meant to persist in withholding that portion of the returns that would distinguish the numbers of Protestant and Roman Catholic children. If the noble Lord did refuse this, he hoped the hon. Member for Wicklow would persist in taking the sense of the House on the question.
 Mr. Hawes  moved, that the order to commit any bill for the recovery of small debts be discharged, and that no such bill be committed until the 8th day of April next. There were many Small Debts bills now before the House, and it was exceedingly important that they should be uniform in their provisions. The object of his present motion was to postpone any determination upon their enactments until after the House had determined upon the course it intended to pursue relative to the County Courts Bill, introduced by the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department, which might in some instances avoid the necessity of the local bills being passed at all. Many of the bills contained provisions in reference to different localities which were of a conflicting nature, and such as to prevent all uniformity in the practice.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that the allusion which had been made to the conduct of the Admiralty rendered it necessary for him to trespass for a short time on the attention of the House. Neither the noble Lord who made the motion nor the hon. Gentleman, pretended to say, that any actual injury had been experienced by the British residents in Mexico from the want of pro-
 929 930
 Sir F. French  thought this was part of the crusade which had been undertaken by her Majesty's Government against the Protestant religion in Ireland.
 Mr. Shaw  would be prepared to meet the noble Lord whenever he came forward as the champion of the existing system of national education in Ireland. He maintained that as a system of united education it bad failed to afford satisfaction to any one religious class in Ireland. The noble Lord congratulated himself that if the system had failed as one of united education, it would resolve itself into one of separate education. He (Mr. Shaw) could not desire the obtaining of a separate education by such means. The noble Lord had agreed generally to the returns, but had refused the most important part of them. He denied that these were not the data for the formation of such a return, and surely it was very desirable if it could be done without any invidious views, to know whether the system had worked well as one of united education.
 Mr. Grote  said, that he owed it to a very numerous body of petitioners, who had intrusted him with a petition on the subject this day, and also to the feeling which he knew to be extensively prevalent among a considerable part of the mercantile constituency he represented, to say a very few words on the subject before the House. No man was less disposed than he was to multiply or carve out unnecessary opportunities for criticising the conduct of the executive Government with respect to its foreign policy. But although he recognised the propriety of exercising great forbearance on that subject, yet he must say he was not prepared to draw the line so strictly as the noble Lord. He was not prepared to abstain from making those criticisms which on certain occasions that conduct seemed to require. Although he perfectly felt the necessity of looking at the world as one great whole, and of speaking of existing circumstances under the conviction that what was said in London was read at Paris and at Washington—a circumstance, by the by, which occasionally appeared to be lost sight of by some hon. Members—still, when the opinions of English merchants, who felt themselves to be seriously injured by the policy of the Government, were strongly expressed, it was absolutely necessary that they should find an echo in that House. There were three points about this case which rendered it impossible for those suffering from the present state of affairs in Mexico to remain silent. First, the extent of the inconvenience which they suffered; next, the conviction, which appeared to be thoroughly well grounded, the moment we looked into the nature of the complaint preferred, that the blockade enforced against Buenos Ayres and Mexico did not repose on any solid or well-grounded causes of complaint; and, thirdly, that there had been
 918 l. 919 920
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that the House had as yet received no assurance that the measure which had been introduced by the Government would be pressed on, or would be proceeded with at all; and he thought that some statement of the views of the noble Lord upon the subject should be made. It would be unjust to the parties that they should lose the money which they had spent, without the benefit to which they were entitled being secured to them.
 Mr. James Grattan  rose to call the attention of the House to the subject of the monies voted by Parliament for education in Ireland. The board by which the distribution of the money had been made had been in existence during a period of eight years, and had expended a sum of 264,000 l. 877 l. l. 878
 Mr. J. Grattan  wanted to take the direction of religious education from the hands of a majority either of Protestants or Catholics. His object was to do away with distinctions. He moved for the return for the purpose of seeing how the principle worked; 50,000 l.
 Mr. E. Tennent  wished to move an amendment for further papers illustrative of the nature of French proceedings. It was a startling fact, that France within the last twelve months, and during a period of profound peace, should have possessed herself, by blockade or forcible occupation, of upwards of 2,000 miles of the eastern coast of South America, including the entire Gulf of Mexico, with its important sea-ports, and the two greatest navigable rivers in the universe, the Amazons and La Plata. As to the political objects of France in such a movement, or her motives, beyond what might be immediately ostensible—whether of permanent conquest, which she disclaimed, or a desire to withdraw the attention of her subjects from matters nearer home, he (Mr. E. Tennent) was not disposed then to speculate; but the main point on which his constituents and the mercantile interests of the empire at large were vitally concerned was not merely the injury or interruption, but the actual suspension and paralysis, of all commerce with South America, which had resulted from the military operations of France upon her coasts. He said the trade with America generally, for, although Mexico and Buenos Ayres were the points nominally assailed, the injury inflicted was not confined to those points alone, but extended to New Orleans and Havannah, on the Atlantic, and to Valparaiso and Lima, on the Pacific, which formerly received our exports for re-shipment to the Gulf and the La Plata, but which being now equally excluded with ourselves no longer exhibited a demand for our produce. The broad principles on which Great Britain had always maintained the right of blockade—a latitude which, to say the least, had not been circumscribed by the noble Lord opposite (Lord Palmerston) in his correspondence with the Mexican men, chants—rendered it imperative on this country at all times to see that our trade was not interrupted upon frivolous pretences, or at the caprice of parties who wanted either the power or the inclination to bring their causes of complaint to a speedy adjustment. And looking at the whole circumstances of the recent French aggressions in South America—not in Mexico alone, but its Buenos Ayres
 911 l. l. 912 "The ridiculous proposition of submitting to the arbitration of a third power, as if France was treating of those ordinary questions of doctrines or interests upon which doubts might exist; or, as if the dignity and duties of France could ever permit her to leave to a third party, the case of deciding whether the plunders, the violences, and the assassinations, of which her citizens had been the victims, were, or were not, the subject of sufficient reparation." "Such are the demands which the undersigned is charged to address once, and for the last time, to the Mexican government—inasmuch as the present note is an ultimatum, and the determination of France, herein contained, is irrevocable. The undersigned will wait for an answer until the 15th of April. Should (which God forbid) the answer be in the negative, upon only one point—should even be
 913 l. 914 915 l. l. 916 l. l. 917
 Mr. E. Tennent  wished to know what answer the noble Lord had received with regard to the application of British subjects in Para for compensation.
 Mr. Plumptre  said, the reason why the Protestant clergy would not co-operate with the Roman Catholic priests in the conduct of these schools was, that they thought the system was deficient in principle. For his part, he hoped the Protestant clergy never would so co-operate, and he firmly believed, that the present system, as a joint system, never ought
 889
 Mr. Somerset Maxwell  did not mean to be uncharitable, but he must say, that this system operated as an invasion of the word of God.
 Sir Stephen Lushington : Assuming that the information before the House was correct, and gave a fair view of the circumstances of the question connected with the motion of the noble Lord, and that the House was in possession of the more important facts on both sides, he must confess (from all he knew) that he could not view the conduct of the French Government, whether with respect to their proceedings in the Gulf of Mexico, or with respect to their very extraordinary
 921 922 923 924 925 926
 Mr. W. Evans  thought that it would be unjust to accede to this proposition,
 874
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  felt called upon to say a few words on the subject before the House. The noble Lord opposite (Lord Palmerston) had said, that the commercial interests had no right to complain of the blockade on the coast of Mexico, and that he, on the part of the Government, had done all that was required, and that a sufficient force had been provided in the Gulf of Mexico to protect the persons and properties of British subjects. To these propositions he (Mr. Alderman Thompson) dissented, and thought he should be able to show, that
 927 928
 Sir, De Lacy Evans  wished to offer an observation on one point connected with the debate. The learned Doctor, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, had observed, that whatever expressions might have been used in noticing the propriety of defending the interests of British commerce, he hoped, that nothing which took place that night might interfere with our friendly relations with France. He entirely concurred in the expression of that hope, and that appeared to be the universal feeling on the subject; but there was one matter, which must be his apology for addressing the House after the full discussion which the question had received on the subject. Some months back he had been in Paris, and there much had been said of the observations in the English public press regarding the blockade of Mexico. At that time the question was first brought forward. He afterwards had had the honour of an interview with one of the most influential statesmen of France, and it was with that eminent person an object of the greatest anxiety—an object which he wished especially to press on the Liberal party of this country—that in the discussions on that subject here, they should avoid indiscriminate application of the terms Government and France. These terms, however, had, throughout that discussion, been used indiscriminately by hon. Members, and the word France had been used as frequently as the Government of France. He had therefore, thought it right to mention that the influential individual to whom he had alluded, had expressed a desire, that they, in their discussions in this country, should draw a distinction between the policy of the government of the Cabinet of Count Molé, and the feelings of the people of France; and he felt assured, that whatever steps might be taken by the Governments, having a tendency to interrupt the amicable relations existing between the two countries, they would not be sanctioned by the feelings of the people at large.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), in his statement of the course of public business yesterday, had not stated that it was his intention to bring in any measure to amend the provisions of the Poor-Law Amendment Act. He begged to recommend that if any such measure were proposed to be introduced, it would be exceedingly important that it should be brought before the House at as early a period as possible. He desired, also, to ask the noble Lord whether it were intended to lay before the House any general regulations of the Poor-law Commissioners under the provisions of the existing Act?
 Captain Pechell  said, that the hon. Members who had opposed this motion might rest satisfied as to no pains being lost to procure a general measure being passed, because if that of the noble Lord were to fail, he should introduce again a bill which had passed this House last Session, and, by mistake, was thrown out in the other House of Parliament.
 Mr. Ward  thought, that the debate would be of great use, if its only practical result were to enforce the arguments which the Government of this country was bound to address to the Government of France with respect to the injury done to British interests by the course which that Government was now taking in Mexico. He could not help contrast-low the sound principles laid down by the Mexican government throughout the whole of this dispute with the exorbi-
 931 932
 Mr. M. Phillips  thought, that the French had forgotten their honour, and had far out stepped what was due from one nation to another, and especially from the stronger to the weaker, when they required payment of 200,000 dollars as the expenses of the expedition.
 Sir R. Peel  thought it had been truly remarked, that the subject under discussion had been exhausted in the present debate, and no speech had contributed in a greater degree to this result than the speech of the hon. Member for the city of London, which was a speech well worthy of the representative of that great mercantile constituency, and the speech of the hon. and learned civilian who had laid down the doctrines and principles of the law of nations with a clearness worthy of the sentiments embodied in that speech. The noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, had said, that the French government had fully satisfied him with regard to the French occupation of the Mexican territory—he had said, that the assurances given by the French government upon this subject were formal and satisfactory, and such as to allay any suspicion which might be entertained as to the future intentions of France. If these assurances were of that description, what possible objection could there be to producing them? The impression which the debate had produced on his mind was, that there was very little use in having either a British fleet or a British consul at a foreign station; for it had been contended, that however great a force we might have had in the Gulf of Mexico, it could have afforded no protection to British commerce in that part of the world. Then for what purpose did we maintain a peace establishment? He had thought it was for the protection of British commerce in all parts of the world. It appeared, that there was a large British force on the West India station for the protection of British commerce; in what manner was that force to act? Why it had been said, that a British commodore was stationed at Mexico, and he had power over eight ships of war in the West Indies, which he could command to the Gulf of Mexico if their presence was required; and that, because he had not called for them, it was clear, that no British interest was placed in danger. Now, consider in how difficult a situation that officer was placed; if he were called upon to decide upon his own authority what kind of demonstrations ought to be made towards France while he was left without any instructions from those who were better acquainted with the state of our relations with France, than this commodore could possibly be. Would he not depend upon receiving instructions
 935 l. 936 937
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that as the noble Lord had received such formal and satisfactory guarantees from the French government on the subject of this occupation, he hoped the noble Lord would give the House also the satisfaction of perusing them.
 Sir Robert Peel  remarked, that the first commission appeared to recognise the (Need, principle of Joint-stock companies being formed, as a condition upon which public aid should be granted. That this should be omitted in the second commission was somewhat extraordinary.
 Mr. O'Conor  said, that while hon. Gentlemen opposite seemed ready on all occasions to make attacks on the Roman Catholic priesthood, he was, on the other hand, ready to pay his tribute of respect to the memory of an eminent divine of the established faith—he meant Dr. Law, late Bishop of Elphin, whose principal object was to render all his diocesans good Christians by dispersing books, and he would say to the hon. Gentlemen opposite, in the language of charity, "Go ye and do likewise."
 Viscount Morpeth.  He has been discharged two years.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that his com-
 891
 Viscount Morpeth  would not undertake to decide whether the speech of his hon. friend or his motion had been dictated by a desire to damage the national system of education in Ireland, and to check its further progress; but this he must say, that he could not acquit it of all tendency to so prejudicial a course, for his hon. Friend must be aware that the censures or cavils of those who were held to be friendly to any system of things, would always outweigh the most vehement attacks of its professed enemies. He did not see that the nature of his hon. Friend's motion, or the scope of the speech with which he had prefaced it, called on him (Lord Morpeth) to enter into any defence of the principle on which the national system of Education in Ireland proceeded. There had been, it was true, considerable hostility to the system, as well in England as in some parts of Ireland; but as it had received the sanction of successive governments, and as the House had annually voted a large sum for its maintenance, he did think, unless that sanction were withdrawn, or those votes discontinued, he would be justified in assuming that Parliament was prepared to alter or abrogate that system. But his hon. Friend had found fault with the mode in which the principle of the system had been carried into effect; and his principal charge was, that the great object of the plan., that of establishing an universal and united system of education, had totally failed. This was a charge not confined to the hon. Gentleman, it had been reiterated in many quarters before. There could be no doubt that the hope with which the system was originally projected by the noble Lord opposite—a hope in which the present Government still continued to indulge—was, that it should be one of united education. It had been at one time denounced, it was true, by several members of the established church, and by some
 879 880 881 "The appointment of teachers rests with the local patrons and committees of schools. But the commissioners are to be satisfied of the fitness of each, both as to character and general qualification. He should be a person of Christian sentiment, of calm temper and discretion; he should be imbued with a spirit of peace, of obedience to the law, and loyalty to his Sovereign; he should not only possess the art of communicating knowledge, but be capable of moulding the mind of youth, and of giving the power which education confers a useful direction. These are the qualities for which patrons of schools on making choice of teachers, should anxiously look. They are those which the commissioners are anxious to find, to encourage, and to reward. The commissioners have provided a normal establishment adjoining their official house in Marlborough-street, Dublin, for training teachers and educating persons destined to undertake the charge of schools; and they will not, in future, sanction the appointment of a teacher permanently to any school, unless he shall have received a certificate from them, or from such one of their officers as they may authorise to examine him on the spot, that he is duly qualified for it. Persons presented for admission to the normal establishment must produce a certificate of good character from an officiating clergyman of the communion to which they belong; they must take the oath, or make a solemn declaration of allegiance before a magistrate and in the presence of the commissioners; they must pass through an examination in grammar, in the third, fourth, and fifth lesson books published by the commissioners, and which contain a series of historical, scientific, and general information; also in arithmetic, in geometry, and in mensuration. Those allowed to enter will be boarded and lodged at a house which the commissioners have taken
 882 "Although the commissioners do not absolutely refuse aid towards the erection of school houses on ground connected with a place of worship, they say, yet they much prefer having them erected on ground which is not so connected, where it can be obtained; they, therefore, expect that, before church, chapel, or meeting-house ground be adopted as the site of a school-house, inquiry be made whether another convenient site can be obtained, and that the result shall be stated to them." 883
 Viscount Morpeth.  The hon. Member ought in common fairness to state that Dr. Finn has been discharged.
 Viscount Palmerston  would give the right hon. Baronet an answer on a future
 940
 Viscount Palmerston  said, the British Government had applied to the Brazilian government for compensation to our subjects. The Brazilian government denied the claim, and offered reasons in support of that denial, and there had been a great deal of correspondence between the two governments on the subject. The last answer of the British Government was sent out some time back, but no reply had as yet been received. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Gentleman would see that the claims of the public service required that he should postpone his application until the negotiation was closed one way or another.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that instructions had been sent out to our minister at the Brazils to enforce a positive demand.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the right hon. Baronet had misunderstood him if he supposed that he had said, that in his opinion we had no alternative between tacit acquiescence and war with France. What he had said, and what he meant was, that the arguments which had been used by hon. Gentlemen opposite appeared to him to lead to such a conclusion; in fact, he had combated those arguments, and in doing so, he had stated his belief that there was another course, the amicable interposition of our good offices between the two parties. The right hon. Baronet need not have asked of what use the presence of a naval force was in adding weight to the representation of our minister, and for reconciling conflicting parties, for his speech proved that he did not undervalue its presence. It was perfectly evident, that it was of advantage, as well in the case of the strong as in the case of the weaker power. The right hon. Baronet asked also
 938 939
 Viscount Palmerston , in rising to reply to the speech which had just been addressed to the House, felt bound to do the noble Lord opposite the justice to say, that he had brought forward the question in a manner as little calculated as possible to cause embarrassment to the great interests involved. With regard to the greater part of the documents, he offered no objection to their production. But he considered, it would not be consistent with the interests of the public service to produce copies of the communications pending between the English and French Governments on the subject alluded to by the noble Lord. In the principle laid down by the noble Lord, that the act of blockade was the act of a belligerent party, he was prepared to concur, and equally agreed with the noble Lord in thinking, that to be respected it ought to be effective; but
 903 904 905 906 907 908 Heard. R. Peel: 909 910
 Viscount Sandon , in consequence of the notice he had given, respecting the French blockade of the Mexican ports, presented a petition from the merchants of Liverpool on that subject. It was a subject which had previously been before the House. He thought, he perhaps need not further allude to the contents, as he should be called upon to move for them in some detail. He would only remark, that this petition was not one signed only by the merchants of Liverpool, but was signed
 892 893 894 895 896 897 898 899 900 901 902
 Mr. Aglionby  thought that the beer sellers should not be ridden over because they were poor. He concurred generally with Mr. Hume that a most unjust outcry had been raised against the beer sellers. Perhaps it would be better if the Government would introduce a measure for the regulation of all parties connected with the question. He would, however, at once agree to the second reading of the bill, but would most diligently watch it when it came before the Committee.
 Mr. W. Duncombe  believed it was almost generally the opinion throughout the country, that beer-shops had much demoralized the people. In the county he had the honour to represent, at the Assizes, the Judge, the Grand Jury, and the Magistrates all said these shops were the
 946
 Mr. Warburton  said, upon the last discussion of this subject he had told the hon. Member, that if the bill was made one of police, if it was to regulate beer-shops, it would meet with no opposition. If the hon. Member would defer the committee until after Easter, he would offer no opposition to the second reading of the bill. Every crime that was now committed was attributed to beer-houses. Why, crimes existed before beer-shops, and even Mr. Wright, who had been quoted, said, that criminals had made confessions, and before the beer-shops were opened, and then they attributed their folly to the associates they made in licensed houses. Mr. Wright attributed the incendiarism of 1829 and 1830 to the beer-shops, when the fact was, the Sale of Beer Act, did not come into operation till October, 1830. Crimes, he was prepared to prove, had not only not increased, but had actually decreased. It was boasted of, only a few nights ago, that the deposits in savings' banks had much increased. Was that a sign of greater drunkenness? So long as beer was made good it would be drunk. To prevent that, they must either make the beer much worse, or prevent its sale altogether. He had no doubt but the country would be more moral if the sale of all intoxicating liquors was prohibited. But were they able to do so? At all events let them not allow beer to be sold under one set of circumstances, and prevent a free trade. Under this bill the landlord would have the whole power of the licensing magistrates, and to that he should prefer the old system. Under the bill, a new house built on purpose for the trade could not be opened at all, and if a person disposed of his business in the beer trade, that house could not be opened by the buyer under one twelvemonth. Then, by the bill, the sellers of beer were to be much heavier taxed—the licence was to be raised from 3 l. s. l. s.
 Mr. Hume  was glad he had given way to the right hon. Gentleman, because his statements would be of importance in enabling the House to come to a proper decision. The House would not, however, take the statements of the hon. Gentleman opposite without some reservation, for it was well known that tens of thousands of the working classes, for whose accommodations these shops had been established, had stated that they now got much better and cheaper beer than formerly. He denied that there was any immorality or intemperance practised in these shops. The poor man could enjoy his beer in moderation, and perhaps in that respect set an example to persons of a higher rank; and he need not refer to club-houses and hells.—in proof of the immorality and intemperance prevailing in the higher classes. He was warranted in making that statement by what had occurred during the fair in Hyde Park after the Coronation, and the evidence there was, that there were more persons of the class of the hon. Gentleman, in point of rank and property, engaged in riot and drunkenness than of the lower classes. The hon. Member referred to the evidence of Col. Rowan and Mr. Mayne for the purpose of showing that drunkenness and crime had diminished in the metropolis and its neighbourhood, and that was ascribed to the increase of beer-houses and the diminished sale of spirits. It appeared also from the same evidence, that the number of convictions which had taken place were much greater in the case of public houses than in beer shops. Of every 100 persons who had been convicted for adulterating beer, ninety-three were publicans and seven the keepers of beer shops. He thought he had offered sufficient evi-
 947
 Mr. P. Howard  objected to that clause of the bill which proposed that the prices of licences should be raised. Licensing should not be raised, except in the case of a war, or some other great emergency. He could see no necessity for the bill. He would prefer to see the present system retained under the superintendence of an effective rural police.
 Mr. R. T. Parker  read a statement which asserted, that about Manchester,
 948
 Mr. Slaney  thought the hon. Member for Kilkenny was mistaken in his criminal statistics—the fact being, that crime instead of having diminished, as he had said, had fearfully increased. Thirty years ago the committals for crime in this country, were only 5,000, now they had swelled to 30,000, while the growth of the population had not been in anything like a corresponding ratio. He thought the beer-houses held out irresistible temptations to the poor and the lower classes, and tended towards general crime and demoralization. He must, therefore, support the bill of the hon. Member for Droitwich, and, whether the Government should take the measure into its own hands or not, the country would still be much indebted to him.
 Sir C. Burrell  said, in the country, beer shops were the resort of poachers and thieves, and in them many great crimes had been planned. When the Beer Act was before the House, it was said the poor would have the benefit of cheap and better beer. But was that the case—had not the whole trade fallen into the hands of the large brewers? He knew one brewer who had no less than sixty of these beer shops of his own.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  would rather reserve what he had to say until the bill went into Committee. He thought, however, that the hon. Gentleman whatever might be the cause, had taken up a very strong prejudice against the Licensed Victuallers. He thought the Government ought to take the question into its own hands, and introduce some general measures for the better regulation of both beer-houses and public houses. This would probably best please all classes. He thought the hon. Gentleman would have great difficulty in getting his bill passed.
 Mr. Pakington  rose to move the second reading of the Bill for the amendment of the Sale of Beer Act. It had become indispensable that Parliament should interfere upon this subject, and he would shortly explain the nature of the provisions which he had ventured to suggest. It must be in the recollection of hon. Members, that when the present Act passed in 1830, it was predicted by those who were opposed to the Act, that it would be impossible that it should come into operation without producing the most prejudicial and dangerous effects upon the morals of the people. All these predictions had been verified, and the evil had become even greater than had been anticipated. The Beer Act, instead of conducing to the comfort of the labouring classes, had only pandered to their vices. Not a year had elapsed from the passing of the Beer Act before these evils came into operation, and in 1833, three years after the passing of the Act, they had increased to such an extent that a Committee was appointed to investigate this subject, and an Act passed to amend the former Act. That Act had proved a complete nullity. The time had now come when the complaints of the clergy and magistracy on this subject ought to be attended to, and the Beer Act be either totally repealed or greatly modified. He had no doubt he should be opposed on financial grounds, and the hon. Gentleman opposite had moved for returns, which showed an increase in the malt-tax since the passing of the Beer Bill. Now this tax, although not to the same extent, bad increased in Scotland, and when it was considered that the duty was taken off beer at the same time, he did not think they could fairly attribute this increase in the malt-tax to the passing of the Beer Act. When the question was last before the House, the Chancellor of the Exchequer wished them to consider the vast amount of capital invested in beer-shops, but the Bill which was now under discussion would leave untouched all those houses where capital to any
 942 943 944 l. l. l. 945
 Mr. O'Connell , seeing the right hon. Gentleman the Under-Secretary to the Colonial Department in his place, would take the liberty of repeating a question to him, which he had been already asked, and which was whether from any information received by the government, it appeared that the capital executions in Canada were about to cease?
 Mr. D'Israeli  said, that a fallacy ran through the whole of the ingenious speech of the hon. Gentleman. The constitution of England consisted of the estates of the realm. The Commons of England in Parliament, were one of those estates. If the elective body in the country were to be an estate of the realm, it was absurd to have a House of Commons to represent the volition of the nation. When the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Kilkenny, talked of the people, he should give some definition of what he meant by the term "people." We knew what a nation was, but what did he mean by a people? The hon. Member's notion of a people was the electors of Kilkenny; that of the hon. Member for the city of London those who hallooed him on the hustings. He (Mr. D'Israeli) said, that that House, an estate of the realm, was the only representative of the Commons of England. The gentlemen who smiled or sneered at this, were sneering at the English constitution. The hon. Member for Kilkenny said, that the theory of the constitution was, that taxation and representation should go hand in hand. Where did he find that principle? In what part of the constitution did he find it? In Magna Charta—in the Bill of Rights—or in that famous Reform Bill which the hon. Member once welcomed with so much enthusiasm, and now attacked with so much causticity? The hon. Member had
 1095
 Mr. O'Connell  was sorry to observe the air of ridicule which had been attempted to be thrown on this important question by some of the speeches which he had heard. The hon. Members for Carlisle and Maidstone seem disposed to treat it in a tone of grave mockery. They might attempt to treat it with ridicule, but the public at large could not be made to treat
 1098 l. l. l. l. l. 1099 mens divinior 1100
 Lord J. Russell  was anxious to refer to two remarks which had fallen from the hon. Member for London and the hon. Member for Sheffield. The hon. Member for London had said, that he (Lord John Russell) had stated, that the inequality of representation was a defect of the Reform Bill. He certainly did not state, that it was a defect in the Reform Bill; but he had expressed his opinion, that no fair representation of the numbers, property, and intelligence of a country could be secured by the alteration proposed. The hon. Member for Sheffield had said, that he (Lord John Russell) had denied the competency of Parliament to entertain the present question. Now he had by no means denied the competency of Parliament to entertain the question, but he had said, that it would not be wise to entertain it.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had certainly made an extensive motion on an important subject. He had gone through all the changes which had been made in the state of the representation in the year 1832, and had proposed upon those changes a large extension of the suffrage; and yet, with all these recommendations to the notice of the House, his motion, if he might judge from the languid state of the House, had excited little interest and attention. He could not wonder at the inattention which prevailed, when he looked at the proposition which the hon. Member for Kilkenny had put upon the votes, but had declined to put into the Speaker's hands; for that proposition was not, that, finding faults in the Reform Act, we should make a new scheme of representation, on which we should be prepared to rest, but that we should establish a certain intermediate step to be changed again, whenever it was deemed advisable to give still further extension to the suffrage, The hon. Member had shown that, under the present system, one in every five adult males in England and Wales had the right of suffrage, and his proposition was, that one out of every three should be qualified, to vote. At present, four out of every five adults were excluded from voting; according to the hon. Member's proposition two out of every three would be excluded. Why, if his proposition were carried, we should have fresh applications the next day to change a constituency so narrowed, and we should have as many applications then from the two that were excluded as
 * See Tables referred to in this Speech in the following page.
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought, that the present question lay between the two parties on the other side of the House, and he had no wish to interfere between them. They were pulling against each other on the brink of a precipice, and it was a matter of perfect indifference to him which pulled the other over. As for the existing suffrage, he was rather disposed to complain that the 10 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. F. French  said, that in calling the attention of the House to the subject of which he had given notice, he assured them no person could be more desirous than he was to do full and ample justice to the report of the railway commissioners, to acknowledge the mass of statistical information
 1103 1104 l. 1105 l. l. l. 1106 1107 1108
 Mr. Grote  said, that in spite of the great want of interest and attention in the House to which the noble Lord had alluded, he hoped they would be good enough to listen to him while making a few remarks on what had fallen from the noble Lord. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had, he thought, rendered great service by setting forth so many important facts, which were in all probability little known to the public, and which, when placed before them, were calculated to open their eyes to the real state of the representation, and to lead to such improvements as might make it a sound and efficient index to the real state of public feeling. He would leave it to the noble Lord to say whether such an exposure of the real state of the representation was or was not calculated to raise it in the estimation of the public. The noble Lord had dwelt very much on the mischiefs of the future changes, and the danger of unsettling the principles established in 1832 by the Reform Act; and he must say, that it had seemed to him, in following the noble Lord's observations, that the noble Lord had borrowed a great number of them from the speeches made by the opponents of his own bill in 1831 and 1832. Sure he was, that almost every one of the topics urged by the noble Lord this evening had been urged long before, and certainly not less forcibly, by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth,
 1091 1092 l. 1093 l. l. l. 1094 l. in sœula sœculorum l.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that dispatches had been received from Sir John Colborne and from Sir George Arthur, and that both of those gallant officers stated that they had great satisfaction in being able to inform the Government that it would not be necessary to carry the capital punishments any further.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in rising to submit his present motion, he hoped that the House would consider it to be as it appeared to him one of great importance which it was necessary they should soon entertain. He had en-
 1049 1050 taxation and representation 1051 "When I propose a reform of Parliament, I propose that the people should send into this House their real Representatives, to deliberate on their wants, and to consult for their interests—to consider their grievances, and attend to their desires. I propose that they should possess, in fact, that which they have hitherto had only in theory—the vast power of holding the purse-strings of the monarch. I feel convinced that I am laying a foundation for the most salutary changes in the comfort and well-being of the people. Laws will no longer be passed in such an assembly for the benefit of Government, or classes, or individuals; they will be no longer passed by men roused at twelve o'clock at night to vote for what they know not, or against that of which they have not heard a single syllable, merely because the leader of their party tells them so to vote. Laws in a reformed Parliament will he cautiously proposed, and seriously and deliberately considered. I say, then, that if we identify this House with the people of the three kingdoms, we may hope, however slowly it may be accomplished, or however impatience or faction may complain of us for not hurrying our steps—we may hope, I say, that by extending to a great and powerful and enlightened people, the rights of having their legitimate Representatives assembled within the walls of Parliament, we furnish the means for the future carrying on unimpaired the Constitution, without
 1052 "I believe the present to be a measure of peace and conciliation; I believe that on its acceptance or rejection depends, on the one hand, tranquillity, prosperity, and concord on the other, the continuance of a state of political discontentment, from which these feelings must arise, naturally degenerated by such a condition of the public mind." "On one or two different occasions I have originated motions on the subject, believing, as I do, that a change is necessary to infuse new vigour into the Constitution, to unite the estates of the realm in the bonds of a sacred and happy union, and to make the House of Commons that which it was intended to be, and professed to be, and ought to be,—the full, vigorous, and efficient Representative of the people of England." 1053 "Whenever any question about elections was brought before the House, the inclination of the House of Commons always was, to favour popular elections, observing, that the more free they were, the more they w ere for the interests of the community. At this day in many boroughs the election still remains popular, being exercised by all the inhabitants, except alms-men, and such like." l. l. l. 1054 "There being no certain custom nor prescription who should be electors and who not, we must have recourse to common right, which, to this purpose. was held to be, that more than the freeholders only ought to have voices in the election, viz.  all men inhabitant householders resident within the borough. "Every male person of full age, and not subject to any legal incapacity, who shall occupy any house or dwelling, the same being  bona fide "With respect to the original intention of the Reform Bill, he was speaking then in the presence of many before whom he had introduced that bill, and who were present at its formation, and he thought he should be corro-
 1055 "In the first place, then, the ancient constitution of our country declares, that no man shall be taxed for the support Of the State who
 1056 1057 "At all events, this appears certain that if any qualification of property were required, in the earliest Parliaments, only the tenure of the property was regarded; and no limitation of value was imposed; but that every freeholder, as suitor of the county court was entitled to vote, however small might be the estate." "In the commencement of representation, no borough contained freemen made such by admission, but only freemen made such by residences, and by sharing in the burdens and privileges of the place." 1058 "That, in the present state of the representation, the great mass of the people are entirely excluded from all share in the government of the country, and that, contrary to the first maxims of justice, and the very principles of constitutional liberty, they are called upon to obey laws, and to pay taxes, to the framing and imposition of which, they have never given their consent.—That the elective franchise is the great badge and mark of political freedom, and that the citizen who is excluded from the possession of this grand privilege of freemen, is degraded by the laws of his country, and held to the condition of a slave.—And that the meeting are, for the present, ready to forego the demand for universal suffrage, and to content themselves with petitioning for an extension of the elective franchise to every householder in Great Britain and Ireland." 1059
 Mr. P. Howard  considered that upon the whole, the Reform Act had been successful. In this great commercial country he was anxious to spare the merchants and
 1097
 Mr. T. Attwood  quite agreed with his hon. and learned Friend behind him, that very improper language had been used in many parts of England; but he was perfectly certain that the masses of English labourers were not interested in anything unjust or illegal. He was sure that they were determined to accomplish a great
 1101
 Mr. Ward  said, that the hon. Member had supposed that a fallacy had run through the very ingenious speech of his hon. friend. This was clear; that the hon. Member had pointed out a great truism, that the House of Commons is not the house of the people. This was not the only truism; he had stated another, that election and representation were not synonymous and reciprocal; which he admitted. With respect to the motion of his hon. Friend, if he had confined his notice to the first part of the resolution which he had placed on the votes, he was convinced there would have been a fuller House. Many Members had been prepared to go with his hon. Friend in his speech as to the extension of the franchise, who were not prepared to go with him as to that part which related to household suffrage. He was prepared to go with him as to household suffrage, leaving the
 1096
 Captain Boldero  regretted to hear the statement made by the hon. Member for Liskeard, which, considering the situation that hon. Member had lately filled in Canada, was calculated, in his opinion, to embarrass the settlement of the dispute respecting the boundary. It appeared, from the speech of the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, that the number of militia and volunteers in that colony amounted to 38,000 men. Now, as the expense of this force was one-third greater than that of regular troops, he believed that the cost could not fall short of 1,500,000 l., l. 1172 d. d. s.
 Lord A. Lennox  said, that having travelled many hundred miles in America he could bear his testimony to the general wish of the Americans for a continuance of peace between the two countries. With respect to the army he would suggest, that bronze medals should be given to soldiers in substitution for the paltry stripes which were given at present as a mark of distinction or merit. The system of recruiting now adopted was quite unfair towards the soldier; indeed, it was in most cases an absolute fraud, as the man before entering was promised a bounty of 4 l. l., 1165 l.
 Lord John Russell  said, I rise to move the postponement of some of the Orders of the Day, and first of all, the committal of the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Bill, which I propose shall be taken on Monday, the 15th of April. In moving this postponement, I will take this opportunity of stating to the House, that it is my intention, in the very first week after the recess, and on one of the first days after the holidays shall cease, to ask for the opinion of the House with respect to the government of Ireland in late years. It appears by the minutes of proceedings of the House of Lords, that that House of Parliament, at an early hour this morning, appointed a Select Committee to inquire into the state of Ireland since 1835, in respect of the crimes and outrages which had rendered life and property insecure in that part of the empire. Now, without wishing to enter into an argument with respect to the propriety of appointing that Committee, which it does not become me, particularly at this time, to enter into, I think it is obvious that the appointment
 1119 1120
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had misunderstood the spirit in which he had alluded to the boundary question in dispute between this country and the United States. He had particularly guarded himself against expressing any opinion upon the merits of the claim of the United States, though he had stated an opinion that the grounds advanced by the negotiators of this country were bad. The peculiar feature of this question was, that it was not a dispute as to the right to a certain well-defined territory, but as to boundaries which had never yet been defined; and upon this point he still maintained that the position taken up by this country, going by the evidence of all the old charters and acts that at all bore upon the matter, was untenable; and he at the same time expressed a hope that the noble Lord would, with the least possible delay, consult the substantial interests of all parties, by taking up, a fair and tenable position. He begged it to be understood that he did not cast the blame of all the delay which had already taken place in this negotiation upon, the noble Lord; on the contrary, he was aware that a great deal of it had taken place before the noble Lord came into office; but he still thought that the noble Lord had not acted, he would not say with sufficient ability, for no one could doubt the noble Lord's brilliant abilities, but with that degree of promptitude which we had a right to expect from so liberal and skilful a politician.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, on one point he differed from the noble Lord—for he believed there never had been a motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny for a reduction in our naval and military establishments that he had not supported. But he never, by any vote, had supported the absurdity, that peace establishments should be kept up in time of war. He was sorry that he did not see in the present Government one great advantage of a united Cabinet; namely a concert among Ministers as to the matters subjected to their different departments. It was a great pity, when the noble Lord determined on economy in the army, that he did not tell his colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to adopt a more modest and sensible tone with foreign Powers. It was a pity, too, that he did not inform his yet more ambitious colleague, the President of the Board of Control, when he could not afford more troops, that he must not think of conquering fresh empires in India. The noble
 1154 1155 H. Herdinge 1156 1157 1158 1159 1160
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he had now got the report of the Committee to which he had referred, and he found that, though it confined rewards to officers on half-pay, there was an exception in favour of distinguished services, His conclusion had been formed from the mention of half-pay, that they should be held with half-pay, and not with full pay. If a different practice prevailed in the army, he should
 1174
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that Mr. Collins, of the War-Office, who had been examined in the Committee, to which the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) referred, had beaten the hon. Meaner in argument more than man had ever been beaten, and had showed the advantages, of the arrangement of 1822; With regard to brevets, since the peace, taking the officers on half-pay and on full pay, there had been a reduction of 7,168 commissioned officers, and a saving to the amount of 1,300,000 l.
 Sir H. Hardinge , in explanation, said, that the noble Lord had refused to state the amount of the military force at present stationed in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. This was where was the pinch of the question. He complained that the
 1173
 Sir H. Hardinge : I beg pardon; I said that the climate made the service miserable to men just arrived from the West Indies.
 Sir H. Hardinge  inquired whether the selection of the books would be uniform for the different regiments?
 Sir H. Hardinge  said he had heard nothing from the noble Lord which could induce him to change the course he had given notice that he should adopt, and if no larger force was to be employed, he must state his reasons to the House for thinking that force inadequate to the emergency in which the country was now placed. The army was now called upon for such services, that if not increased, those services must press with unusual severity on the soldiers, and knowing this, he felt it to be his duty to state it to the House. In entering upon this subject, he found himself compelled to go into details which, however tedious, were almost inseparable from the consideration of the army estimates. The course he should pursue was that of showing what the army now did, and by so doing to lay sufficient grounds for coming to the conclusion that the present force was wholly inadequate for the proper discharge of those duties. The noble Lord stated, that there was an increase in the land force establishment; but, in point of fact, there was no real augmentation. There was nothing more than an anticipation of the numbers requisite to meet the recruiting for the regiments abroad. The Duke of Wellington had laid down the principle, in 1829, that the best mode of saving expense was by suspending the recruiting; and in 1830 it was accordingly suspended, and a considerable reduction made in consequence. In 1831, 1832, and 1833, under Earl Grey's government, the recruiting department was increased to the establishment of 1829, but in 1834 it was again suspended by Lord Melbourne's government. Since that period the diminution had gone on increasing, and the recruiting had been suspended until the diminution of the forces in 1837 amounted to 8,036 men. In November, 1837, when the insurrection broke out in Canada, the army, was, therefore, 8,000 men below even the number of a peace establishment. In 1838 the noble Lord brought in an estimate to augment the army by the number of 2,000 men, owing to the civil war which had broken
 1129 1130 1131 1132 1133 1134 1135 Howick, "No! 1136 1137 1138 l. 1139 1140 1141 l. 1142 1143
 Sir H. Hardinge : Three to one greater, according to Lord Durham.
 Sir H. Hardinge : Four hundred miles of wilderness intervenes between New Brunswick and Canada.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that, as a Member of that Committee, he had suggested the addition in favour of officers of distinguished merit. It would be a great hardship upon an officer in the receipt of a reward of 200 l.
 Mr. Hume  here interrupted the noble Lord to remark, that the estimates of 1823 was 72,000 men, while that of the present year was 89,000.
 Mr. Hume  had no fear about India. There had been different statements published on this subject in the public papers, but he thought, that the advantage of a free press must not be denied, because both sides now and then fell into exaggeration. This was not the time for discussing the question of India, for they had only defective materials on which to ground their estimate of the present state of that country. It was impossible to say what turn affairs would take there on both sides of the Indus; but, if war were declared necessary, he certainly hoped it would be carried on with vigour. On that account it was, that he gave, and did now give, Lord Auckland great credit for assembling an overwhelming force for carrying into effect the diplomatic arrangements in which he had been recently engaged. Nothing was so likely to produce a speedy conclusion of that matter as the immediately assembling an army of 30,000 men; and of course with an alteration of the circumstances, that army was broken up. With respect to Canada, he was amused with the right hon. Gentleman opposite taking up the established principle of 1829 for the army, and he wished he had gone back to former years, to 1822, when the army was 71,000; 1823, when it was 72,000; 1824, when it was 76,000; 1825, when it was 86,000; and also to the next two years, when it was about the same number, all of which were below the present number. The arguments of the right hon. Gentleman did not in any way support the necessity of keeping
 1169 1170 1171
 Mr. Hume  objected to the large amount of the half-pay of general officers, and to brevets, which tended to increase that amount; and he referred to the arrangement respecting the dead weight in 1822, which he contended, had occasioned a serious loss to the country.
 Mr. Hume  admitted that there was a person who had made some statements in the Committee; but if those statements were examined, it would be found that they could not be maintained. He would prove hereafter, that whilst there were reduction in some departments, there had been an increase in others, so that the dead weight was still 5,000,000 l.
 Sir C. Adam  said, it was with extreme pain the Board of Admiralty had felt itself bound to read the report of the Committee in the terms, and to put the construction on it stated by-his hon. Friend near him (Mr. C. Wood). It was, however, with extreme satisfaction he had heard the, opinions which had been expressed by hon. Members opposite, and he not only should be glad to see Captain Napier's name restored, but that it should be done to-morrow.
 Sir De Lacy Evans  thought that the noble Lord had completely answered the statements of the right hon. Gentleman opposite. With regard to Canada, he (Sir De Lacy Evans) believed that at no period of our history had we there a force so large, so efficient, and so united as it was at present. And then everything in connexion with the present position of the United States was quite satisfactory, so that no serious consequences could be expected in that quarter. There was no sufficient ground for the alarm which the speech of the right hon. Baronet was calculated to create. With respect to Jamaica, he (Sir De Lacy Evans) saw no cause for apprehension there, and he was of opinion that, as far as concerned any attempt on the part of America, the Bermudas had a competent garrison. In India, too, there was little ground for fear, inasmuch as in the only country which war could be apprehended with, Burmah, a rebellion had broken out against the sovereign hostile to Great Britain. He deprecated anything like anticipating discussions on the military operations of our armies in the northeast of that country, and he would put it to the right hon. Baronet whether they were not more calculated to encourage than to repress the native princes opposed to us? There were no grounds for the right hon. Baronet's statement that an insurrection of the interior of India was to be looked for or apprehended. He concurred with the observations of the hon. Member for Kilkenny on the policy of reducing the force on the frontier of the United States contiguous to the disputed territory in New Brunswick, and he felt bound to say that there was not, in his opinion, any foundation for the general charge of inefficiency brought against the military force of the country.
 Sir G. Clerk  Said, that the officers of the navy were exposed to unequal hardship. In the army, if an officer had a staff situation, he could hold it with full pay; but if an officer of the navy was appointed to the command of a ship, it was only temporary, and he returned to half-pay without any reward. He regretted that honorary appointments were done away with, such as that of colonel of marines.
 Sir J. Graham  agreed with the hon. Member that the arrangement was an exceedingly bad one; but be had not had a doubt, at the time when the report was prepared, that, officers, if their services had been so distinguished as to entitle them lo rewards for merits, would hold them with full pay.
 Sir J. C. Hobhouse  said, that he did not wish to enter into the general subjects, which had been under debate this evening, but merely to say a few words in answer to what fell from the right hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite on the subject of the army in India. He was inclined to do so the more as the statements which he had on a former occasion made on this subject appeared to have been
 1166 1167 1168
 Viscount Howick  wished just to reply to the questions which had been put to him by his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny. He could not precisely state to what extent the rewards alluded to had been carried last year, but he could say that whenever a quarter mastership had become vacant, it had been filled up from the ranks. The vacancies of ensigncies had not always been supplied in, the same manner, though sometimes it had been the case, and every opportunity had been otherwise taken of promoting deserving men. With respect to the large proportion of officers to the number of men, he did not think his hon. Friend was correct, for he had referred to a return of the French army estimates for the year 1834, and found that in that army there were 10,979 officers to 238,533 men, being in the proportion of one to 21½ whilst in the English army in the present year there were 4,520 officers to 84,831 men, being about one to 18¾. The proportion certainly appeared to be less in France; but the cause was, that all the staff duty was done by the corps  d'etat major,
 Viscount Howick  thought there was a great and marked difference between the report of the Lieutenant-governor Sir Colin Campbell, that the men were in excellent order and the impressions which the remarks and statements of the right hon. Gentleman on the subject were calculated to convey. But this was not all; drafts of men to that regiment had gone out from this country some time ago. But the right hon. Gentleman asked, how could we take men from the West India Island? And he had asserted, that the troops in the West Indies required increase rather than diminution. Now, this he was
 1150 1151 1152 1153
 Viscount Howick  was not called upon to defend the arrangement of 1822, which he thought was a loan in disguise. The half-pay had, in fact, been reduced; and with respect to brevets, they were necessary, in order to bring on young general officers.
 Viscount Howick  said, his statement related exclusively to the infantry; and he was taking the actual number of men ordered to be kept up by the Government. In 1823, the number of men in India and the colonies was 38,700, at home 23,000, showing the proportion to be sixty-three per cent, abroad, and twenty-seven at home: In 1830, there were 41,440 in India, and the colonies, and 28,140 in this country; giving a proportion of sixty per cent. abroad and forty at home. In the present year the number abroad, including India was to be 47,000, at home, and coming home 29,137. The right hon. Gentleman he perceived objected to his including among the troops at home the regiments on their passage from foreign stations; but, at all events, for the purpose of the comparison he was now instituting, there could be no objection to the principle on which the statement was made, since it was the same for the present as for other years. In 1830, when the right hon. Gentleman was Secretary at War, and in the present year, the proportions of infantry of the line stationed at home and abroad were precisely the same. In each year the proportion abroad was sixty, that at home forty per cent. He thought this statement would show, that there was no such very greatly increased pressure of service on the infantry of the line as the right hon. Gentleman would lead the House to imagine. It was but fair to admit, however, that this statement must be received with some allowance, for it was perfectly true that although the per centage of the force at home and abroad, had not varied to the disadvantage of the army, the number of years for which the service of battalions abroad continued had been augmented. This effect had resulted from the establishment of the dépôt system, which had been only five years in operation in 1830. With a similar proportion of force abroad, no regiment had been so long abroad in 1830 as at present, and the regiments next for foreign service in that year had been a longer time at home than was
 1145 H. Hardinge 1146 1147
 Viscount Howick  said, the right hon. Gentleman had made a statement, which no doubt, deserved very serious attention and consideration. In endeavouring to meet that statement, he would first address himself to the particular points touched upon by the right hon. Gentleman, and then say a word upon the general principle involved in his remarks. The right hon. Gentleman had adverted to the pressure of the colonial service upon the infantry of the army. He had stated, most truly, that the important point to be considered was, the pressure upon the infantry of the line, since the pressure of the cavalry and guards could not be considered in any respect excessive. He (Lord Howick) agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, and he had himself stated to the House in former years, that the pressure of service on the infantry of the line was extremely severe; but he begged to observe, that the pressure at the present time, as shown by the proportions of troops stationed at home and abroad, was not greater than it had been at former periods. He would call the attention of the House to a statement of the proportion of infantry stationed at home and abroad in different years, which, anticipating this discussion, he had taken care to procure, and he could select those years which gave the clearest view of the average state. In 1820 there were, on the whole establishment of the army at home, 26,650 rank and file; abroad, including India 41,770; showing the proportion to be sixty-one per cent. abroad, and thirty-nine at home.
 1144
 Viscount Howick  knew that troops could not be sent from one to the other very easily; but he did say, that as Sir John Colborne had had opportunities of making his calculations for the purposes he had mentioned, he must, before he concentrated on Canada so large a portion of the disposable forces there on foot, have been aware what provision it was necessary to make, with a view to the security of New Brunswick. But he would say, that both with respect to what had fallen from the right hon. Officer in regard to New Brunswick and Nova Scotia,
 1149
 Viscount Howick  said, that if not a mistake or misquotation, it was at all events a very inaccurate statement on the part of the Earl of Durham. He was persuaded that it was far from being the fact. During the time of actual service, the Canadian militia were assuredly more expensive than regular troops of the same amount would be; but then it must be remembered, that the mere expense of transporting an equal number of troops across the Atlantic would be very large, and that when their service should have ceased to be necessary, they could not be pot clown and laid aside with the same ease, or at so small an expense as the colonial militia. He did not know whether it had been made public, but he knew from private intelligence that Sir John Colborne, in consequence of the comparatively tranquil aspect of affairs at present, had been enabled to put a part of these troops, he (Viscount Howick) believed it was Montreal, on what was there called a "sedentary footing;" that was to say, the men were only called out for drill on a single day in the week, and were only paid for that one day. It ought to be observed, therefore, that though the country was at a greater expense for the maintenance of these men while on actual service, than if the same number of troops of the line had been employed, yet that they saved the expense of raising these corps here, the expense of sending them across the Atlantic, and the expense of
 1148
 Viscount Howick  said, it was not proposed, that the libraries should be regimental, because that plan would involve considerable expense in removing it along with the regimental baggage. The better plan seemed to be to have fixed libraries in all the principal barracks, where the selection should be varied as much as possible, so that the troops changing in the course of service from one station to another, might take advantage of the variety. He had been in communication with some of the principal booksellers and publishers, who had very handsomely offered to make a considerable reduction in the retail price of the books which might be required for the purpose of establishing these libraries; in the meanwhile a good deal of detailed arrangement was necessary, and he hoped soon to be enabled to say, that the plan was ready to be carried into effect. With a view also, to maintain the discipline of the troops without resorting to flogging, the estimates contained a vote of 10,000 l. l., l. l., l. 1128
 Viscount Howick  then rose to make his statement upon the subject of the army estimates. He said, that in answer to a question put to him on a former evening by the right hon. Gentleman, he had stated, that he should this evening move for the remainder of the amount of the vote which he first moved, and he should, in accordance with the intention which he had expressed, proceed to make his general statement as to the difference which existed between the estimates he had this year the honour of laying on the Table of the House, and those which he had proposed on former years. Those hon. Gentlemen who were in the habit of attending to this subject, must be aware, that in a mere regimental establishment, there was little difference of importance between the estimates of this and any preceding years. The apparent change in the number of cavalry proposed, arose from the circumstance of a regiment of cavalry being ordered to India, in order to increase the establishment there; and in the same manner there was also an apparent increase in the Cape corps, which resulted from the transfer to the establishment of the corps, of so much as it has been found necessary to retain of the provincial force, which was raised during the Caffre war, and which has hitherto been provided for by a supplemental estimate. The charge for the increase of the regimental establishment would amount altogether to 29,700 l. 1121 l., l., 1122 1123 l., 1124 l. d. 1125 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. s. s. 1126 l. l., l., 1127
 Viscount Palmerston  could not find fault with the hon. Member who had just sat down for having stated his opinions. But, at the same time, he must say, he should entertain some doubt bow far the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman was calculated to afford any additional facilities for the settlement of this question; because, no doubt, horn a high sense of duty, he had made those statements; but when he knew, as everybody did, that questions of great importance to each country had been pending for now more than half a century, it might, he thought, be sufficient evidence that this question would not have remained unsettled so long if it had not been attended with great and inherent difficulties, and he doubted whether those inherent difficulties would be diminished by the tone of levity with which the hon. Gentleman had treated them, or by the opinions which he had expressed. He differed from the hon. Gentleman as to the opinion he had given of the nature of the claims of this country. Our claims had not been put forward by him nor by his predecessor,
 1161 1162 1163 primá facie 1164
 Mr. V. Harcourt  was of opinion, that the noble Lord in proposing this clause, would meet the wishes of all persons interested in the subject, as it had been found, that the dean of Exeter was also prebendary of. Exeter—a circumstance which had escaped the notice of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. He was not personally acquainted with Lord Wriothesley Russell, but the feeling which had been just evinced by the House clearly proved, that his general reputation, as glanced at by the, noble Lord, was fully borne out, and that there was no person better qualified to fill the deanery of Exeter. He felt, that the clause, even if it had an  ex post facto
 Mr. Wolverly Attwood  rose to call the attention of the House to the present inadequate rate of wages allowed to shipwrights in her Majesty's dock-yards, which was inferior to that paid in merchants' yards, and, consequently, the best men would necessarily prefer the private to the public service. Now it was of the highest importance that the public should have the benefit of the most skilful men in this department; it was as essential that the shipwrights should be of the first class as that the materials should be of the best quality, and the ships constructed upon the most perfect plan. While the present disproportion existed between the rate of pay given by the Government and that afforded by private individuals they could not hope to have in the dock-yards the superior description of artisans. In her Majesty's dock-yards there were two classes of men—three out of fifteen were appointed to the first class, and received 4 s. d. s. 1204 s. d. l. l. l. Mr. W. Attwood 1205
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not surprised that the hon. Member should have brought this subject forward. It had not escaped the attention of the Admiralty, by whom a representation had been made to the Treasury, which was still under consideration. Formerly there was a superannuated allowance not only for skilful workmen, but for ordinary labourers. That system was very properly altered. But it was another question, whether the superannuation allowance should be altogether done away with. It was a totally distinct and a very important question, whether it would not be proper to give a retired allowance to the skilled and experienced workmen, in order to secure a sufficient supply of such workmen in the public dock-yards. The Treasury were not indisposed to recommend that a just provision should be made as superannuation allowances, for those skilled and experienced workmen. It would be a very false economy if, by neglecting to make proper provision for such workmen, the public service should be deprived of their assistance. At the same time it should be recollected, that the benefit of the superannuation system was, that it would be an additional inducement to such workmen to remain in the public employment, and they could not expect the advantage both of increase derived from the fluctuations of wages in the private dock-yards, and the certainty of superannuated allowance. And it should also be considered, that men had many
 1206
 Mr. W. Attwood  was glad to hear from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the subject had been brought by the Admiralty under the consideration of the Treasury, and if he had been aware, that there had been any probability of a satisfactory answer being given to the application, he should have considered it inexpedient to bring the matter forward; he had only done it, however, after repeated applications, and after consultation with other Members connected with towns having dock-yards. He trusted, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer's liberality would induce him to do what was requisite to place the shipwrights in the dock-yards on a fair footing. But he must state, that a superannuation allowance alone would not be sufficient. It was necessary, that the pay also should be raised to at least 5 s. s. s. s. 1210
 Sir C. Adams  replied, that his noble Friend at the head of the Admiralty made it an uniform rule to consult the other Lords at the Board of Admiralty, and they gave him their best advice. His noble Friend spared no pains or trouble in the investigation of the claims of officers, and was solely influenced by the consideration of their merits. He would not say, that his noble Friend never promoted a friend—that would be absurd; and no one could expect that any person holding the appointment of his noble Friend would not occasionally serve a Friend. But this he would say at the same time, that there never was a man filling that high office who took more pains to make himself acquainted with the claims of officers, and to make merit the rule of his official conduct.
 Sir Charles Adams  remarked that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had not attended to what he had said. He had not stated that his noble Friend had ever officially served a friend. What he did say was, that his noble Friend had occasionally promoted a friend, and he defied any one to point out an instance where the officer promoted did not deserve it.
 Captain Boldero  rose to move an address for a copy of the order issued to the marines, obliging them to provide their, own great-coats. The Admiralty, she contended, had no right to sanction the deduction of a sum out of the pay of the marines for that purpose. There was regulation made which bore date the 20th of September, 1819, which had reference to the proper and sufficient clothing of the marines while doing duty on shore. According to this regulation, as he apprehended, they were entitled
 1182 l. l. 1183
 Lord Ashley  bore testimony to the excellent character, exemplary conduct, and high professional attainments of Lord Wriothesley Russell.
 Lord J. Russell  observed, he had no difficulty in answering the question. He had already said, that he would bring forward the motion referred to, the week after the recess, as it was necessary it should be disposed of at as early a day as possible. He would now fix it for Thursday, the 11th of April.
 Lord J. Russell,  in moving the Order of the Day for going into Committee on the Ecclesiastical Appointments Suspension Bill, observed, that although he stated the object of the clause he meant to introduce in giving notice of it the other evening, yet, as attacks had been made not only upon him, but upon a near relative of his, who, he thought, had been very unnecessarily brought into question, he felt that he should claim the indulgence of the House while he stated the fast respecting the proposal he had to make. It had been asserted that the object of the clause he was now going to in-
 1180 l. l. l. 1181 l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought, that the country were much indebted to the hon. Member for Greenwich for bringing this matter forward, for it was only when these suggestions were made in the House, that the right hon. Gentleman opposite came down and said, "Oh, we intended to do all this." But if the suggestions had not been made, they would not have heard one word from her Majesty's Government that any alteration was contemplated, nor would any alteration be made. He thought, that the higher officers were too well paid for the services they performed;
 1209
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that the principal reason of there being such a heavy stock of top-masts and spars on hand arose from the circumstance, that they were really using up the old stores, a great part of which had been in the yard for twenty years. These spars were useful for many purposes, and kept fresh for a great length of time; while it was difficult to get them of the best quality.
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, that the practice was not a new one, nor confined to the Admiralty. On the contrary, it had been a principle acted upon for upwards of twenty years in. all public offices, that no man should receive pension and pay at the same time. He was not prepared to introduce any measure to alter the rule in the present case. In his opinion, whatever objections might be urged against it, he thought that this rule had two good results of no slight importance. In the first place, it tended to keep up a reserve of seamen, upon which the service could draw in time of need; and, secondly, the existence of these pensioners served as an example and an inducement to other seamen to prefer the Queen's to the merchants' service. By a measure, however, which was passed a few years ago, it was provided that where pensioned seamen are called upon by proclamation to serve, they were to be allowed their pensions together with their pay.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that no part of his duty since entering office had been more puzzling to him than that which referred to the payment of the workmen in the dockyards. Previous to 1830, the work was done by task and job; but that system was totally set aside by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Pembroke, when First Lord of the Admiralty, who introduced day pay. At the same time it would be extremely unjust to Sir James Graham, if he did not state that the subject was pretty well considered at the time. Whether the information which the right hon. Baronet then received was correct or not as to the rate of wages paid to shipwrights in merchants' yards, he could not say. If the right hon. Baronet were present, he would, no doubt, have been able to satisfy the Committee upon that point. It appeared that he took the trouble to inquire of the principal shipbuilders in the River Thames, at Whitehaven, on the Tyne, and at Liverpool, and that he placed the daily wages of the men in the dock-yards at a rather higher rate than the average of the wages in all those places. One great difficulty attending the paying of all civil servants, unless they were paid by the job, was, that they must necessarily be paid in classes, and this was always to some extent a discouragement to the best workmen. But the Committee ought to bear in mind, that there were many privileges enjoyed by men working in the dockyards which those working in private shipyards did not enjoy. They had medical attendance when hurt, and half-pay during their cure besides superannua-
 1208
 Mr. C. Wood.  Sir E. Parry.
 Mr. C. Wood  replied he was not. Sir Edward Parry had the management of the whole of the packet service, including the repairs of the machinery; and visited the different stations when necessary. He had discharged the duties of his situation in a most efficient manner and without such assistance it would be impossible for the Board to fulfil the duties which devolved upon it.
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, that the document which he had read, was the best answer to the charge that the noble Lord had bestowed his official patronage in any other way than from a just consideration of the merits of officers.
 Mr. C. Wood  said that, with reference to the lieutenants who had been taken from the top of the list and placed on the list of commanders, they were perfectly aware of the effect of the arrangement, and they were offered that rank if they chose to accept it at the same pay.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, in answer to a question from Capt. Pechell, that he had stated a few evenings ago that he believed a pension was vacant. On inquiry he found
 1217
 Mr. C. Wood  replied, that with regard to Woolwich the great object which the Admiralty had in view was to form a yard there, for constructing steam engines for her Majesty's steam ships. The proximity of Woolwich to the best manufactories made it most desirable to form a concentrated establishment of that description, which would be found of great advantage to the public service. And in reference
 1213
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that he had no knowledge whatever of the proceedings of the commission to which the gallant Officer had alluded, and he thought it would be better to postpone saying anything further until the report of the Committee was on the Table of the House. As regarded the complaints which had been made by hon. Members at the manner in which promotions had taken place in the navy, he thought that there was no good reason for the remarks which had been made. The noble Lord at the head of the Admiralty had paid his utmost attention to investi-
 1215
 Mr. C. Wood  observed, that the hon. and gallant Member had given a very good reason for not complying with his own motion. He alleged, that the Admiralty had no authority for refusing the great coats; if so, how could they produce the order for which he moved. He did not expect, that the motion of the hon. and gallant Member would come on that evening, and he, therefore, could not say, that he was prepared to enter into the question at any length; but probably his hon. Friend near him would favour the House with his views of the question then under consideration. He should only observe, that it had been the invariable practice for marines to find their own great-coats, and the instances which the hon. and gallant Member opposite gave, were exceptions which only proved the rule. The establishment of perfect uniformity throughout every department of the public service would be almost impracticable and if practicable, would be unjust. Marines were for the most part employed at sea, and if uniformity were valued so highly, it should be recollected, that the seamen were not provided by the Government with great-coats.
 Mr. C. Wood  protested against being considered as admitting this complaint to originate in any grievance. At the same time, if it did, he was sure the Admiralty would be ready fully to inquire into it.
 Mr. C. Wood  moved that a sum of not less than £.113,924 be voted to Her Majesty for defraying the salaries of the officers and other expenses of the Admiralty-office.
 Mr. C. Wood  said the hon. Member was, to a considerable extent, misinformed in the statement he had made. It was perfectly true that the Hastings had carried her Majesty, Queen Adelaide, to Naples, and subsequently to Malta. Surely the hon. Member did not mean to object to a ship of war attending upon the Queen Dowager of England when she had occasion to go abroad. He could not believe it. However, the hon. Member was mistaken in thinking, as he seemed to do, that in sending out the Hastings they had a vessel the less for the defence of commerce; so far from that vessel not being made available as a ship of war, it had been employed since leaving England in several services, and services totally unconnected with the Queen Dowager. It would, however, return to this country with the Queen Dowager; and though during the period of the voyage, it of course could not be available to the public service, yet it would be immediately upon arriving in port here. The extent, therefore, of the withdrawal of the ship from the public service would be comprised in the periods of the passage out and the passage back. To this, he thought, no hon. Member could seriously object.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, the petty officers knew perfectly well at entering, what rating their ship was of, and, therefore, what pay they were entitled to receive. They had nothing to complain of. With respect to the concluding remarks of the hon. Baronet, he fully believed that the regulations of which he spoke gave the Admiralty full powers to make these alterations. So far, at least, it was clear that two successive boards of Admiralty had been of this opinion, and had acted upon it.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, the present was the first occasion on which the several items of the packet service had been given in the estimates in a distinct and separate shape. There could be no difficulty in giving the expense, but it must be broken up into details, which would be very unusual, and for which they were not prepared.
 Mr. Wood  said, that the subject had already received his attention, but that while the expense incurred on behalf of the public was considered, the health of the troops must also be remembered. The existing regulation was matter of economy in fact, for if a transport were employed the troops would be subjected to inconvenience and want of comfort; whereas when a troop ship was used they would be landed in good health, which was of the highest importance. A saving of time, and consequently of expense, was also effected; and while transports would not be entirely given up, it was thought exceedingly ad-
 1218
 Mr. Barnard  was glad to hear, that a superannuated allowance would be granted to able workmen in the public dock-yards—but he did not think this alone would do. He entirely concurred in what had fallen from his hon. Friend. He considered that job work was the life and soul of every business; and he hoped, that system would be adopted in the public dock-yards.
 Sir H. Hardinge,  bad always expressed the strong objection which he felt to discussions of that kind in the House of Commons. The army and the navy ought to look up to the Crown, and the Crown only—by no means to the House of Commons. The military force of the country should be the army of the Crown, and not the army of the Parliament. At the same
 1185
 Mr. Hume  wished, that there should be no distinction between the marines and the seamen on the one hand, and the infantry on the other.
 Mr. Hume  said, in No. 3, page 11, of the estimates for the Admiralty there was an expense of 950 l.
 Mr. Hume  insisted that he had heard no reason assigned why the people should find a line-of-battle ship to convey the Queen Dowager abroad. He must also refer to the charges for the packet service, which were made out in various different items scattered over upwards of 50 pages of the estimates. The whole amount was 173,623 l. 1202
 Mr. Hume  said the hon. Gentleman was very much mistaken, for he did object to it altogether. In his opinion, there could not be a more improper misapplication on the part of the officers of the Admiralty of the power placed in their hands. He did think that it was a very serious matter, when they heard of the ships of war of the country being every where inadequate to protect its commerce. He objected to make the public pay another 100,000 l.,
 Mr. Hume  wished to put a question to the hon. Secretary to the Admiralty. If he were rightly informed by the public prints, the Hastings, of 74 guns, had some time back been appropriated to attend upon the Queen Dowager on her way to Malta; it had, as he understood, proceeded to Lisbon and to various ports of the Mediterranean, and was now about to return again in attendance on the Queen Dowager in her journey home. He understood there was beside a steamer at her Majesty's disposal. Now, considering that her Majesty, the Queen Dowager, enjoyed an income of 100,000 l.,
 Mr. Hume  said, Sir Edward Parry was first appointed superintendent of packets, and then controller of steam machinery. He wished to know how it was possible that a captain in the navy could become fit to fill the situation of inspector and controller of steam-engines. In no other country, would they go to the army or navy for a man to fill such an appointment, but would appoint a man bred up to the profession: and, above all, no other country would give such a man a salary, more than was given to the best engineer that the country could afford. He thought, that a most distinguished engineer would have been selected; whereas, he appeared to be an officer of the Navy.
 Mr. Hume.  Is he an engineer?
 Mr. Hume,  it would be much better to buy these spars as they were wanted.
 Mr. Hume  said, that great complaints had been made of the reduction in the quantity of stores, but if the reduction had been made at the proper time, at the end of the war, many millions of the public money would have been saved. He had some years ago disputed this point with Mr. Croker, and he had then stated, that 22,000,000 l. l. l., 1211 No, no, It is true. 1212
 Mr. Hume  objected to the vote, and particularly to 25,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  stated, that he had strong objections to the principle involved in this vote. By the system of promotion in the naval service, we had 5,000 officers on half-pay, while we never had more than 700 actually employed. He should wish to have a return of the number of officers on half-pay, with a statement also of their respective number of years' service, that they might see the extent to which they were burdened with continued annuities. He regretted much to see old officers of long service passed over, and young men put over their heads. He had very strong objections to the system of promotion, and had documents to show the injustice of it, but seeing the thin state of the House, and the apathy evinced by hon. Members, for there had not been forty Members present almost since they commenced to debate these estimates, he really had no encouragement to enter upon any detail of the subject. He would, therefore, content himself for the present by protesting against the system of promotion adopted by the Admiralty.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the doctrine stated by the gallant Admiral was most startling. He thought, that the noble Lord, the Earl of Minto, held the high office of First Lord of the Admiralty to serve his country, but it seemed from what the gallant Admiral had said, that he held it only to serve his friends.—[Admiral  Adams 1216 l.
 Mr. T. Attwood  rose to move an address to her Majesty upon a subject which involved most intimately the safety and honour of the country. The other night he had the pain to hear all the dreadful anticipations he had formed fully confirmed. The hon. Secretary for the Admiralty had acknowledged that we were not in a condition to repel the Russians at sea, if they should think proper to attack us. The hon. Gentleman acknowledged that the Russians might do us much injury on the English coast. He believed the Russians might attack England next July if they pleased, and with much greater injury than the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty would allow. He would proceed at once to state the grounds of the fears he entertained, and the extent of the injury which he apprehended. It was acknowledged on all hands that the Russians had twenty-eight line-of-battle ships at Cronstadt, well-manned, well-equipped, and in all respects well-appointed. The gallant admiral commanding at Portsmouth, no doubt, had told them that when the Russian navy joined Lord Duncan before the battle of Camperdown, they were found totally inefficient. The gallant admiral had also told the House that the Russian fleet, when it was sold to Portugal, was found on passing the Bay of Biscay to be totally inefficient, and was in consequence obliged to be broken up. The times had, however, changed since then, and no one, he thought, would be found at present hardy enough to give a similar account of a Russian fleet now. Every naval officer with
 1187 1188 R. Peel E. Codrington E. Codrington. 1189 "We have a question affecting our honour to settle. It is true we have made a compact with you not to carry the war into the Mediterranean; but Russia is the guardian of her own honour. If a Russian ship is attacked by a Turkish ship, you cannot deny to Russia the right of acting in her own defence. We find the Pasha of Egypt is coming up with his fleet to assist the Sultan of Turkey, and we must be prepared to meet him; but to show you that we mean no insult to your great country, we give you a pledge that every English ship which is cleared out for Constantinople before the 28th of October, 1828, shall be allowed to enter this Dardanelles." Speaker, 1190 1191 clarum et venerabile nomen, 1192 1193 1194 mal-à-propos 1195 1196 bonne bouche. 1197 1198
 Mr. T. B. Hobhouse  was unwilling to allow the subject to be dropped without expressing the pleasure he felt at its having been mooted by the hon. Member; there was not one Member for a town having a dock-yard, that did not, like himself, wish to see the workmen adequately remunerated.
 Mr. Wakley  could not but admire the delicacy with which the noble Lord (Howick), the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty, and the hon. and gallant Officer opposite, contrived to dispose of this question. The army, said they, belonged to the Crown, and to the Crown must they look in all matters of this kind. But suppose the Crown acted unjustly and tyrannically, what then? There would be inquiry, perhaps, but no redress. He had frequently heard complaints made in that House, and substantiated, of the injustice which had been perpetrated both with respect to officers of the army and navy, but in no case had the grievance been redressed. He lamented to see the "ins" and "outs" hold together on such occasions, because they felt their own authority was impeached, and the manner in which they performed their executive functions. The noble Lord (Howick) was just going out of office, and the gallant Officer was about to succeed him ["No, no," and a laugh]; that was apparently the case, and for himself he wished to see
 1186
 Alderman Thompson  complained of the expense of fitting out old men-of-war as transports or troop ships. The expense was infinitely greater than that of hiring ships from private persons.
 Sir C. Adam  replied in the negative. The Hastings had been fitted to convey Lord Durham on a public mission, and the Queen Dowager went out in her, fitted as she was. Upon the Queen's arrival at Malta, the Hastings was employed in the public service, Sir Robert Stopford having sailed in her to Port Mahon, and to the coast of Spain. In fact, the Hastings had formed one of the squadron of ships which was intended to prevent
 1200
 Sir C. Adam  said, that with respect to the Cornwallis, if she had not gone, a fourth-rate must have gone, and the officers would not have been a bit better off. A principal reason for sending her out was, that in the then state of the West India islands, it was desirable to have a ship on the station capable of conveying a battalion at once from one island to the other. It was quite a mistake to suppose the officers had been unfairly dealt with; they had no less an amount of pay than they would have had in a fourth-rate.
 Sir C. Adam  did not think that a  primâ facie
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that the same thing was done when the hon. Baronet (Sir G. Clerk) was at the Admiralty, and that the flag-ship at Portsmouth was rated in this way.
 Sir E. Codrington  did not think it reasonable to object to the appropriation of a ship of war to such a purpose, but he thought that when her Majesty, Queen Victoria signified her pleasure that a ship of the line should wait the orders of her royal Relative, it ought to have been commissioned for the purpose.
 Sir E. Codrington  referred to the difference in the allowance to the lieutenant-governors of Greenwich and Chelsea hospitals. Both of the officers that held those appointments were very distinguished for their services; the lieutenant-governor of the former was Admiral Sir Jahleel Brenton, and of the latter was General Sir G. Walker. The advantages that the latter enjoyed over the former, however, were very considerable. Sir G. Walker was colonel of the 57th. regiment, and received emoluments from that and other sources; whereas Sir Jahleel Brenton was not allowed to receive his half-pay while he held the appointment. The duties of Greenwich also were much more onerous than those at Chelsea. For instance, the number of pensioners at Greenwich was 2,710, while only 500 resided at Chelsea. He understood that when Sir Jahleel Brenton accepted the appointment, he consented to give up his half-pay as rear-admiral; he, therefore, did not complain of this individual case, but he protested against such a difference in the system with respect to the two establishments. In almost every respect the advantage that military men enjoyed over naval officers was very great. He contended that there should be as nearly as possible an equality.
 Sir Edward Codrington  had on a previous occasion alluded to the hard case of the lieutenants. There were 300 lieutenants at the head of the list who were entitled to 7 s.
 Sir Edward Codrington  repeated his objections to the system of promotion in the navy; and as an instance of its unfairness, mentioned, that the First Lord had promoted the three sons of a captain now living, passing over the son of Captain Bathurst; and there was the son, also, of Admiral Brown, who had been a lieutenant now for ten or eleven years.
 Sir Edward Codrington,  on a former occasion, had taken occasion to contrast the remuneration paid to officers in the navy compared with those in the civil departments of the Government. When he looked at the question in that light it was not enough to say, that it was unjust to officers on half-pay, because it was not within the name of common justice. The officers on half-pay were most shamefully remunerated, for there was not one officer in any civil department of the State who did not receive double remuneration for half the same period of service. He did
 1214 l.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty had shown, that the First Lord of the Admiralty exercised an enormous amount of official and irresponsible patronage.
 Sir E. Codrington  observed, that he recollected a ship coming out when he was on service in the Mediterranean, and on examining her condition he found it necessary to condemn the whole of her spars and rigging. But the real thing wanted was to get the best seamen: they could easily obtain ships and stores provided they could procure able-bodied seamen.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that the able statement of the hon. Member (Mr. Attwood) had saved him the trouble of making any lengthened speech. He might however, say, that when the dock-yard shipwrights were discontented with their remuneration, they were told by the Admiralty, they might leave if they liked, thus adding insult to injury. By the system of classification at present adopted—by lot—the apprentice was often put over his master. Was that a proper arrangement? He was happy to find, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had intimated his willingness to do something towards removing that discontent which at present existed, and which would leave the dock-yards, perhaps, deserted just at the crisis when able workmen were most required.
 Sir T. Troubridge  stated the practice to be, that one coat was provided for the recruits upon entering the service, and for this reason, that they could not have any arrear of pay coming to them to meet such extra expense, It was a mistake, however, to suppose that the marines paid full value for their coats; on the contrary, they were furnished with them at a very reduced price. The complaint then made to the House was one which appeared to him to be perfectly new; he had
 1184
 Sir G. Clerk  said, the hon. Member for Kilkenny was, he believed, the only person in the country who would think of grudging the expense of a ship on such an occasion. With regard to another subject; the employment by the Board of Admiralty of certain line of battle ships of the third rate, and rating them as fourth rates—he begged to offer an observation or two to the House. He felt a very strong objection to the assumption by the Admiralty of the perfectly unconstitutional power, as he believed it to be, of altering in this manner the rates of pay, as fixed by the King in Council, of the officers and petty officers. He doubted whether, constitutionally, the Admiralty had any such power; and he also very much doubted whether the exercise of such power was not illegal; so that, if the officers chose to bring actions against the Admiralty, they would recover the difference of pay. The case of the Cornwallis was one in point; that vessel was a third rate, but was rated as a fourth, and the pay of the men and petty officers on board was altered accordingly. Since that, she had been again
 1201
 Sir G. Clerk  thought the House and the country were under great obligations to the hon. Member(Mr. W. Attwood) for bringing this subject before them; and it must be gratifying to find that measures were likely to be taken for removing the evils of the present system. He agreed with the hon. Member, that the pay of the shipwrights in the Government dock-yards was not sufficient to insure the services of the most efficient men. Shipwrights were a class of men requiring considerable instruction before they could perform their work well; and in proportion to the skill that was requisite, was the difficulty of obtaining men of that class. Nothing but high wages could secure their services. The work of a shipwright was of a very laborious description, and it was impossible to expect men working at inferior wages to exert themselves so much as they would, if they were paid in proportion to the labour they performed. The system of classification now adopted was most injudicious. At
 1207
 Sir George Clerk  confessed, that he felt strong objection to vote such sums for new works at Woolwich. He observed, that the estimates for Woolwich exceeded 60,000 l. l. l., l., l.
 Captain Pechell  complained that there was no half-pay to midshipmen. That numerous and most meritorious, but ill requited class of officers, placed a firm reliance in the proceedings of the military commission, to whom reference had been already made. He trusted that the hon. Member, the Secretary for the Admiralty, would give some assistance in the matter, and he begged to know whether Government would do anything for them?
 Captain Pechell  begged to draw the
 1203
 Captain Pechell  said, if the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) knew the circumstances of the case, he would be the last man to object to a ship of war accompanying the Queen Dowager on a voyage for the recovery of her health. The state of the fittings of the Royal Yachts rendered them unsuitable for such a service. It was only in a ship of war that accommodations were to be found adapted to a person in her Majesty's delicate condition of health.
 Sir R. Peel  begged to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary of state, in consequence of a regulation of the House respecting the fixing of notices, if he would place upon the notice book the day upon which he meant to bring, forward the motion of which he gave a general notice on Friday, and which had reference to recent proceedings in the other House of Parliament? It would be for the general convenience of the House if the noble Lord would intimate the day upon which he proposed to bring it forward.
 Viscount Howick  said, that in his opinion, the marines were in a situation superior to that in which the infantry were placed; the marines paid nothing for their rations when at sea, while the infantry generally paid. This question appeared to him one with which the House ought not to deal rashly or without full and minute examination, and he hoped, that the application then made would be refused. If there were any species of application worse than another, when addressed to that House, it was an application on behalf of a body of armed men. If the House once began to listen to such applications, it would be regarded as an encouragement, and he did not hesitate to say, that it would be fraught with great danger to the safety of the country. These were matters which ought to be left in the hands of the executive; he even considered, that the mere discussion of them in a popular assembly was not unattended with the possibility of dangerous results.
 Sir H. Vivian  regretted, that on account of indisposition, it would not be in his power to go into the subject of the Ordnance estimates so fully as he could have wished; he hoped, however, that the indulgent consideration of the House would not attribute any deficiency which might appear in his statement to a want of proper attention on the part of the Board. It was fortunately the less necessary for him to enter into much lengthened explanation, because the estimates themselves ever since the Duke of Wellington had
 1231 l. l. l. l. 1232 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1233 l. l. l. l. 1234 l. l. l. l. l.
 Colonel Anson  said, the charge for admission to the Tower was very small, being only one shilling; but he should be very happy to see all fees for admittance to the Tower and similar buildings, abolished.
 Sir Hussey Vivian  said, the increase to which the hon. Member alluded, arose from additional pay being allowed to medical officers for length of service. The increased allowance did not, however, extend to assistant surgeons. He thought there were great objections to throwing open such a place as the Tower, containing 100,000 stand of flinted arms, to the public indiscriminately.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was the wish of the Government to give every facility to the public to view every object of interest over which the Government had any control.
 The Chairman  said, these were attacks which ought not to be made; he very much lamented that this conversation had ensued.
 Captain Boldero  wished to know if the
 1238 l.
 Colonel Thomas  had not reflected, either personally on Sir H. Vivian, or on his department. What he had stated was the fact—that the barracks were in a disgraceful state, and had not been painted for years. He (Colonel Thomas) understood from the gallant officer of the district, that so far from not having made any complaints, he had written as many reports respecting the state of the barracks as would fill a room.
 Colonel Thomas  complained of the state in which the barracks were. They had not been painted in many cases for several years—they were a disgrace to the country. He was surprised to find the hon. Member for Kilkenny who had amassed a large fortune in India by supplying rations to the army, getting up night after night in the House and opposing every measure that would tend to the comfort and convenience of the soldier.
 Colonel Thomas  said, that the circumstance to which he alluded was well known. The hon. Gentleman had been an assistant surgeon, and afterwards appointed commissary. [Mr.  Hume
 Lord G. Somerset  presented a petition from a great number of ware house men and others connected with the conveyance of goods from London to Birmingham and Manchester and other places. One of the petitioners had carried on the trade of carrier for twenty-six years, and another for forty years. The petition stated, that soon after the opening of the London and Birmingham Railway, applications had been made by several of the petitioners to the company, for the purpose of having their goods conveyed by the railway, but the answer which they received was, that the company had no means upon their line of conveying the goods. The petition went on to state, that other parties, however, also carriers, had their goods carried by
 1221 mandamus mandamus
 Lord G. Somerset  then moved for a return of all sums of money raiseable by railway companies, distinguishing the sums to be raised by subscription from those to
 1222
 Lord G. Somerset  begged to know if the noble Lord had yet made up his mind as to the course he should pursue with regard to the Poor-law Act; whether it was his intention to propose simply the renewal of the act, or to introduce any alterations respecting the powers of the commissioners and the objectionable clauses—those relating to illegitimate children.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he intended to bring in a bill in the couse of the present Session, by which he proposed to renew the powers of the commissioners, and to adopt some of the recommendations of the Poor-law Committee which sat last year. The bill would likewise give powers to the commissioners respecting unions formed under what was called Gilbert's Act; but it would not give them powers respecting parishes under local acts. He would also introduce other provisions in the bill, but not any alteration on the subject of the bastardy clauses. If he should hereafter deem such to be necessary, he would make it the subject of a separate bill.
 Mr. C. Buller  wished to make a remark on a misinterpretation which had been put on some observations he had made the other night, which it had been said were calculated to have a bad effect on the settlement of the question. All he had intended by his remark was to press upon the House his conviction that Great Britain ought to abandon the untenable line, and take that which was in accordance with justice; by doing which she would gain more undisputedly than by attempting to maintain the other by force
 1226
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, he intended on the first Thursday after the recess, if he had an opportunity, to move for the appointment of a committee upon the subject, not with the intention of taking at present any ulterior measures upon the subject of railroads, but because the state of feeling of the House and of the public generally was such as to render some inquiry upon the subject necessary. Railway companies had, under the acts by which they were incorporated, been invested with very great powers; perhaps those powers might, in some respects, be for the advantage of the public, but they were also capable of being converted into an injurious monopoly.
 Mr. Labouchere  replied, that the last time this subject had been brought under his notice in that House, he stated, that Sir G. Arthur, upon receiving intelligence of the transaction, had called upon Colonel Prince for an explanation. Since then that explanation had been received by Sir G. Arthur, but had not been considered by him satisfactory. The consequence of which was, that a court of inquiry had been constituted, witnesses would be
 1223
 Mr. Briscoe  condemned the principle of compelling the public to pay 1 s.
 Mr. Hume  would give a flat denial to the statement of the gallant Officer opposite that he was in the habit of opposing every measure that was brought forward for the good of the army—it was utterly untrue; he had never opposed any measure calculated to attain that object. No man in the House had done more to improve the condition of the private soldier than he had done; he would merely allude to his attempts to do away with the punishment of flogging. With regard to what had taken place in India, the gallant Officer had been talking on a subject about which he could know nothing. His statements were utterly untrue. The gallant Officer had uttered falsehoods in that House. He had talked about his feeding the troops, what did he mean by speaking on such subjects? He had never done anything in his life that he was not proud of, and therefore he called upon the hon. and gallant Officer to state what he meant by such an unwarrantable attack to which he had
 1237
 Mr. Hume  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, to whom he had given a statement respecting Colonel Prince, alleging that that officer had shot, without trial, a number of prisoners who had been brought in by the Indians. He wished to know whether any information had been received at the Colonial-office on the subject.
 Mr. Hume  complimented the right hon. and gallant Officer upon the clear manner in which the Ordnance estimates were this year drawn up. Considering the circumstances under which the estimates for the army and navy had been voted this year, it did not appear to him right to detain the House, as it would otherwise have been his duty to do, upon these estimates. After we had determined to employ a certain number of men in the army and in the navy, we were bound to supply them with all they required to make their service effective. Considering, also, how necessary it was to provide for the efficiency of the Royal Artillery, he should not object to the present vote. Though these estimates were, in his opinion, double what they ought to be in time of peace, yet they were not out of proportion to the number of men voted. Our engineers might vie with those of any service in Europe, and yet, strange to say, there was nothing like the same proportion of engineer officers on the staff of the army in our service, that there was in the army of every other
 1235
 Mr. Hume  thought, the charges made for the admission of the public to the Tower and other public buildings should be discontinued.
 Mr. Wakley  said, the fee of one shilling was large or small, according to the means of the individual paying it. A shilling was of more importance to a poor man who earned but 12 s. s. l. l. 1236
 Sir C. Grey  did not intend to renew the notice which he had on the paper a few evenings ago. He contended, however, that it was open to every Member of that House to express his opinion on the subject of the correspondence between this country and America, which was laid on the Table of the House last year by the noble Lord; and he was surprised to perceive that newspapers of this country seemed to be of a different opinion. If it was not intended that hon. Members should express their opinions upon such documents, for what purpose were they laid before the House? When the reference was made to the King of the Netherlands he gave it as his opinion, that neither the line claimed on the one hand by Great Britain, nor on the other, that which the United States asserted to be the limits of her territory, did in truth constitute the true boundary. He affirmed, that neither line could be said to answer to the terms of the treaty, and that the matter in dispute must be arranged by adopting an intermediate boundary, or by a cession of territory on the one side, or on the other. Now, he (Sir Charles Grey) was desirous of having laid on the Table of the House, Mitchell's map, which bore date in the year 1755; and he was the more anxious on this account, that he desired to prevent its being confounded in the minds of Members with any more recent map; for as he was prepared to contend, that map, and that only, showed the true line. He had heard—not certainly from any source that he could call an authority—but he had heard, that there was no such map. If that happened to be the case, his purpose would still be in some degree, answered by calling the attention of the House to the fourth article of the treaty. He believed, that the map itself, or a French edition of it, dated in 1756, might be seen at the British museum. There was another map, of which a lithographic sketch had during the last year been laid before the House in connection with papers upon the subject of our North American possessions, and those two, namely Mitchell's map and the sketch he had just mentioned, were according to the convention of 1829, the only maps which were to guide the proceedings of the par-
 1227
 Sir C. Grey  was sorry on so important a question the attention of the right hon. Baronet had been so distracted. He had never said the map was not in existence, and any hon. Gentleman who went to the British Museum could see it there in eight sheets. He felt he had done his duty in calling the attention of the Foreign-office to it, being quite sure, that if it was discovered to be useful there would be no objection to produce it.
 Sir E. Codrington  begged to avail himself of that opportunity to make some observations in reply to what had been stated the other night by the hon. Member for Birmingham, with reference to his conduct while commanding the Mediterranean squadron at the battle of Navarino. He was sorry now to be obliged to trespass on the attention of the House; but the hon. Member's motion not having been seconded, he was prevented at the time from making those remarks which, in justice to his own character and the position he had occupied, he thought it but fair to offer. The hon. Member stated, that he had on the occasion alluded to an order in his pocket to pass the Dardanelles; if he had possessed any such order, his conduct must have appeared very inconsistent; but he had no such authority, although certainly it would have been the means of avoiding many of the difficulties which had since occurred. The hon. Member had also made some observations on the conduct of Russia, which, knowing the facts of the case, he felt himself bound to contradict. It had been said, that the present state of affairs in the Mediterranean was mainly attributable to the Whigs; in his opinion, the Tories were more to blame than the Whigs, but both in fact were implicated. He had stated in the Mediterranean, and he repeated now, that if Mr. Canning had lived to carry out the view he originally took of the treaty of Akerman, no difficulty would have occurred, and Russia never would have gone to war with the Porte. It was the different view taken of that treaty by Mr. Canning's successor in office—it was the use of that fatal word "untoward," which gave rise to all the difficulty. That word "untoward" led Turkey to believe that the alliance was at an end, that France and England were of different opinions, and that Russia would be left to take her own course. The consequence was, the Turks, to insure the execution of the treaty of Akerman, forced Russia into a war, that led to her aggrandizement, for when she did go to war, of course she had a right to do the best for herself she could. When Turkey looked to England for assistance against Mehemet Ali, what was our situation? He was then in command of the squadron, and he would say this—had they had five more
 1230
 Sir R. H. Vivian  said, if the barracks were in a disgraceful state, the hon. and gallant Member was himself to blame. When he had first become Ordnance Master he had sent a circular round, in 1836, to the barrack-masters, ordering everything to be prepared for the comfort of the troops, and ordering anything that was wanted to be stated; and therefore, if there was any want, those who had command of the barracks were the persons to blame, and not the Ordnance Department. If complaints had been made in the proper quarter, they would have been attended to directly.
 Sir R. Peel.  I did not see the signs. If the map mentioned were the real map, the production of it could do no harm, but might do good.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that as the gallant officer had thought it necessary to introduce this subject, he might also take occasion to observe, that in the speech by which the hon. Member for Birmingham prefaced his unseconded motion, not a few hard words had been applied to him; but even if that motion had been seconded, he did not know that he should have felt called on to give any reply. There was throughout an utter oblivion of dates, a total confusion and misstatement of facts. He was charged, for instance, with being a party reponsible for the proceedings of a Government with which he had not acted; so that if he had been called on, he really did not know how he should have been able to reply to such a speech. In fact, the only construction he could put on it was, not that any real alarm existed, even in the mind of the hon. Gentleman, with respect to the state of our national defence, but that so great was his attachment to irredeemable paper, so urgent his anxiety for an issue of one pound notes, that he was perfectly ready to risk all the consequences of any war, however detrimental to the interests of the country, provided only it might lead to the adoption of his favourite monetary panacea.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that as Parliament was now about to adjourn for several days, be did not regret, that some hon. Member should have thought it right to make inquiries of her Majesty's Government on the great question of the disputed boundary between our North American posessions and the United States. He was sure the House would agree with him in thinking, that upon the present occasion the right hon. Gentleman who put those questions had done so in a temper which showed no inclination to throw any impediments in the way of bringing the matters in dispute to a satisfactory conclusion. No one could feel more fully than he (Sir R. Peel) did, the inconvenience which must arise to any Government from a premature demand for papers, or from entering into any discussion respecting the course, which, at a moment like the present, they intended to adopt; for he felt, that in making their defence upon any charges which might be brought against them, Ministers would labour under the disadvantage of not being able to produce all the documents, that might be necessary, lest their disclosure should be prejudicial to the public service; he should, therefore not pursue the matter further than to say, that he fully reserved to himself the right of hereafter discussing whether her Majesty's Government, after rejecting the award of the King of Holland, and after having discovered, that our Canadian subjects had been exposed to apprehension and to danger—he repeated, he should claim for himself, at a future time, the right to consider whether the responsible advisers of the Crown had shown sufficient energy and decision in their attempt to bring this matter to an issue. Limiting himself, then, for the present, to this single remark, he could not at the same time help saying, that if there were any document which could possibly be called for, and the production of which was not liable to be objected to on the part of the Government, as raising any impediment in the way of a satisfactory settlement, he confessed he should have thought, that that document was an old
 1228
 Sir S. Canning  begged leave to address a few observations to the House upon a subject of great national importance—he meant the state of our relations with the United States of America. He thought, that hon. Gentlemen would feel that it would not be satisfactory to the country, that it would scarcely be decent, he might say, if that House were to adjourn for the holidays without an opportunity being afforded to her Majesty's Ministers of making, as far as circumstances would permit, some statement of the position in which we stand towards that power at the present moment. If the present circumstances of the country were of an ordinary character, the House might, perhaps, be satisfied to trust to the discretion of her Majesty's Ministers. But he must say, looking back to the transactions of the last few years, that he saw little reason to induce the House to count upon the energy, the decision, or even upon the discretion of their counsels respecting foreign affairs. By the accounts which had been received within the last few days, it appeared that the transaction which had lately occurred on the borders of the state of Maine had been taken up with a very strong and decided national spirit in the Congress of the United States; that the negotiations, which he understood from the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Department to have been set on foot, had been suspended, but that there was some reason to suppose, although there were doubts upon the subject, that a plenipotentiary would be sent from America to this country to resume those negotiations for the adjustment of the boundary question. The country was aware, that on one side an official statement had been made that the Lieutenant-Governor of New Brunswick was acting under instructions which imposed upon him the necessity of maintaining, if necessary, by military force, exclusive jurisdiction over the disputed territory; and that, on the other side, it was said, that a docu-
 1224
 Viscount Howick  said, the marines were not subject to any disadvantage. The disadvantage was the other way; they were a favoured branch of the service. He thought these comparisons between the pay of different branches of the service ought not to be made without extreme caution, and certainly not without a more accurate knowledge of facts, than the hon. and gallant officer had shown.
 Viscount Palmerston  quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that this was a question of the utmost delicacy and importance. He, therefore, trusted the House would excuse him if he declined to avail himself of the opportunity thus afforded him of entering into a full explanation with respect to the present state of these matters. He thought the answer which he should give to the first question would sufficiently account to the House for the reserve which he felt it his duty to maintain. The right hon. Gentleman asked whether her Majesty's Government had received any acccount of
 1225
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that he understood his right hon. and learned Friend to express a wish that the map in question should be laid on the Table of the House, but at the same time to express some doubts as to its existence. He understood him, further, as not urgently pressing for the production of the map, but rather leaving it to him (Lord Palmerston) to make inquiry on the subject, and bring forward the map if it could conveniently be had. To this he had assented, as they sometimes did in that House, by signs, and it therefore became unnecessary, as he thought, that there should be any motion on the subject.
 Lord John Russell  replied, that in the early part of the evening an hon. Friend of his had moved for a copy of a letter on this subject from him to the various Lords-lieutenant of the several counties; when this letter was laid on the Table, he trusted that the hon. Gentleman would find a satisfactory answer to his question.
 Colonel Sibthorp  wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, whether there was any truth in the statements that were made as to a great number of pikes having been made in various parts of the country, and that they had been distributed in the provinces, more especially in the vicinity of Manchester. He wished to know whether the Government was aware, that there was any truth in the statement, and also, whether the noble Lord intended to take any steps in the matter.
 Sir W. Molesworth  said, that in the documents laid on the Table reference was made to instructions, that were to be sent out to Mr. Fox, in compliance with terms of a note to the American minister (Mr. Forsyth), for the purpose of forming a joint commission for the survey and exploration of the disputed territory. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether he could state the precise period when Mr. Fox received those instructions; and, secondly, he wished to know if the American government agreed to the commission for the survey of this territory, and whether Mr. Fox had received instructions as to the nomination of the commissioners?
 Viscount Palmerston  believed, that there was every disposition on the part of both governments to form a joint commission, for the purpose of seeing whether they could settle the boundary line in conformity with the treaty of 1783. He had very recently sent out to Mr. Fox a draft of a convention for this purpose. If this were agreed to and settled, the nomination of the commissioners would not rest with Mr. Fox, but the appointments would be made by her Majesty's Government. When, however, the transaction was concluded, either by the acceptance or the rejection of the convention, he would lay the correspondence before the House.
 Lord Stanley  should not have risen to address the House but for some observations which had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman. He, for the sake of the Government itself—for the sake of the credit of the country—did entertain an earnest hope that, if this bill should pass, her Majesty's Government would be able to satisfy the House and the country that nothing had led to it but such an overwhelming necessity as it was not in their power to control or resist; and that it could not have been avoided by a more conciliatory and temperate line of conduct than that which had been adopted. His right hon. Friend, the late Under Secretary and his right hon. Friend the present Under Secretary for the Colonies, had both most studiously disclaimed any intention hostile to the planters, They repudiated the hint thrown out by his right hon. Friend, the Member for Tam-worth, that, looking at the documents and proceedings of Government, it seemed as if Ministers were rather anxious to seize on some pretext for getting rid of a troublesome House of Assembly. It might be well to resist the insinuation if it rested merely with his right hon. Friend, but what said the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down? Did he rest his attack on the late conduct of the House of Assembly? No; he spoke about the brown people, and stated that he had foreseen so far back as 1824 that the House of Assembly, as at present constituted, could do nothing for the benefit of the black population. It was for this reason that the hon. and learned Gentleman was anxious for this bill. The House had to consider two questions with reference to this measure—first, whether the necessity for it was absolute, and that by it alone could the necessary objects be effected; and next, if this necessity did exist, whether Government was not to blame for bringing the colony into such a condition. The hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down said that the House of Assembly had no reason for the improvident part taken by it in the Session of 1838.
 Lord Stanley  did not wish to misrepresent the hon. and learned Gentleman, but he had certainly understood him to say that there had been no necessity for the conduct of the Assembly.
 Lord Stanley  agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman so far as to think that the Jamaica Legislature considered itself placed in such a difficulty by the passing of the Act as rendered immediate and total emancipation necessary; but the hon. and learned Member said that there was no compulsion. He begged to call the attention pf the House to one or two passages in the governor's speech. The hop, and learned Member had stated that in the speech no mention was made of abolition. He should have liked the speech better if mention had been made of it. He thought a temperate statement should have been made of the extent to which Parliament had interfered, and what was the necessity for that interference. But what did the speech say? Sir Lionel said, "I need not refer you to the agitation going on throughout the empire; an agitation which makes the honourable efforts of Ministers barely sufficient to preserve a law in which the national faith is concerned. I am afraid that parliamentary interference in your affairs is not yet terminated, and as Governor I shall not shrink from stating my conviction that it will be physically impossible to maintain the apprenticeship system much longer with any hope of success. Why, if any one form of language more than another could express compulsion, it was that under which the House of Assembly had passed the Abolition Act. But what he blamed the Government for was this, that until driven to it by public clamour, they had no intention of recommending total abolition in 1838. They were driven to that recommendation, and when driven to it, it was their duty to originate measures to meet the necessities of immediate emancipation. Instead of this they studiously kept the Colonial Legislature unprepared, and when they did call on them to act under such pressure as the language pf Sir Lionel Smith shewed, they had none of the measures which ought to have accompanied that call in readiness, although knowing that the ruin of the island would be consequent on their neglect. The hon. and learned Gentleman had spoken of the ne-
 1294 G. 1295 Grey: 1296 1297
 Lord John Russell : After what the noble Lord has said, I think it necessary, before this debate closes, to say a few words on the subject of this measure, and to point out what I consider to be the real question for our consideration. The noble Lord has not, I think, correctly represented the course pursued by her Majesty's Government. The noble Lord said, that the abolition of the apprenticeship system had been forced on, and forwarded by, the agitation and excitement which existed here on the subject, and the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge, who spoke early in the debate, spoke almost as if we had begun the agitation on this subject, with a view of putting an end to the apprenticeship. Now, the view which had been taken by her Majesty's Government—a view which they supported both in that House and elsewhere—was, that although it was desirable to put an earlier termination to the apprenticeship system than was originally contemplated, they could not, with propriety, do so without consulting the Assembly of Jamaica on the subject, and that it would be more properly terminated by an Act of that Assembly than by any Act passed here. That, Sir, was the opinion which we maintained in this House, an opinion which, at the time, subjected us to considerable odium and unpopularity, and which was opposed by several Members on that side of the House as well as this, who were inclined to take the more popular side of the question, viz., that without further delay, the apprenticeship system ought to be put an end to by the aid of the British Legislature. Such, however, was not our view, and we contended against that conclusion. We would not interfere with the West India Legislature, and in consequence we subjected ourselves to a great deal of unpopularity in this country. But this is not the question at present in debate. The Act on which the Legislative Assembly of Jamaica has founded its protest is an entirely different one. It is an Act that was thought necessary for us to pass in consequence of the conduct both of the Legislature and of individuals in Jamaica, which prove that the Acts of Emancipation were most grossly evaded, and that those called apprentices, whom my noble Friend, by his bill, proposed to redeem from slavery, and place in an intermediate state during their progress to complete
 1299 Goulburn: Goulburn: 1300 Stanley: 1301
 Mr. Hawes  said, that to the motion of the hon. Member the President of the Board of Trade, he should under ordinary circumstances have given his support, and he was rather surprised at the statements made by the hon. Member opposite. He was informed, that the bill was strictly a money bill, but the hon. Member had certainly pointed out clauses inconsistent with that object. He was informed by the agent and solicitor for the bill, that not one of those clauses of which the hon. Member had complained, had been introduced by the promoters of the bill; and, on the contrary, they were considered hostile to the interests of the company, and had been forced upon them by authority in another place. It was well known, that a noble Lord in another place exercised a sort of jurisdiction (he would admit a most advantageous one to the public in general), and these clauses had been introduced by his authority. The bill was, therefore, strictly a bill for raising a further sum of money, and he was authorized to state, that great public as well as private inconvenience would be the result if any material delay took place. He could not agree with his right hon. Friend in his system of  ex post facto
 Mr. Hawes  would move as an amendment, that the report on the Great Western Railway Bill do form an exception to the motion then before the House.
 Mr. Hawes  finding the sense of the House to be against him, would not put them to the trouble of dividing.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that if the House adopted the amendment then proposed by the hon. Member for Lambeth, he should not think it expedient to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice for a select committee. In the event of the amendment being successful, he should abandon all hope of doing the least service by means of a select committee. At the present moment they had certain railway bills before them. Let them permit the present opportunity to pass away, then indeed the proceeding would be in the nature of an  ex post facto
 Mr. P. Thomson  on the order of the day for the further consideration of the report on the Great Western Railway Bill, said, that he should now submit to the House the motion of which he had given notice. He at the same time wished to say, that he intended the day after to-morrow to move for a select Committee to inquire into and report upon the subject of railway bills generally, and until that should be disposed of, he thought it best that no further progress be made with railway bills. He should therefore, move, that the further consideration of the report on any railway bill be not entertained before Tuesday, the 23d of April. In his opinion the delay of this additional week could not produce any material inconvenience, and he hoped, that the House would agree to it.
 Mr. Charles Wood  moved the third reading of the Ecclesiastical Appointments Suspension Bill, and stated, that he wished to propose an alteration in the clause which had been moved and adopted on a former occasion relative to the deanery of Exeter.
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, that this was the case: but his hon. Friend was probably absent from the House when the clause itself had been introduced, otherwise he could not have forgotten, that his
 1304
 Mr. Harvey  took that opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the general subject of inclosure bills. One could not read the different bills of this description which were brought before the House without being struck with the discrepancies between them. In some Acts the whole quantity of waste land which was to be inclosed was stated, while in others no such statement was to be found. The quantity of land, too, proposed to be set apart for the recreation of the people of the district, was very various in different bills, and was, in fact, subject to no general rule, and, he believed, in no case exceeded ten acres. Now, it was very important to the House to know the quantity of land proposed to be inclosed, and the quantity intended to be reserved for the purpose of affording recreation, in order to judge of the proportion which the one bore to the other. In some bills, the lord of the manor received one-twentieth of the inclosed land as a compensation for his rights, in others only one-seventeenth where the circumstances were precisely the same. In many bills there was no provision for the inclosure of the portion set apart for the public, although in some bills then before him, the expense of inclosing the land allotted to the clergy in respect of tithe, was to be defrayed out of the funds in the hands of the commissioners. He suggested it would
 1241
 Mr. Darby  considered the loss was occasioned by the bad description of ships employed in the timber trade with America. Old ships set off from the American coast heavily loaded with timber, and it could not be denied that there was great loss of life and property in consequence. He should therefore support the motion.
 Mr. G. Palmer  was happy to be able to state, that the motion which he intended to make, relative to the shipwreck of timber ships trading between this country and America, had the full approbation of the right hon. Gentleman opposite the President of the Board of Trade. The subject was one of very great importance, and the object of his motion was, to ascertain whether it were possible to reduce the yearly number of shipwrecks, by the adoption of some system of regulation, and to mitigate in some degree, the sufferings to which the crews were exposed. It was not his intention to go into the question at any length, but he might be allowed to state to the House, that in the year 1834 there were four timber ships wrecked on the rocks or coasts of this country or America, and seventeen more in the open sea. In 1835 there were fifteen timber ships wrecked on the rocks or coasts; thirty-four more in the open sea, and out of that number there were no less than sixteen vessels of which there was no account of the crews having been saved. In 1836 the number wrecked on the coasts was twenty-four, in the open sea forty-four, and of these there were sixteen of which there was no account of the crew. In 1837 the number wrecked on the coasts was seven; in the open sea, twenty-three; and of fifteen of those there was no account of the crew. In 1838 the wrecks on the coast amounted to sixteen; in the open sea forty-five; and out of that number there were twenty-six, of which there was no account of the crews. The loss of property, therefore, was very great; but the sufferings endured by the crews of those vessels lost in the open sea were of the most heart-rending description. It was well known that timber vessels did not sink immediately, like other ships, when overturned, and the crews frequently
 1303
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the right hon. Gentleman opposite had so obscurely shadowed out the details of the measure he proposed to introduce, that however he might feel that an emergency had arisen requiring that some measures should be taken for the better government of an important colony of the empire, he should not avail himself of this opportunity of discussing at large the various important questions touched upon by the right hon. Gentleman. He should, before offering any opinion, prefer seeing in all its details the measure by which the government of the colony was hereafter to be regulated, that he might be enabled to judge how far it was calculated to answer the purposes of wise or useful legislation. But, though he did not mean on the present occasion to offer any opposition to the introduction of this Bill, he must beg leave to reserve to himself the fullest right of discussing all the topics upon which the right hon. Gentleman had entered, and also those which he had avoided—of inquiring, on the one hand, whether there had been an offence in the conduct of the assembly, and on the other hand, how far that conduct might have been occasioned by the policy of the Government in this country. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that this was a
 1262 1263 1264 1265 1266 1267
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill to suspend the existing constitution of the island of Jamaica, and to provide for the temporary government of that colony, he felt fully conscious that he had undertaken no light task, and that he had to bring under their consideration no ordinary measure. He felt completely aware, that to bring forward any proposition, the object of which was to abrogate even for a season that form of government by three estates, for which Englishmen entertained such deep and such just respect, was a proceeding of the very gravest kind; it certainly was one which he could not approach without feelings of the greatest reluctance. It was one which the responsible advisers of the Crown could not sanction without experiencing much pain, and bestowing upon the subject much reflection. It was one to which he trusted the House would direct its serious and undivided attention, for although the statements which he should have to
 1244 1245 "The House would have been ready now, as they ever have been, to give their consideration to every matter submitted to them for promoting the public welfare of the colony; but, having taken into their mature consideration the aggressions which the British Parliament continue to make on the rights of the people of this colony, and the confusion and mischief which must result from the present anomalous system of government, they have come to the determination that they will best consult their own honour, the rights of their constituents, and the peace and well-being of the colony, by abstaining from the exercise of any legislative function, except such as may be necessary to preserve inviolate the faith of the island with the public creditor, until they shall he left to the free exercise of their inherent rights as British subjects." "It will be my duty to lay before you various communications from her Majesty's Government, explanatory of the grounds upon which her Majesty, in the exercise of her prerogative, has been pleased to disallow certain laws of the island, and conveying her Majesty's recommendation, that provision should be made by the Colonial Legislature for the introduction of several measures of vital interest to all classes of her Majesty's subjects in Jamaica, amongst which, are included those having for their objects the prevention of vagrancy, the better regulating the relative rights and duties of masters and servants in husbandry or other kind of handicraft, the determining the qualification of electors, the regulation of a militia, and the preventing the unauthorised occupation of lands, belonging either to the Crown or private individuals." "We thank your Excellency for your speech at the opening of the session. We feel, in common with your Excellency, the emergency in which the country may be placed by the expiration of the annual laws, and we also are well aware of the necessity which, in our present state of society, exists, that laws for the prevention of vagrancy, for regulating the re-
 1246 "We beg sincerely to assure your Excellency, that in deciding upon this course, we have done so with extreme reluctance. We see the inconvenience that must result from it. We are more than sensible of the many existing evils which loudly call for laws to remedy them; but we are, at the same time, equally sensible that the power is no longer left in our hands to apply the remedy. Our legislative rights have been directly invaded by Parliament, enacting a law to regulate our gaols, a measure of internal and municipal regulation clearly and palpably within our province. Even in our ordinary legislative proceedings, instead of being left to the exercise of our own deliberative judgment, we are fettered by an overruling authority, and our best exertions often defeated. Nor can we conceal from ourselves the fact, that even such of our laws as have received the sanction of the Crown are rendered, in a great measure, inoperative from an influence, not only biassing the decisions of the stipendiary justices, but which would seem to over-rule the executive authority itself." 1247 "My late despatches will have prepared your Lordship for the event which the new House of Assembly brought about—a confirmation of the resolutions of the last house, to do no business in consequence of the interference of Parliament in passing the Prison Bill. All my endeavours to induce the house to proceed in their duties having failed, the country is placed in great confusion, from the absence of the annual laws on which the public creditor depends, and the public departments are regulated. About seventeen of these laws will expire at the end of this month, and among others the Police Bill, which force I must, consequently, discharge. I may probably, on the authority of your Lordship in former exigencies, have occasion to entertain a small constabulary force in lieu of the armed police, on which I shall report hereafter. Your Lordship will be fully satisfied from this last appeal to the electoral body, that no House of Assembly can now be found that will acknowledge the authority of the Queen, Lords, and Commons to enact laws for Jamaica, or that will be likely to pass just and prudent laws for that large portion of the negro population lately brought into freedom; and your Lordship will be perfectly aware I have no power, as the Governor, to remedy the evils arising from the House of Assembly having refused to perform its functions. Thus, a constituency which may be computed at about 1,500 or 1,600 voters for the whole island, have returned, and will continue to return, the same members who deny the authority of the mother country, while upwards of 300,000 of her Majesty's free and loyal subjects are totally unrepresented, and my appeal to obtain for them common laws of protection as labourers, has, your Lordship will find, been totally disregarded." 1248 1249 1250 1251 1252 1253 1254 1255 "Resolved, that this House declares its opinion that no means shall be omitted tending to secure to the negroes the privileges to which they are entitled under the Act for the abolition of slavery, and under the amendment of the Slavery Abolition Act; and, further, that the anxious attention of this House shall be directed to the state of the negro population when the expiration of the term of apprenticeship entitles them to entire freedom." eo nomine 1256 sub silentio, 1257 1258 "This House does not dread a comparison with the Commons of England in the success of their legislation. Our laws have not been defied, as by the Irish opponents of tithes; murders are not committed in our island by companies of armed men in open day; nor do bands prowl about at night, setting fire to barns, and ricks of corn; nor do our labourers and artisans combine, as of late in Dublin and Glasgow, to raise wages, even by maiming and murder. Our courts are never occupied with the obscenities which disgrace England, nor do our husbands and daughters resort to them to expose their own shame for a money-price. The horrible trade of Burke, (and we fear, of many more), which has given a new word to the English language, was never heard of here; nor have we ever known an instance of parents putting their infant families to death to save them from the protracted sufferings of starvation. It is not in Jamaica that unfortunate mothers outrage nature by the destruction of their new-born offspring, to avoid the cruel persecution of a hard-hearted and destroying morality; nor is it under our laws that wretches commit suicide to escape the refuge which is provided for worn-out and aged industry. We have no corn-laws to add to the wealth of the rich, nor poor-laws to imprison, under pretence of maintaining the poor. We cannot, as the English Parliament does, boast of a pauper law which has taken millions from the necessities of the destitute, to add to the luxuries of the wealthy." "The taxation of the colony may, perhaps, he delegated to the House of Lords, into which was first introduced the infamous bill for our destruction; and, the first time, for many ages, their Lordships in that bill were permitted to exercise the privilege of laying on British subjects grievous pecuniary penalties. The power of taxing Jamaica may console their Lordships for its deprivation elsewhere:" 1259 l. 1260 1261
 Mr. Labouchere , in reply, said, that he considered the declaration of the Legislative Assembly of Jamaica to be in effect, if not in terms, that they would not re-
 1302
 Mr. Warburton  was of opinion, that the inquiry should be general, and not limited to timber ships. In his opinion, much of the loss was caused by forcing a trade with our colonies in which old ships and ships unfit for service were employed.
 Mr. Freshfield  denied, that the motion was one which ought to be called an  ex post facto 1243
 Mr. Eaton  moved the second reading of the Melbourne (Cambridge) Inclosure Bill.
 Mr. Godson  objected to the inference, that the principle of the bill was conceded by permitting it to be laid upon the Table in order to judge of its details. The right hon. Gentleman had called upon the House for its sympathy in consequence of being obliged to suspend the functions of the Jamaica House of Assembly. He thought, that the Government might be very much in want of sympathy from the position in which they were placed, but he was prepared to show, that the position which they now held with respect to the Legislature of Jamaica was the result of their own conduct. The fault lay with her Majesty's Government and not with the Legislature of Jamaica. The House of Assembly had demanded repose as they termed it, without further parliamentary surveillance after a former act, but that repose had not been granted to them—they had not obtained that repose which was necessary for the good and efficient Government of the island. The Assembly had been told by the Governor, that their conduct merited the approbation of the Government, and that commendation reached the Parliament of this country on the very same day that Captain Pringle's report arrived. Yet, notwithstanding that testimony in their favour, notwithstanding they had shortly before passed an act for the abolition of negro slavery, and notwithstanding they had before passed several laws upon the subject of prisons, it was now proposed without any proceeding upon their part to justify it, to deprive them of their power as a legislative body for the period of five years. Who, he would ask, was to raise the
 1279 l. 1280
 Mr. R. Palmer  seconded the motion, and as an instance showing its necessity, he need only advert to the provisions contained in the Great Western Railway Amendment Bill. No one looking at that bill could doubt, that its object was to enable the company to raise more money, and for himself, upon looking at the breviate, he felt great surprise at the increased powers given to the company by the new bill. He found, that the original bill consisted of twenty clauses, and the present bill of twenty-nine, not one word of which would be understood as the original bill stood. The company had the power of taking possession of and entertaining any lands within a certain distance of the railway for the purpose of depositing earth, stones, &c.—and giving such compensation as a Jury might determine. That was a very strong power to give to any company, and in his own case not less than fifty acres of good arable land had been taken possession
 1242
 Sir S. Lushington  was one of those who felt the deepest interest in the progress of slave emancipation, and was desirous, that our example should influence other States. But the fears that he felt on the subject were of a different description from those of the right hon. Baronet. He believed, that if they could show, that this measure promoted the wealth and prosperity of the colonists themselves—if they could show that the holders of property felt no deterioration of that property in consequence of the emancipation which had taken place—if they could show, that the inhabitants of these colonies suffered no diminution of wealth or prosperity, that then our example would become a beacon to the United States to guide them to the emancipation of those whom they held in slavery. With respect to the more immediate questions, he felt that it was not on light grounds that the constitution of Jamaica ought to be taken away. He felt, that those who proposed to take from Jamaica a constitution which that island had enjoyed for two hundred years, should show that there was an inevitable necessity to justify such a proceeding, and that the island had not been governed for the happiness of its people. The first and most important consideration was, what was to be done in the existing circumstances? He had heard it stated, that the House of Assembly had not exactly said, that they would not resume their functions unless the Parliament at home abandoned their act. No such thing had been said. But what had been said, and what had been done? Had not the House of Assembly four successive times abdicated their legislative functions? They adhered to that determination and what was it? "We will cease to act until her gracious Majesty shall be pleased to declare in what form we are to be governed, and whether or not the Imperial Parliament is to have any share in legislating for this colony." Now, this was their alternative. Did the House propose, that it should be adopted? Did they propose that the present or any future Government should say, that the Parliament of this country
 1289 1290 1291 l.
 Sir S. Lushington  wished to explain what he really had said. He had stated that the local Legislature passed the Abolition Act, not in consequence of the governor's speech, but in consequence of the Act of the British Parliament.
 Sir S. Lushington : I said the Assembly had been prorogued by Sir L. Smith.
 Mr. W. E. Gladstone  said, that his principal object in rising was to guard himself against the assumption which the right hon. Member who had just sat down was inclined to make on behalf of Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House, that in the introduction of the Bill it was intended to wave every other consideration but that which had reference to its details On the contrary, what he intended was this, that in the existing state of Jamaica it was clear that they were putting an end to the Legislature of the island, and it was necessary for public order to have some legislation, and they were bound to ascertain what the provisions of the measure were. A case had arisen in which it was necessary for some new steps to be taken; but whether by the Imperial Parliament, or the executive Government, was a question which he should wish to reserve for future consideration. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had bestowed the whale of his attention on the first act of last Session of the Jamaica House of Assembly; but he did not give attention to the most important part; there was a link wanting. It might be true, that in the despatches there were grounds requiring the enactment of some measure regarding prisons. But what was the next question? It was undoubtedly whether time were left to the Legislature to act upon the evidence laid before it. Why, until the report of Captain Pringle was laid before the House of Assembly of Jamaica, he would not say the Assembly was not ripe for legislation, but until the report was laid before the Assembly, the Government of this country was not in a condition to say to the Assembly, "You are prepared to proceed to legislate." His hon. Friend cheered loudly when it was stated that this Report was not laid before the Assembly. How was it possible to say to the Assembly of Jamaica, "We will suspend your powers because you will not legislate on the subject of prisons," when the Government itself thought it necessary to institute an inquiry into the state of prisons, and when the results of that inquiry were not in the possession of the House of Commons, nor in the possession of the colonial legislature? He was not prepared to affirm that the act for the regulation of prisons was justified by the necessity of the case; but suppose it was—supposing every one of these questions put,
 1277 in totidem verbis, G. Grey.— G. Grey.— "Therefore, that in the opinion of this House, they will best consult their own honour, the rights of their constituents, and the peace and well-being of the colony, by abstaining from the exercise of any legislative function, excepting such as may be necessary to preserve inviolate the faith of the island with the public creditor, until her Most Gracious Majesty's pleasure shall be made known, whether her subjects of Jamaica, now happily ail in a state of freedom, are henceforth to be treated as subjects with the power of making laws, as hitherto, for their own government, or whether they are to be treated as a conquered colony, and governed by Parliamentary legislation, orders in Council, or, as in the case of the late amended Abolition Act, by investing the governor of the island with the arbitrary power of issuing proclamations having the force of law over the lives and properties of the people." 1278
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  had no objection to the motion of his hon. Friend, although he thought there might be some difference of opinion as to the cause of the great annual loss of ships employed in the timber trade with America. He hoped the attention of the committee would be directed to the subject of deck-loading, which he thought deserved consideration.
 Sir G. Grey  said, that notwithstanding the somewhat intemperate attack which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down on the measures which had been adopted by the Government with reference to the negro population of the West India Islands, and more particularly of the island of Jamaica, he most earnestly hoped that this important subject would be discussed, when it came to be fully discussed on the second reading of the bill, with a calm and serious attention on the part of hon. Members to the circumstances which had at length forced on Government the adoption of measures, with reference to the legislature of Jamaica, which they had been earnestly endeavouring for years to avoid. Considering the magnitude of the question, he strongly hoped hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House would approach the discussion of it with temper and calmness. The right hon. Gentleman, he was sorry to say, had not set the example of moderation on the present occasion. The right hon. Gentleman made it a charge against her Majesty's Government that by a series of unprovoked attacks on the legislature of Jamaica they had at length brought affairs to such a condition as to lead that body to the adoption of measures which, as the right hon. Gentleman admitted, were of such a nature as justified the extreme measure of the suspension of the colonial legislature. The right hon. Gentleman had admitted this, and had led him to conclude that he had no intention of opposing the second reading of the bill, provided that the details turned out to be such as he could approve.[ "No, no." 1268 "Your committee have felt it their duty to institute a strict inquiry into the alleged cases of corporal punishment inflicted on female apprentices. They found that this subject had engaged the close attention both of the local Government of, Jamaica, and of the Government in this country, and that measures had been already taken to prevent the recurrence of the violation of that most important enactment, contained alike in the Imperial Act for the abolition of slavery, and in the Jamaica Statute, which prohibits the infliction of corporal punishment on female apprentices. The result of Lord Sligo's inquiry upon this point led to the discovery of many instances of a practice of this nature existing for offences against the discipline of the workhouse in the houses of correction in Jamaica, not under the immediate control of the executive Government, but subject to local regulations and superintendence. Your committee are happy to observe that the legality of this punishment has in no instance been asserted, but that all parties in Jamaica have concurred in its being contrary to the enactments in the Abolition Act before referred to. In several cases prosecutions were instituted against the offender by order of the governor; in one recent case
 1269 1270 1271 "There is one subject to which the committee consider it to be their duty specially to advert. The state of the workhouses and of the prison discipline is so intimately connected with the working of the apprenticeship system, that it has engaged the anxious attention of the committee, particularly as it exists in the island of Jamaica, to which their inquiries have been principally directed, and it appears to them to be indispensable that there should be instituted, without delay, a strict and searching examination into the state of the workhouses in the West India colonies, and especially into the construction and use of the treadmills which are employed in them, and the nature of the coercion adopted to insure labour among the prisoners. It has been satisfactory to the committee to learn that the attention of the Colonial-office has been directed to this question, and that it is the intention of that department to take effectual means to obtain the information which is required upon it." 1272 1273 "I am aware that the necessity for such an Act may be much greater in some colonies than in others; and I have no reason to doubt that, in some at least, every disposition will be evinced by the Legislature to correct evils and abuses in their prison discipline and arrangements, which will probably still remain for the local legislature to do, in order to place this subject in a proper position. The Government, however, felt it necessary that an immediate remedy should be applied to such evils as may be removed by the adoption of an uniform system of superintendence and inspection throughout the West Indies. The intervention of Parliament has been the only effectual mode of accomplishing this object. A bill was accordingly introduced, which has been adopted with the unanimous assent of both Houses of Parliament, and has within the last few days received the Royal assent." 1274 seriatim, Goulburm. Cheers. 1275 1276
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that he had been present on the occasion, and remembered well, that the noble Lord had distinctly refused to give that effect to the clause: and he thought, that the alteration now proposed, ought not to have been brought forward without having been first printed, with the votes, as the clause itself had been, and without any statement of the causes which had led to the alteration, and this at such an hour of the night.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that the alteration, so far as he collected it as it was read, appeared to him to change entirely the whole character of the clause; making it retrospective instead of prospective.
 Sir Robert Peel  explained, that he had not defended the Legislative Assembly, and had declined doing so to a deputation which waited on him to solicit his aid.
 Sir R. Peel said , I wish, Sir, before the question is put, to make a few observations with respect to the subject before the House, and the principles that appear to me to be involved in the course which the right hon. Gentleman calls upon us to adopt. In the opinions I am about to offer to the House, I do not wish to be understood as approving of the course which has been pursued by the House of Assembly of Jamaica. I do not appear as the advocate of one party or the other, but whilst I cannot approve of what has been done by the House of Assembly of Jamaica, I am still less inclined to approve of the course that has been taken in reference to these transactions by her Majesty's Government. At the same time, I feel the difficulty of the situation in which we are placed, and the necessity of adopting some course to remedy that difficulty as well as the circumstances out of which it has arisen. But, Sir, when I consider the steps which have led to that necessity, though I admit, that there is blame to be imputed to the House of Assembly of Jamaica, it appears to me that a far greater amount of blame is to be attributed to the course which has been adopted by her Majesty's Government. I have already stated, that I am no advocate for the House of
 1281 l. 1282 l., 1283 1284 1285 1286 1287 1288
 Lord Stanley  was extremely happy, that this subject had engaged the attention of the Government, and that a bill had been brought forward and submitted to the consideration of Parliament by the law adviser of the Crown in Scotland, and of course with the authority and sanction of Ministers, for the remedy of abuses, the existence of which could neither be denied nor overlooked. At the same time, he confessed, had the bill been brought forward in any other quarter, he should have felt very much disposed, after hearing the statement of the learned Lord, to resist its
 1313 bonâ fide l. 1314
 Mr. P. Thomson  moved for the appointment of a select Committee to inquire into the state of communication by railways, and to report their observations thereon to the House. It was intended, he said, that the Committee should consider the present state of the regulations affecting railways as settled by the bills already passed through Parliament. It was well known to the House that there was now a great number of applications from railway companies for bills to confer fresh powers,
 1315
 The Lord Advocate  rose to ask permission to introduce two bills; the first for the better ascertaining and defining the rights of voting for Members of Parliament in Scotland; and the second for the better
 1307 1308 "The fictitious or colourable votes brought under the notice of your committee may be classed under the following heads:—first, life-renters; second, proprietors, joint or several; third, joint-tenants; and of these more especially the first. For example, in the county of Selkirk, in 1832, the whole constituency was 180, among whom were very few life-renters, and none were non-residents. In 1836, the constituency had increased to 552, of whom 112 were life-renters, and of these five only were resident. In Peebles, the constituency, in 1832, was 301, of whom the life-renters were eight, and all resident. In 1836, the constituency was 576, of which the life-renters were 100, and only twenty-eight of them resident." l. 1309 "Your committee have anxiously sought for the most effectual means of checking the creation of colourable votes under these several denominations of the franchise, and having carefully considered various suggestions which have been made to them, agree in recommending;—1. That all life-rents by grant should be limited to persons being in occupation, either by themselves or tenant, such tenant not being the fiar, or any one holding in the fiar's behoof. 2. That in all cases of proprietorship, whether in fee or life-rent, acquired otherwise than by succession, infeftment should be imperative. 3. That a clear beneficial interest of 10 l. 1310 "An appeal already lies from the decision of a single sheriff to a court composed of several of his professional brethren habitually engaged in adjudging similar cases in adjoining counties; and your committee think that much might be done to produce increased uniformity of practice in the whole body, by giving a farther reference to the body of the sheriffs at large in certain cases. With this view their attention has been directed to one of the provisions of the new 'Sheriffs of Scotland Bill,' which is now in progress through your House, whereby it is enacted, that the sheriffs of Scotland shall hold meetings periodically in Edinburgh, to revise the procedure of the Sheriffs' Courts. It seems to your committee that at these meetings the conflicting decisions of the Appeal Courts on claims for enrolment might also fail to be considered; and, with that view, making it imperative on the sheriffs to hold such meetings, it should be rendered competent for any party against whom a decision had been given, differing from what had been given on the same point in another appeal court, to bring that discrepancy under the knowledge of the court by whom his case has been decided, and require that the case shall be submitted for the consideration of the general meeting of the sheriffs. Your committee do not mean to advise that the decision come to by the general meeting shall in any way affect the case already disposed of; but they would hope it could hardly fail to influ-
 1311 1312
 The Attorney-General  moved for leave to bring in a bill to amend the Imprisonment for Debt Abolition Act, passed last Session of Parliament, in as far as relates to proprietors of newspapers being obliged to insert advertisements in their newspapers for the sum of 3 s. s. 1316
 Mr. Colquhoun  said, that great injustice had been done to the gentry of Scotland, when it was said, that they had done nothing for the prisons of that country, and this would be apparent when he stated, that from the year 1819 down to the present time they had expended no less a sum than 66,000 l.
 Captain Gordon  regretted exceedingly that the proposition of his hon. Friend below (Sir G. Clerk) was not acceded to. The gentlemen of Scotland were very desirous to have good prison accommodation provided. Many districts had already assessed themselves for that purpose, and
 1327 l.
 Mr. Edward Ellice : in seconding the amendment, said, that he really had hoped, after all that had passed, both in and out of that House, some notice would have been taken of the statements that had
 1329 1330
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it had been his intention to propose a lower sum at first; but he thought it better to adopt a general principle, and he had been assured that there would be no objection to 3,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that the hon. Baronet must excuse him if he doubted his sincerity when he said, that he advocated the principle of this bill, as his speech was undoubtedly directed against every clause of it. The hon. Baronet chiefly objected to the unconstitutional powers to be given to the board, but that objection was removed by the appeal to Parliament which
 1325
 Mr. Hawes  said, that as he had paid some attention to the subject, he hoped he might be allowed to make some observations on the present occasion. There was a great difference between the systems of Scotch and English prisons. In this country the whole of the prisons were supported out of the county funds; but the object of the hon. Baronet was to have the Scotch prisons maintained by the public generally. The whole sum in dispute was 30,000 l.
 Mr. Hawes  was very sorry to be obliged to trespass upon the attention of hon. Members; but his excuse was this, that had he understood that the subject was to have been brought on, upon the preceding night, he certainly should have felt it to be his duty to be in attendance. The subject having been brought on the night before, he believed, arose from a misunderstanding. He did not say with whom the misunderstanding had arisen. He took it that the misunderstanding was on his own part; but then he had to say, that but for the misunderstanding he should have been present and made some remarks upon the appointment of the committee. He decidedly objected to the appointment of any such committee; he objected to it upon principle. He thought that it was a most undue, improper, and wanton interference with capital. He had not yet heard a single public ground stated on which such a proposition could rest. What object could the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade mean by the appointment of such a committee? What information did he require of which he was not already in possession? Did he wish to know the regulations? Did he wish to understand the nature of these companies? Did he desire to know what
 1337 1338
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said that it was not his fault that the hon. Gentleman was not satisfied with what he had stated to the House relative to the objects of this committee. The House had agreed to the appointment of the committee; and he must say that this course was not
 1336
 The Lord Advocate  thought there might be an advantageous division of the prisoners detained on charges before trial, and those confined afterwards. Those detained in custody before trial, ought to share in various advantages which those kept in custody afterwards ought not to have. That was the only advantage that could be derived from dividing the bill into two parts. Under the superintendence of the board, such prisons would be erected as were necessary. He was glad that the hon. Member for Kilmarnock was not against the tax. The purpose they all had in view—namely, the better regulation of prisons, would not be attained by dividing the bill into two. There were great objections to dividing the bill into two; in the first place, only one might pass, and the Members for England might not be disposed to advance 10,000 l.
 The Lord Advocate  opposed the amendment. He did not mean to say, that the system of judicature which was in operation in Scotland, was altogether free from defects. Ever since he had been in that House he had been studiously anxious to do every thing in his power to improve the system, and much of late had been done to remedy the defects which were acknowledged to exist. But, while he stated thus much, he was bound to say, that the system which the hon. Gentleman so decidedly opposed, had met with the approbation of some of the most eminent lawyers in England, and had received the sanction of an Act of Parliament. He could not see how the hon. Gentleman opposite could refuse to make a necessary addition to the salaries of the Scotch Judges, considering that the salaries of the English Judges had been increased, and considering also the great reduction which had been made in the annual expense of the system of judicature established in Scotland. By the reductions which had taken place, upwards of 50,000 l. l.
 Mr. Wallace  rose with reluctance, to bring forward the amendment, of which he had given notice, because he was quite aware that this measure had already received very considerable discussion; but he conceived it to be his duty to use his best endeavours to prevent this bill passing further than it had done just now, without they were assured, at the same time, that when increasing the salaries of the judges, they should have a thorough reform of those courts over which they presided. The hon. Member moved, "that an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to direct an enquiry to be made by persons unconnected with Scotland—first, into the nature and extent of the duties incumbent on the thirteen judges of the Supreme Court in Scotland, keeping in view the short period those judges sit on the bench, the great length of the vacations they enjoy, and the continious large decrease of suits tried before them. Secondly, whether one Court of Review, consisting of four judges, instead of two Review Courts of co-ordinate jurisdiction under eight judges, as at present, would not facilitate the ends of justice in the Supreme Court of Scotland, and effect a saving to the country of 14,000 l. viva voce
 Mr. Wallace  said, the House had been led to expect that the puisne judges' salaries would be 2,600 l. l., 1334 l. l., l.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  then said, that as the right hon. Baronet opposite had determined to place upon record his sentiments respecting the intended motion of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, he thought it right to do the same. He gave notice, then, that in the event of the House adopting the motion of the noble Secretary, he should move as an addition thereto, that in the opinion of that House, it was expedient that such further reform be made in the representation of the people as would conduce to their contentment, and to the general security and welfare of the kingdom at large. As the party on the other side of the House had given their notice, he felt bound to give his on behalf of himself and others, as well in as out of that House.
 Mr. Gillon  proposed to insert a proviso in it, empowering the Crown to call on any judge who had retired upon a pension upon the ground of ill health, to resume his duties as soon as it appeared that he was in a condition to do so. The hon. Member mentioned the case of Sir Archibald Campbell as an instance of a judge, who after quitting the bench, had been quite restored to health, and was now as
 1335
 Mr. Gillon  supported Mr. Wallace's motion. He observed, that the House had not too much popularity to lose, and he thought the passing of the present measure would by no means increase it. The judges were paid smaller salaries when they had less business before them, and living was more expensive. Notwithstanding the reductions for which credit had been taken in the abolition of other courts, the business before the Court of Session had continued to decrease. The average number of cases enrolled for the four years previous to the passing of the Judicature Act in 1825, was 2,143. By a return for the year 1833, the number was 2,031; and by a similar return for the past year, it was 1,486; thus exhibiting a diminution of about a third. Much had been said of the saving created by the reduction; but that saving was owing to retiring allowances, and other circumstances more prospective than immediate. It was notorious that the judges had but five months of session, while they had seven of vacation, and that even during session the judges of the inner house sat on an average only an hour and a-half per day. Previously to 1810, the salaries of the judges were 1,280 l. 1332
 Mr. Gillon  moved to insert the following words, "And whereas the number of
 1333
 Mr. Gillon  objected to the amount, and proposed 4,300 l.
 Sir G. Clerk  was understood to say, that he should propose a division of the measure into two bills; and he certainly thought, that if a Board of Commissioners were appointed to sit in Edinburgh for
 1324 l.
 The Attorney-General  entirely agreed in the bill in all its parts. There was no necessity for any further inquiry whatever. Whether the bill was popular or unpopular he did not care, as it was but a bare act of justice to individuals and to the public.
 Mr. Easthope  begged to observe that the public would feel much discontent that no statement had been made by the right hon. Gentleman of the objects of the committee, and that the country would view with anxiety and alarm the appointment of such a committee without a statement of its precise objects. He had informed the right hon. Gentleman in private, and he repeated it there, that he had hoped the defect of last night would have been remedied, and that he would have given that night the fullest information to the House.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had prepared a draught of the amendment that he intended to move to the motion which the noble Lord opposite, the Secretary for the Home Department, had intimated his intention of submitting to the House on Monday next. It would be recollected, that in the early part of the week he (Sir R. Peel) had said, that on this day, or if possible earlier, he should, in order to prevent the House being taken by surprise, give notice of the amendment which he purposed moving to the motion on the subject of Ireland which stood for Monday. His intended amendment contained some reference to proceedings which had recently taken place before the other House of Parliament, and he was aware, that in point of form he could not deliver in a notice which referred to any proceedings of the Lords without the appointment of a committee to search the Lords' journals. He took for granted, that at a later period of that night the noble Lord would allow him to move for such committee; in the meanwhile he should, for the convenience of the House, read the notice of amendment which he intended to place upon the book. The right hon. Baronet read as follows:—
 "Resolved—That, on the 13th day of March last, a Motion was made in this House for the production of various documents connected with the state of Ireland in respect to crime and outrage, including communications made to the Irish Government relating to offences connected with ribandism, and all memorials, resolutions, and addresses, forwarded to the Irish Government by magistrates, or other official persons, in respect of crimes and outrages committed in Ireland, and the answers thereto. "That the period included within the returns so called for, extends from the commencement of the year 1835 to the present time; and that the motion made for the pro-
 1322 "That, on the 21st day of March last, the House of Lords appointed a Select Committee 'to inquire into the state of Ireland since the year 1835, in respect to crime and outrage, which have rendered life and property insecure in that part of the empire.' "That, in consequence of the appointment of such Committee by the House of Lords, it has been proposed that this House should resolve, 'That it is the opinion of this House, that it is expedient to persevere in those principles which have guided the executive Government of Ireland of late years, and which have tended to the effectual administration of the law, and the general improvement of that part of the United Kingdom.' "Resolved, That it appears to this House that the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry by the House of Lords, under the circumstances and for the purpose above-mentioned, does not justify Her Majesty's Ministers in calling upon this House without previous inquiry, or even the production of the information which this House has required, to make a declaration of opinion with respect to one branch of the public policy of the executive Government, still less a declaration of opinion which is neither explicit as to the principles which it professes to approve, nor definite as to the period to which it refers; and that it is not fitting that this House should adopt a proceeding which has the appearance of calling in question the undoubted right of the House of Lords to inquire into the state of Ireland in respect to crime and outrage, more especially when the exercise of that right by the House of Lords does not interfere with any previous proceeding or resolution of the House of Commons, nor with the progress of any legislative measure assented to by the House of Commons, or at present under its consideration."
 Sir W. Rae  said, that the ground upon which the hon. Member for St. Andrews founded his complaints against the Court of Session before the Committee which sat to inquire into this subject, rested upon the evidence of a Mr. Campbell, the
 1331
 Sir William Rae  denied, that the gentlemen of Scotland had been neglectful of the state of prisons there, and every county would show, that large sums of money had been laid out in the improvements of gaols. He admitted, however, that what had been done had not been done upon a good principle, and therefore, he was very anxious, that every thing should be done under the direction of a board properly constituted. He thought it would have been much better, that upon this subject two bills should have been brought in, instead of the one now before the House, but still he would not divide the House upon an opposition to it.
 Sir W. Rae  defended the advance. Nothing now was left to excite the emulation of the Scottish bar but these two chief judgeships. He thought the Lord President should have 5,000 l.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that in laying on the Table, by command of her Majesty, certain papers relating to the taking a pilot out of the Express packet by the French force on the coast of Mexico, he wished to avail himself of the opportunity of stating, that the papers contained some communications that had passed with the French Government on the subject; they contained the statement of the officer in command of the packet with regard to the transaction, and a letter of Count Sebastiani, containing an explanation and apology, honourable alike to the Government offering, and to the Government receiving it, and having been offered without any official demand, it was, therefore, the more honourable and creditable to the French Government. Count Sebastiani, in his communication, stated, that he was charged by the King of the French to make known to the Government of her Britannic Majesty the deep regret which the King of the French felt at hearing of the removal of a Mexican pilot by his force from the British packet-ship the Express; and he also stated, that when Admiral Baudin unfortunately directed that step to be taken, he was not aware that the vessel belonged to the British marine force. This incident, therefore, had been the result of a mistake, and in no degree arose from any want of respect to the English flag. The affair was sincerely deplored by the King of the French and his Government, as well as by the commandant of the French squadron on the coast of Mexico, who expressed an anxious hope, that no error of the kind would occur again; and it was added, that the strictest instructions had been given for the most vigilant attention, which would prevent a similar occurrence. Count Sebastiani added, that he trusted this explanation would prove satisfactory to the British Government, and that nothing would ever disturb the harmony and union which now existed between the two countries, and which both Governments had so much at heart to maintain.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to reply to some of the observations of the right hon. Baronet, but before he did so he begged to say, in reference to the motion made in another place, that if that motion had been brought forward in the manner suggested by the right hon. Baronet, and accompanied with the limitation he had prescribed, the same justification would not have existed for the present motion as now, taking the circumstances as they stood. The right hon. Baronet had specifically excluded, or if not, had so lightly touched upon one point which he considered as of the essence of' the whole question, and had dwelt so little upon another part of the case which he also thought of essential importance, that when he brought, as he purposed to do, those two matters under the consideration of the House, he thought he should entirely defeat the impression which the right hon. Gentleman's speech was calculated to create. If they traced the logic of the right hon. Gentleman, it would appear most strange. Because the Government had acquiesced in a proposition wholly unobjectionable made in the House of Commons, they were not to oppose a motion in the House of Lords which raised a just cause of offence. The two propositions were quite distinct. The proposition made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Shaw) was a motion for returns which were part of an ordinary series, which had been customarily afforded in part, which were commonly called for, and which he had never known refused. It was true that the returns were confined to a specified time: he believed, however, that they were a continuation of similar returns—that they were, in fact, amplifications of annual returns laid year by year upon the table of the House, exhibiting the state of crime in Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman called for papers; he did not criminate the Government in any way; the papers were only amplified continuations of those already before the House, and the Government were bound to furnish them. But what was the principle of the proceeding in the House of Lords? And when the right hon. Baronet called upon that House not to express
 78 79 80 81 82 83 prim âfacie 84 85 86 87 88 89 R. Peel 90 91 l. l. 92 93 Cheers.
 Lord John Russell  spoke to the following effect: —Mr. Speaker, On the 21st of March the House of Lords were pleased to resolve to appoint a Select Committee to inquire "into the state of Ireland since the year 1835, with respect to crime and outrage, which render life and property insecure in that part of the empire." Sir, I thought it my duty on the very next day to state the view which I took of that resolution of the House of Lords, and to say that I should ask for an expression of the opinion of this House on the administration of affairs in Ireland. With respect to the importance of the motion, both to Ireland and to the United Kingdom, it is quite unnecessary, that I should say anything. With regard to the anxiety which I feel on the subject of the motion which I am now to make, it is impossible that I can adequately express my feelings. I shall therefore proceed at once to state my views of the resolution of the House of Lords, and of the amendment of which notice has been given by the right hors. Gentleman opposite. There are some points in that amendment which perhaps it is necessary, that I should notice before I go into the main subject of discussion. A part of that amendment says, that the expression of opinion called for now is only an expression of opinion on one part of the policy of the executive government. Sir, the reason why it is proposed to ask for an opinion on one part of the policy of the executive government is, because it is that part of their policy alone upon which
 5 6 7 primâ facie primâ facie 8 9 10 11 "Your faithful Commons believe the administration of the government best secured when it is left to your Majesty, with whom the law has entrusted it, and have so firm a dependence upon your Majesty's affection to your people, and your great wisdom, that they can never apprehend the least danger from any conspiracy, as when the examination thereof is under your Majesty's direction. Your faithful Commons do, therefore, most earnestly desire your Majesty to suffer no diminution of that prerogative, which during your Majesty's reign they are confident will always be exerted for the good of your people. "That no peace can be honourable or safe for her Majesty and her allies if Spain, and the Spanish West Indies be suffered to continue in the possession of the house of Bourbon." James Graham: 12 13 14 "At last they proceeded to regulate the price of land, to raise the price of labour, and to oppose the collection of the hearth-money and other taxes. I am very well acquainted with the province of Munster, and I know that it is impossible for human wretchedness to exceed that of the miserable peasantry in that province. I know that the unhappy tenantry are ground to powder by relentless landlords. I know that far from being able to give the clergy their just dues, they have not food or raiment for themselves; the landlord grasps the whole, and, sorry am I to add, that, not satisfied with the present extortion, some landlords have been so base as to instigate the insurgents to rob the clergy of their tithes, not in order to alleviate the distresses of the tenantry, but that they might add the clergy's share to the cruel rack-rents already paid." 15 "The age has improved so much in humanity, that even the poor Irish have experienced its influence, and are every day treated better and better; but still the remnant of the old manners, the abominable distinction of religion united with the oppressive conduct of the little country gentlemen, or rather vermin of the kingdom, who never were out of it, altogether still bear, say hard, on the poor people, and subject them to situations more mortifying than we ever behold in England. The landlord of an Irish estate inhabited by Roman Catholics is a sort of despot, who yields obedience, in whatever concerns the poor, to no law but that of his will. To discover what the liberty of a people is we must live among them, and not look for it in the statutes of the realm: the language of the written law may be that of liberty, but the situation of the poor may speak no language but that of slavery. There is too much of this contradiction in Ireland; a long series of oppressions, aided by many very ill-judged laws, have brought landlords into a habit of exercising a very lofty superiority, and their vassals into that of an almost unlimited submission. A landlord in Ireland can scarcely invent an order which a servant, labourer, or cotter, dares refuse to execute. Nothing satisfies him but unlimited submission. Disrespect, or anything tending towards sauciness he may punish with his cane or his horsewhip with the most perfect security. A poor man would have his bones broken if he offered to lift his hand in his own defence." "You, who have looked deeply into the spirit of the popery laws, must be perfectly sensible that a great part of the present mis-
 16 "It has frequently happened of late years in different parts of this kingdom, that several persons calling themselves Whiteboys, and others, as well by night as in the day time, have in a riotous, tumultuous, and disorderly manner assembled together, and have abused and injured the persons, habitations, and properties of many of his Majesty's loyal and faithful subjects, and have taken away and carried
 17 18 "The pilgrim oft
At dead of night, 'mid his orison, hears, Aghast, the voice of time, disparting towers, Tumbling all precipitate, down-dashed." "I find the Whiteboy system has for the last sixty years continued under different names. The outrages have been of the same kind for the last sixty years. They (the illegal associations) have always had objects connected more or less with land. The preamble of the Irish Act,15 and 16 Geo. 3rd, almost describes the present state of the country. Associations have been formed for regulating the prices of land, attacking houses, administering oaths, delivering threatening notices, taking arms, taking horses at night, and returning them again in the morning, taking away girls, murders of proctors and guagers, preventing exportation of provisions, digging up land, destroying fences, houghing cattle, resisting the payment of tithes, and other outrages similar to those which have occurred in Clare last year, and which are now the subject of investigation in the Queen's County" 19 20 "There is one circumstance," he said, "in the history of the Catholic concessions which deserves to be particularly considered. From the first concession, 1777 down to 1782, and thence to 1793, they have all been made under circumstances of greater or less political difficulty; and though no one will say it was an unwise or unfit policy, when we were entangled with a civil war in America, or when we were menaced with a foreign war with France, to endeavour, by conciliation and union, to strengthen our resources at home; yet it may have been suspected—most unjustly, I readily admit—that these concessions were not the result of legislative wisdom, nor the offspring of justice and liberality, nor the consequences of an enlarged and comprehensive policy, embracing the general welfare of the whole empire—but a benefit extorted from us under the influence of apprehension and danger," 21 "I can remember," he often said, "the recognition of Irish independence, and how those who had talked of it as almost treason made no attempt to oppose it, while, if any objection was suggested, there was a general hush, and it was whispered they have 40,000 volunteers in arms. My experience of Parliament and of the country convinces me that when some alarm arises in Ireland, a war or an insurrection, every thing will be given up at once, as it then was, without those securities to ourselves, or that benefit for Ireland, which now might be provided." 22 "A complete system of legislation, with the most prompt, vigorous, and severe executive power, sworn, equipped, and armed for all purposes of savage punishment, is established in almost every district. On this subject I cannot express my opinion more clearly, nor with more force nor justice, than your Lordship will find employed in a letter addressed by Lord Oxmantown, lieutenant of the King's county, to Mr. Littleton. Lord Oxmantown truly observes that the combination surpasses the law in vigour, promptitude, and efficacy, and that it is more safe to violate the law than to obey it." 23 24 
 
 Committals. Convictions. 
 1832 620 168 
 1833 687 274 
 1834 575 299 
 1835 712 309 
 1836 620 292 
 1837 519 175 
 1838 424 199 25 F. Shaw 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 s. "The whole affair was managed, and the money paid by the landlord, or the candidate, or was in some other way made the object of a job for promoting the political influence of those who took the trouble of managing it. It also appeared from the authority he had before quoted, that the people were driven to the hustings in large numbers; that they were looked upon as part of the live stock of the estate; and that they were scarcely treated like human beings. Property has its value as well as its rights; and that it is to the neglect of these in times past, that many and most of the present miseries are to be attributed." s. l. 34 "State generally what has become of them; (1,126 poor people ejected). Do they continue wandering about?—I have known on one estate which is near me, and which I had regulated for a gentleman, there has been a great many of the old people turned off that became beggars, and a good many of them died of want.—Do you mean they died from want?—A kind of distress; being turned out of their houses, and many of them became beggars and died; some of them are labouring in different parts of the country, but the old people in general died; I can state to the committee the number that died to my own knowledge." 35 Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow; Raze out the written troubles of the brain; And, with some sweet oblivious antidote, Cleanse the foul bosom of that perilous stuff Which weighs upon the heart? 36 l. l. "I have been long, but it is almost a necessary consequence of dictating, and that by snatches, as a relief from pain gives me the means of expressing my sentiments. They can have little weight in coming from me; and I have not power enough of mind or body to bring them out with their natural force. But I do not wish to have it concealed that I am of the same opinion to my last breath, which I entertained when my faculties were at the best, and I have not held back from men in power in this kingdom, to whom I have very good wishes, any part of nay sentiments on
 37 38 39
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. Member for the University of Oxford had relieved him from a difficulty in which he had been placed by the statement of the hon. Member for London. After what that hon. Baronet had said, he (the Speaker) was ready to affirm, and take upon himself the entire responsibility of having ordered the hon. Gentleman in question to withdraw.
 The Speaker  said, that the circumstances under which the exclusion of the hon. Members took place were briefly these. There happened to be a thin attendance of Members at the point of time in question, and he was consequently able to have a clear view of the door. Upon that occasion, just before putting the question, he looked to the door, and saw it was closed. While putting the question he saw the door forced open, and three Members enter the House. Upon this he ordered the door to be closed, and the three Members to withdraw. Immediately after-wards, on perceiving that these Gentlemen had found means to obtain access to the House, he sent for the Sergeant-at Arms, and asked in what way they had obtained admission. The Sergeant stated that he had closed the door, and was holding it closed with the assistance of a messenger, and that the only reason why the door had not been locked as soon as on ordinary occasions was, that he had met with an accident, which prevented him from locking the door as readily as was desirable, but that the door was actually closed at the time the hon. Gentleman came up to it.
 Mr. Humphery  said, that the door was half open when he came in. When he
 4
 Mr. Godson  said, that he was one of the Members in question, and at the time he entered the door he was quite unaware of the question being put; nor was he aware that any officer of the House was entitled to use violence towards a Member of the House. He was relieved at finding that the circumstance was one which took place under the responsibility of the right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. R. Steuart  said, that the door was closed, and the question half put, before the hon. Gentleman entered the House. The door was forced open at the moment the Sergeant was endeavouring to lock it.
 Mr. Crawford  could state upon his honour that the door was partially open when he came up to it.
 Mr. Crawford  would bow with all deference to the decision of the Speaker. He was not aware that any reference had been made to the right hon. Gentleman on the subject, or he should not have thought of bringing the matter before the House.
 Mr. Crawford  begged to intimate that on the first occasion which presented itself, he should ask the consideration of the House upon the circumstance of three hon. Members of that House having been compelled by the personal mandate of the Sergeant-at-Arms to withdraw from the House on Friday evening, just previous to a division.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that in justice to
 3
 Sir Robert Peel : I do not regret that I have given to the noble Lord by declaring antecedent to the present debate the amendment which I meant to move, the advantage of which he has largely, but not unfairly, availed himself, of commenting on the terms and purport of that amendment. I consider that I made no concession; that I deprived myself of no advantage by not concealing the terms of the amendment until the moment of submitting it to the House. I felt that the propositions contained in it are so consistent with good sense, so founded in justice, that I willingly granted that opportunity for comment which an early declaration must give. I sought to conciliate no support. I sought not to exclude the support of any man, who, differing from me in opinion, might yet think the amendment justified by truth and by reason; and I did not attempt so to frame it as to conciliate those from whom on most questions of policy I widely differ. Sir, I was advised not to introduce the name of the House of Lords, because the
 40 41 42 43 "nihil iste, nec ausus, Nec potuit: cœlum hoc et conscia sidera testor: Tantûm infelicem nimium dilexit amicum." —"poor sequestered stag, That from the hunter's aim had ta'en a hurt," "When most invectively he pierced' through The body of the country, city, court." "Left and abandoned of his velvet friends." 44 "The flux of company." 45 46 47 48 49 50 prima facie prima facie prima facie 51 52 "May, 1831.—Sir H. Parnell moved Committee to examine into the state of the disturbed counties in Ireland, into the immediate causes which have produced the same, and into the efficiency of the laws for the suppression of outrages against the public peace." 53 54 prima facie prima facie 55 "It is this same 'miserable monopolising minority' which has not dared to bring forward any charge in Parliament against the present administration in Ireland; but which has met and passed certain resolutions containing charges highly criminatory of Lord Mulgrave, charges which, if true, would ensure that noble Lord's instant dismissal. And although Parliament has now been assembled for a week, and although Members of both Houses were present at the meeting in Ireland * * * not one of them has yet ventured to give any notice that he will bring before Parliament those high crimes and misdemeanours. * * *" 56 "That in this House no one is willing to bring forward the subject, as no one would venture to encounter the strength of the support which his Majesty's Ministers have received from the majority in this House. This, I say, is a miserable argument. * * * But is there not another House of Parliament, where this subject could be brought forward? What is the power of the opponents of his Majesty's Government in that House? * * * * Why do these gentlemen shrink from going before that House, and bringing forward these charges? They have brought forward matters impeaching the conduct and derogatory to the character of the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, and yet they dare not bring his conduct before Parliament? It may be that, after all, they feel that whatever their majority may be in the other House of Parliament, it is not a majority for such purposes. It may be that they feel that a majority of the other House of Parliament will not sanction such accusations. But they should at least have the candour and frankness to let this be known." * 57 "I am personally a stranger to your county; perusal of the calendar of prisoners, and the informations on which they were committed, demonstrate to me, whatever may be the issue as to the guilt or innocence of the accused, that there can be no doubt of the lamentable fact that in no place where the law of England extends is human life less regarded than in the county of Tipperary. It may be some palliation of the crime, but it is a melancholy one, that in many of the cases where life has been sacrificed in this county it resulted from hasty ebullition of human passion, or in sudden affrays between factions in the county, in which parties have mingled in deadly conflict, for the gratification of a wild spirit of clanship. Unhappily there is another class of homicide that calls for the urgent interference of the law, and which has not the miserable palliation which I have mentioned, belongs to the former class, and which does not result from hasty conflict, or the accidental consequences of a chance blow, inflicted in a moment of excitement. But, gentlemen, we are compelled to say, that, in many instances, they are the result of deep-laid conspiracy, that calls for blood and assassination." 58 59 60 61 "That when persons suspected of treasonable practices were taken into custody by her Majesty's messengers in order to be examined, the Lords, in violation of the known laws of the land, had wrested them out of their hands, and arrogated the examination solely to themselves." "The Commons were in an ill-humour against the Lords, and so they were glad to find occasions to vent it. They thought the Lords ought not to have entered upon this examination; they complained of it as a new and unheard of thing. In an address to the Queen they said it was an invasion of her prerogative. "This was a proceeding without a precedent. The parliamentary method was, when one House was offended with any thing done in another, conferences were demanded, in which matters were freely debated. "Tindal says that it was an amazing thing to see a House of Commons affirm, in so public a manner, and so pointing, that the Lords taking criminals into their own custody, in order to examination, was without warrant or precedent, when there were so many instances fresh in every man's memory. But it was entirely owing to a party pique. The Tories, who were the strongest in the House of Commons, laying hold of all opportunities, both to ingratiate themselves with the Queen, and to oppose the Whigs, who had the majority in the House of Lords." "The Commons continued to protest, but the Lords' committee went on with their examinations, and concluded with voting that there had been dangerous plots between some in Scotland and the Court of France and St. Germain's. "This being concluded, they made a long and vigorous address in answer to that which the Commons had made against them. "They observed how uneasy the Commons had been at the whole progress of the inquiry into this matter, and had taken methods to obstruct it all they could. The Lords took not the examination to themselves so as to exclude others who had the same right, and might have done it as well as they if they had pleased." 62 "No House of Commons till now has given countenance to the dangerous opinion which does so directly tend to the rendering all Ministers safe from the examination of Parliaments; and we are persuaded no House of Commons hereafter will assent to such a motion, because they are not easily wont to part with a power they have assumed; and it is certain that they have several times taken upon themselves to exercise an authority like that which they have so severely reflected on in this Address." "These addresses," says the historian, "were drawn up by the Lord Somers, and were read over and critically considered by a few Lords, of whom I had the honour to be one.
"This, with the other papers that were published by the Lords, made a great impression on the body of the nation, and gave rise to very unfavourable contrasts between the conduct of the Lords and Commons." 63 64 65 66 H. Grattan 67 "That an humble address be presented to his Majesty, praying that his Majesty be graciously pleased to take such measures as to his Majesty may seem advisable for the effectual discouragement of Orange lodges, and generally of all political societies, including persons of a different religious faith, using secret signs and symbols, and acting by means of associated branches." "We fully participate with your Majesty in the feelings of deep regret and just indignation with which your Majesty has seen the continuance of attempts to excite the people of this country to demand a repeal of the Legislative Union. We thank your Majesty for the renewed assurance of your Majesty's final and unalterable resolution, under the blessing of Divine Providence, to maintain this bond of our national strength and safety inviolate, by all the means in your Majesty's power, and we assure your Majesty, that in the support of this determination your Majesty may rely with confidence on our zealous and effectual cooperation.
"We fully concur in the opinion of your Majesty, that the practices which have been
 68 69 70 71 "We have often said that in no county of Ireland was there more striking patriotism than in Sligo; and our observations have been confirmed by Lord Mulgrave's reception. Never before was there such a display. Lord Mulgrave was followed into the town by at least 40,000 persons. We never before saw such a concourse. On his arrival at the courthouse the doors were found to be closed, although they were the doors of his own court house, or of the Queen's, whose representative he is. He had to enter into his own courthouse by the back way. The populace, however, soon burst open the gates, and possessed themselves of the court, where, to their credit, they behaved themselves as if the judges had been there. Lord Mulgrave then went to the gaol, when he liberated some persons who were confined for minor offences. 72 73 74 75 data "Beware
Of entrance to quarrels; but being in,Bear it that the opposer may beware of thee." 76 "That, on the 13th day of March last, a motion was made in this House for the production of various documents connected with the state of Ireland in respect to crime and outrage, including communications made to the Irish government relating to offences connected with ribandism, and all memorials, resolutions, and addresses, forwarded to the Irish government by magistrates, or other official persons, in respect of crimes and outrages committed in Ireland, and the answers thereto.
"That the period included within the returns so called for extends from the commencement of the year 1835 to the present time; and that the motion made for the production of them was assented to by this House, no opposition to it having been offered on the part of her Majesty's Government.
"That on the 21st day of March last the House of Lords appointed a select committee 'to inquire into the state of Ireland since the year 1835, in respect to crime and outrage, which have rendered life and property insecure in that part of the empire.
"That, in consequence of the appointment of such committee by the House of Lords, it has been proposed, that this House should resolve That it is the opinion of this House that it is expedient to persevere in those principles which have guided the executive government of Ireland of late years, and which have tended to the effectual administration of the law and the general improvement of that part of the United Kingdom.'
"Resolved, That it appears to this House that the appointment of a committee of inquiry by the House of Lords, under the circumstances, and for the purpose above mentioned, does not justify her Majesty's Ministers in calling upon this House without previous inquiry, or even the production of the information which this House has required, to make a declaration of opinion with respect to one branch of the public policy of the executive government, still less a declaration of opinion which is neither explicit as to the principles which it professes to approve, nor definite as to the period to which it refers; and that it is not fitting that this House should adopt a proceeding which has the appearance of calling in question the undoubted right of the House of Lords to inquire into the state of Ireland in respect to crime and outrage, more especially when the exercise of that right by the House of Lords does not interfere
 77
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  said, the hon. Member for Belfast inculpated the Government of Lord Normanby, and accused his Administration as being a mockery of justice, so far as regarded the trial of offenders, in the face of the official returns granted only the night before in that House. But the hon. Member also had the misfortune to differ from the right hon. Baronet, whose amendment the hon. Member meant to support. The right hon. Baronet, both in his speech and in his amendment, disclaimed any censure, whereas the whole tone of the speech the House had just heard went directly to cast a censure on the Government. The hon. Baronet said, he should not consider his amendment a vote of censure. Now he should, and so would the country; and the people of Ireland ought to be much obliged to the noble Lord for calling upon the House to declare, that the general spirit of the policy of the Administration, and of the Executive Government in Ireland, was satisfactory to them. It was necessary to do so, in order to secure future Governments from being intimidated by adverse majorities in the House of Lords, or charges and insinuations in this House. He wished it to be distinctly understood, that he confined himself only to the period since 1835—that being the duration of the Marquess of Normanby's Government. He would remind the House that as they were already aware the number of convictions had increased in proportion to the offences, that Catholics had been raised to the bench, that many able assistant barristers of the same creed had been appointed, that many appointments of Catholics in the constabulary had been made, and that also a greater spirit of liberality, and indeed of equality, had been manifested in the offices and appointments in municipal corporations during the Administration of the noble Lord. No complaint could be alleged against these appointments. There could be no charge made against the noble Lord for not directly discountenancing the Precursor
 120 121 No, no, 122
 Colonel Perceval  said, that it had seldom fallen to his lot to hear such exaggerated statements as those which had been made with reference to Lord Lorton, by the hon. Member who had just addressed the House. He had had the pleasure of knowing that noble Lord long, and he could say of him with perfect truth, that for good-nature and kind-heartedness, for a benevolent regard to the wants and to the interests of his tenants, Lord Lorton had, during a long life, as a resident landlord in Ireland, set an example which would be well worthy of imitation in this or any other country. As a benefactor to his tenants, and in all the relations of private life, that noble Lord had no superior; and he owned that it was with much surprise he had heard the hon. Member who had last addressed the House send forth such calumnies on the authority of a person signing himself "Agricola," in a newspaper known to be opposed to the politics of the noble Lord. What were the simple facts of the case which had been so grossly exaggerated? Some time ago Lord Lorton had succeeded to an estate in the county of Longford, and on examining into its condition he found that the land had been so subdivided, that many of the tenants of small parcels of land had not enough for their support, and some of them were
 123 Laughter.
 Colonel Perceval  had not alluded to the hon. Member, who he was sure would not interrupt him willingly. He repeated that the cultivation of flax was resorted to as a means of improving the estate; and a man and his wife were brought from the county of Down to superintend its cultivation. That man was murdered, as was another who was brought to supply his place. They were Protestants. All efforts to discover the murderers proved unavailing, and his noble Friend did what any other man in his circumstances would have done. He exercised his right of property, and had many of the tenants removed from his estate by civil process, executed by the sheriff of the county, accompanied by a military force. He then took down forty-five houses, but not until he had provided lodgings in a neighbouring village for the women and children who had inhabited those houses. What was there, he would ask, in this conduct, which should warrant the hon. Member (Mr. S. O'Brien) to brand it on the authority of an anonymous writer, with terms which he would not repeat? Would any English landlord have acted thus; and if he had found it necessary to eject some of his tenants, would he have given them up their rent, found them
 124
 Mr. S. O. Brien : I am perfectly willing to take the facts as the hon. and gallant Member states them.
 Colonel Perceval  continued. Yes; he knew the facts to be true, for he had seen thorn so stated under the hand of the noble Lord; and he regretted the absence of a right hon. Friend, who had in his possession the documents that would prove the correctness of what he said. He would not, however, advert further to the case of Lord Lorton, but would turn to the conduct of Her Majesty's Government in Ireland. On a former occasion, when this subject was discussed, he had heard the noble Lord, the Chief Secretary for Ireland, justify the deplorable state of the country. The noble Lord had admitted the fact, but justified it by saying that it was in as bad a condition when Lord Normanby undertook the Government, and named certain counties that were in a very disturbed state at that time. But amongst those counties he thought the noble Lord did not name the one in which he (Colonel Perceval) resided, namely, the county of Sligo, and he would say, that when Lord Normanby succeeded to the Administration that county was in a state of tranquillity surpassed by no other in either Ireland or England. There were no disturbances, no murders, no outrages, but it was as free from crime as any part of the empire. What was its condition now? How did it originate? Why, the very first step of Lord Normanby's Government caused the commencement of what since had taken place. He saw the cavalcade of Lord Normanby's entrance into Dublin, and it was such as, in his opinion was most unbecoming in one about to fill so high an office as that of viceroy of Ireland. It might be said that it was only displeasing to Orangemen, but to this he would reply, that from the time the act passed for the abolition of Orange societies, there had never been a single demonstration of that party spirit in Sligo. But what were his feelings when he saw Lord Normanby attended by a  cortège No, no. 125 126 l.
 Viscount Powerscourt  said, that un-willing as he was to trespass upon the time of the House, he felt himself imperatively called upon not to give a silent vote upon that occasion. He most sincerely rejoiced that a serious discussion of that subject had at length been forced upon her Majesty's Ministers in that House, in consequence of what had taken place with regard to it in the other House of Parliament. And he felt this the more strongly, as he considered that the subject of the Government of Ireland, whenever it had come under discussion, had been hitherto treated in a manner altogether unworthy of its importance. He had heard it observed by a noble Lord in another place, when defending himself against an attack in connexion with this subject, that the accusations brought against the Government upon examination generally resolved themselves into petty details and single instances, and he thought that that observation contained in it much that was true and well-founded. It was, no doubt, a good thing to enter into details, and to bring strong facts before the attention of the public, but there was something wanting besides that—there was wanting an inquiry whether those facts were isolated cases, or whether they were only instances of a general course of action. The defence set up by the Irish Government when any flagrant case was brought before either House of Parliament, was commonly a more or less candid confession of the fact, which was too stubborn to be refuted, accompanied by very penitent, but altogether useless, regrets,
 136 137 138 139 140
 Mr. D. O' Conor  would detain the House for only a few moments. He felt bound to vote against the amendment of the right hon. Baronet opposite, and in favour of the motion of the noble Lord. The terms on which the Committee of the House of Lords had been moved for, were evidently an impeachment of the Irish policy of the Government, and amounted in reality to a vote of censure upon the Government of Lord Normanby. The period over which the investigation was to extend, and the language in which the resolution was couched, rendered it perfectly clear that the conduct of Lord Normanby was the reason for the appointment of the Committee; for it was stated that the inquiry was to be into the state of crime and outrage in Ireland, from the year 1835, which it was asserted had rendered life and property insecure in that part of the empire. The appointment of the Committee was, therefore, in his opinion, a direct censure upon the conduct of Government with respect to Ireland, and, surely, therefore, the Government had a right to call upon that House for an expression of opinion in regard to their Irish policy, and it could not be doubted that
 141 142
 Colonel Conolly  could not understand how the noble Lord opposite, who during the previous Session had challenged hon. Members at his side of the House to try the question of an impeachment, could with any consistency shrink from even the severest scrutiny on the part of the other House, and endeavour to evade it by procuring a declaration of the Commons of England, without any reference to the facts of the case. Neither could he understand how, under all the circumstances of the case, with all the nearly insuperable difficulties of detecting and punishing crime in Ireland staring them in the face, any set of men could have the effrontery to propose to the representatives of the British nation a resolution of this description, stating that the principles upon which the Irish Government had been recently conducted, had tended to the efficient maintenance of the law. Why, they appeared to him to have selected the very terms which were declaratory of the most fatal point connected with their administration. He contended, that while they were the sworn servants of the Crown, they had made themselves also the subservient instruments of agitation in Ireland. They had submitted every power within their grasp to the only principle by which they seemed to be guided—the principle of maintaining themselves in office. They had prevented the administration of justice; they had crippled and enfeebled it in every way—in the mode of appointing the sheriffs, until they were forced to alter their system in this respect by the intervention of the Legislature, and, with reference to juries, in the withdrawal of the right both of challenge and reply. These were not his sentiments alone; they were concurred in unanimously, at three county meetings, by the Irish magistrates, whose
 148 l. 149 150
 Mr. L. White  said, he laughed, but not at the hon. Member. He had laughed at the mention of the cultivation of the flax, which was a mere pretence.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  said, that hon. Gentlemen opposite had attempted to make the present a purely Irish question, and to draw those on his side of the House from the vantage ground which they occupied in right of the amendment which had been moved by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. But on his side of the House there was no censure cast upon the Irish policy of the Government; though they certainly had a perfect right to allude to the state of Ireland in discussing the question brought forward by the noble Lord opposite. It was admitted by Lord Normanby, that outrages had not diminished, but that smaller offences had. He did not deny that such was the case, for small crimes, like diseases, always gave way and diminished as great crimes became more prominent. He was not going to defend the landlords against the charges which had been brought against them, but when those charges were made, they were certainly bound to give them the means of replying, and to afford them an opportunity of establishing their innocence. Now, that could be done only by investigation; and, therefore, the course which the other House had adopted, was only an act of justice to those against whom the most gross charges had been made. Nor could it be doubted, that the House of Lords had a perfect right to make inquiry into the state of outrage and crime in Ireland, just as the House of Commons had pursued their inquiry by demanding returns. But there was another circumstance which justified the appointment of a committee on this subject. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had last night stated, that when they got the returns which had been moved for in that House they would not be of a character to be depended upon. Now, surely that was another reason for inquiry, and for obtaining  vivâ voce 143 144 Mr. O'Connell.
 Mr. Lascelles  wished to state the reasons shortly why he had come to the determination of voting in favour of the amendment proposed by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. He must, however, be permitted, first of all, to express his surprise that the hon. and gallant Member should, after the speech he had just delivered, feel it his duty to vote for that amendment. He reverted with pleasure to the speech made by the right hon. Baronet last night, for in that speech there was no statement attributing the crime in Ireland to the existing Government. The right hon. Gentleman had certainly lamented the deplorable state of society which existed in Ireland, and he could not help coming to the conclusion, from all the statements he had heard respecting crime in Ireland, that it was the duty at least of those who were
 127 128
 Mr. Lucas  confessed he had never laboured under greater diffidence than he now experienced in rising to address the House, after the speech of great good humour which they had just heard from the
 158 ad infinitum. s. d. s. 159 160 161 nem. con.
 Mr. James Grattan  said, it was exactly that day fifty-five years, that a motion about Ireland was brought forward in the Irish House of Commons. The object of that motion was, to lay before King George the Third and the people of England, the grounds and the causes of the complaints and jealousies, that then distracted Ireland. That motion passed, and it was on the principles then avowed, on which his hon. Friends near him had governed Ireland during the last four years. It asserted that all classes were alike entitled to the equal protection of the law, and the equal enjoyment of liberty, and that they would not rest until those rights had been obtained. And further, that it was only King, Lords, and Commons, that had a right to make laws for Ireland. On the 16th of April, 1782, the motion passed. Ireland was then made free. Liberty was for the first time enjoyed, and the Catholics were admitted to the privileges of the Constitution. The country then rose to a pitch of glory and prosperity, such as had been unknown. But the seeds of discord had unhappily been sown between Catholics and Protestants, and the same arguments now advanced by the Gentlemen opposite were advanced then, and they succeeded in destroying the peace of the country, and distracting the operation of the principles of the Constitution. Now, he asked Hon. Gentlemen opposite, whether they were prepared, after experiencing the consequences, to return to the period of misfortune and error? The Liberal party did not, as had been alleged, call for a coun-
 151 152 Laughter 153 "Berlin, Oct. 12, 1835. "Gentlemen—Having been absent from home, and attending to the reviews at Kalisch and Toplitz, it was only on my return here that I received the address voted to me by the Grand Lodge of Longford, on the 17th Sep. I lose, therefore, no time in returning you my sincere thanks, and in again assuring you now in writing, of that which I have publicly stated on more occasions than one, that in accepting the high office of Grand Master of the Orangemen of the United Kingdom, I am fully determined to act up to the principles of that loyal body—principles in which, from my earliest youth, my venerable and ever-to-be-lamented father, George the Third, educated me, in common with all his children, and in which I have studiously educated my son. That I am become the object of abuse and malevolence of the enemies of good order and loyalty, I am not surprised at, and am prepared to bear with; for, as I have said, I never will allow myself to retract one iota of our principles, or to give way to machinations, which I know
 154 ERNEST, Grand Master." "1. That we rejoice at the new modelling and more perfect organization of our constitutional association at the annual metropolitan meeting in Dublin on the 14th, and two succeeding days of November last, and that we return our thanks to the grand lodge and their committee, for their zeal and activity on that occasion. That the appointment of Lord Fortescue, the declared enemy of the Church of Ireland, to be viceroy of this island, has been a source of deep alarm to us, and that we hope the Queen's most excellent Majesty, recollecting her coronation oath so lately taken, will cancel that appointment, convinced as we are, that otherwise it will be attended with the most disastrous consequences. 3. That our cordial thanks are due, and are hereby given to Edward Litton, Esq. the worthy representative of our town, for his prompt and steady opposition to the second reading of the Irish Corporation Bill, which we trust, will be rejected by the Lords, the hereditary counsellors of the Crown." 155 "All Protestant Ulster will marshal 150,000 high-hearted Orangemen, who, with the blessing of that God in whom is our trust, will again, through every peril, preserve Ireland as an appendage of the British Crown, and hurl shame and confusion back upon the traitors who shall make the daring attempt to suppress our religion, destroy our constitution, and sever Ireland from Great Britain." "It was unanimously resolved, that the thanks of this meeting, comprising the representatives of 220 lodges, and upwards of 25,000 Orangemen, are due, and are hereby given, to the members of the Grand Orange Lodge of Ireland, for their manly and constitutional declaration made 17th November last, with the spirit of which we heartily coincide; and we take this public opportunity of expressing our implicit confidence in the Grand Lodge as now constituted, and of assuring them of our zealous co-operation, and that we shall at all times be ready to jeopard our lives and property in defence of our beloved and youthful Sovereign, our revered constitution, and the maintenance of the British connection." "Say, Verner! Shall we crouch and whine, Like dogs beneath the lash? In slavery pine, When life were torture, and when death were life? No! though our sentinels have sold the pass— No! though our flag is changed to green from blue, The gates of perfidy are made of glass, Another DIAMOND cuts its bright way through." Laughter. 156 "He laughs, and you laugh, too, no doubt, But one difference is, you're in, he's out." 157
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  said—The principal grounds on which the noble Lord has brought forward this motion, consequent upon the appointment of the Committee in the House of Lords, to inquire into the nature and extent of crime in Ireland, are, first an apprehension of something unconstitutional in that proceeding as a virtual interference with the executive Government; and, secondly, a desire to vindicate the Irish Administration from an implied censure of the House of Lords for the existence of an excess of crime in that country. The right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) in bringing forward hi amendment, has gone so fully into both branches of the subject, and especially into the constitutional view of this proceeding of the noble Lord, that even had it not been my wish to confine myself to the one topic on which the noble Lord has joined issue with the country, namely, the Irish policy of the Government it would have been impossible for me to have found one point in the general question which has not been previously exhausted by his speech. But without presuming to reiterate that ground—without referring to what has been the conduct of former administrations in reference to similar proceedings of the House of Lords, I cannot avoid remarking, that there is something rather extraordinary in the vigour with which the noble Lord has fastened upon this one vote of the House of Lords, when upon many other recent occasions, votes have been passed not only in that House, but in this, which could be regarded in no other light than as a virtual interference with, and censure upon, the executive Government, but upon which, nevertheless, the noble Lord and his colleagues saw no such necessity for resorting to a proceeding like the present for their vindica-
 95 96 97 98 99 s. 100 101 102 103 104 105 "Call it madness, call it folly, You shall not drive my grief away; There's such a charm in melancholy, I would not, if I could, be gay." 106 "It is upon the great and decisive principles which we have adopted, and the maintenance of which, undoubtedly, is absolutely necessary to our character and reputation; as I believe it to be essential to the advantage and benefit of the country. It is upon that great and decisive principle myself and my colleagues are pre-
 107 * "The House of Lords have sent the Bill back, rejecting that which the House of Commons have declared an inseparable part of it. .. How then are we to deal with such a Bill? I content myself with referring to the debates of last year, and the resolutions then passed; and with declaring, that I and those with whom I act, are satisfied of the truth and justice of the principles of those resolutions, and that from those principles we are not ready to depart. It may be a question for the House to consider, whether, having solemnly affirmed those principles, they are now prepared, because the House of Lords has rejected them, to yield them up, important a are, and to endeavour to agree with the Lords upon this subject, either by assenting to the Bill before them, or to some other Bill, which might be introduced, If the Members of the House of Commons were to go to the bar of the House of Lords in that humble guise—recanting their former resolutions—submitting that they had been in error—and that the wisdom of the House of Lords had taught them a lesson of policy which they had not before learned; I must say that I would not accompany the House of Commons on such a message. We are here, prepared to stand by the principles which we have professed. We maintained those principles as an essential part of the final settlement of this question, when we were out of office. With the affirmation of opposite principles now—with the denial of the principles which we have professed—of course it would be our duty to resign—of course it would be our duty no longer to pretend to govern the counsels of this country."† * † See Hansard, Vol. xxxv, p. 768, 769. (Third series). 108 "Willing to wound and yet afraid to strike," 109 Cheers. 110 "This weapon of their weakness they can wield To wound, defend, at once their spear and shield." 111 112 113 "Why is it," said the hon. Gentleman, "that Catholics are carefully excluded from the list of twenty-six stipendiary magistrates, who have been recently appointed in Ireland? Why are they carefully excluded from such situations, and twenty-six foreigners appointed to them?" Several hon. Members here cried, "Hear, hear." "Yes," continued Mr. Hume, "I contend that they are foreigners—they are persons foreign in their habits and religion to the bulk of the people—and I say then that foreigners have been appointed to these offices,……. Suppose that there were twenty-six magistrates to be appointed in England, what would the people of England say, if none but Catholics were selected to fill these offices. But what would be said if none but Catholics were nominated to every lucrative office in the country? Would this be borne in England? Then why should the system be endured in Ireland? I am only astonished that the people of this country have borne with it so long." 114 "On the first night I appeared here as Minister, I declared that the three great and leading objects of my Administration should be a Reform in Parliament, peace, and economical Reform"—"No one in this House, or elsewhere, will say that Reform in Parliament is a pledge which I have not redeemed. Peace was the next principle of my Government—and how was it maintained? We have not only maintained tranquillity, but we now leave the Government, having secured a greater probability of the peace of Europe being continued than when we took office. With respect to economical Reform, we have taken off four million five hundred thousand pounds of taxation. Places have been abolished, and the patronage of the Crown diminished to a degree, with regard to which I feel bound, in honesty and justice, to admit that my only doubt, is, whether we have not done rather too much. With respect to the internal state of the country we leave trade in a sound and healthy condition—manufacturers generally employed—public credit improved—the revenue greatly increasing, and all interests in a better condition, with one single exception—the depression of agriculture, less affecting the tenantry than the landlord, through a reduction of rents. The political and trades' unions have disappeared, we asserted the powers of the law as it stood for their suppression, and by administering it with a firm hand, the result has been complete success." * * 115 116 "That purple land where law secures not life," 117 "Gentlemen," says his Lordship, "I assure you it affords me much satisfaction to be enabled to congratulate you on the peaceful state of your county, not only as exhibited in
 118 'How small, of all that human hearts endure, The part, which kings or laws can cause or cure!' 119
 Mr. Bellew : Sir, as an Irish Member, to whose country the present motion is of vital importance, embracing as it does in its results not only its government of latter years, but its destiny for the future, and feeling more over, that while in this House the present debate may be only regarded as one of the ordinary trials of party strength, that in Ireland its consequences will be felt in many a year of happiness or woe to millions of its inhabitants, I trust I shall receive the indulgence of Gentlemen for the short time I shall trespass upon their patience. The attacks upon the government of Lord Normanby have been of such frequent occurrence, that they have been long since deprived of all the interest of novelty. It may, however, afford that noble Lord some consolation to know, that the same men who disparage his government declared his predecessor, the Marquess of Wellesley, to be a man who had neither experience nor ability. It will at the same time afford the public some clue to judge of the value to he attached to the opinions of such persons. One of the most constant topics of attack against Lord Normanby has been his neglect of the interests of the Protestant Church, and his promotion of Catholics to all places of station and trust. Now, with regard to the former charge, it was so totally unfounded that when it came to be discussed, Gentlemen of all sides of the House bore testimony to the admirable manner in which Church patronage had been distributed. Perhaps I may here be allowed to observe that this charge of hostility to the Church seems to be of a very vague nature, and subject to a great variety of interpretations. There was, for example, a petition presented before the recess from the corporation of Dublin, which stated, that destroying the present Irish Corporations, and substituting others of a popular character in their place, would have the effect of seriously injuring the Protestant Church, so that, in the opinion of that very loyal body, a vast majority of this House were pursuing a course as fatal to that establishment as Gentlemen opposite asserted the conduct of Lord Normanby to be.—With regard to the promotion of Catholics, what is the case? Take the law, in which profession there is a greater number of Catholics than any other. There is, it seems, 120,000 l. 130 l., 131 132 133 134 135
 Sir W. Somerville  trusted, that as an Irishman he might be allowed a hearing while he gave his sentiments on the motion then before the House. It seemed to him that they were called upon to give a decided opinion on the conduct of the Government. For himself, and judging from his knowledge of the state of Ireland, and considering the terms of the motion which had been carried in the other House—looking also at the speeches which accompanied that motion, he, for one, could not think otherwise than that it was a vote of censure on the Government. He came to that conclusion upon the ground, that if the right hon. Baronet opposite, (Sir R. Peel) were in power to-morrow, he would be ashamed of himself if he could attribute to the right hon. Baronet all the outrage
 145 146 147
 Mr. Pryme  begged to call the attention of the House to an occurrence which had taken place in the early part of
 162
 Mr. Pryme  moved, that under the special circumstances of the cases, those Members of the committees on the Commercial (London and Blackwall) Railway Bill, and on the Great North of England Railway Bill, who signed the declaration as appointed by the Committee of Selection after the chair was taken, but before any other business had commenced, be authorized to attend and vote in the said committees respectively.
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  thought it but fair to say, that he was not aware of the circumstances referred to by his hon. Friend. He sincerely hoped that the statement was exaggerated.
 Sir E. L. Bulmer  thought, looking at the party with whom the vote of the House of Lords had originated, that there could be no doubt that it was intended as a vote of censure; and under such circumstances, he thought the Ministry against whom it was directed, could not do otherwise than come down to the House of Commons for an expression of its approval and confidence. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel) had laid down the proposition that it was not proper to submit abstract resolutions, unless on a great emergency, or under peculiar circumstances. That was the right hon. Gentleman's general axiom; but he must say, that he could not conceive any circumstances more peculiar than the appointment of a committee by the House of Lords, which arrogated to itself a constitutional prerogative of the Sovereign; nor any emergency greater than the consideration of the whole policy pursued by her Majesty's Government towards a third part of the empire. The right hon. Gentleman had argued that the Government was not justified in calling for a partial vote of approbation on a particular branch of their policy. The answer to this argument was short and obvious—because one particular branch of their policy only had been called in question. The right hon. Gentleman asserted, too, that there was no ground of difference on legislative measures between the Government and the House of Lords, and that he did not see why the executive policy should be made the subject of a distinct vote of approval. Why, the plain cause of the Government's proceeding was, that though they did not feel themselves called upon to defend those I legislative measures which had been too often curtailed of their best provisions by those opposed to them, the executive government was at all events under their immediate and exclusive control, and that they could not consent to be made tributary to the views of the House of Lords. The right hon. Gentleman was very sarcastic on Lord Glenelg; but the right hon. Gentleman's manner neither suited the gravity of the subject, nor was it in keeping with his high reputation as a statesman; if the
 187 188 189 190
 Mr. Pigot : It is not my intention to engage in a discussion with reference to what passed at the meetings at the theatre in Dublin, or with reference to any transactions which were intended to take place there, but did not take place. Neither is it my intention to go into some of the topics that have been touched upon by my hon. and learned Friend who has just sat down; and certainly least of all do I intend to trouble the House with any observations upon the subject of Irish municipal corporations. I may, perhaps, be permitted to congratulate my hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Litton) upon having shed rather a new light upon the present motion, as well as upon the resolution of the House of Lords; for I think it has for the first time been suggested by him that the object of the inquiry in the Lords is, not to ascertain the extent of crime, or the cause of crime, in Ireland, but to go into a transaction which has over and over again been discussed in both Houses of Parliament, namely, whether upon the subject of writs of rebellion, Government have extended enough or too little assistance to carry into effect legal rights resulting from the decisions of the legal tribunals of the country. My hon. and learned Friend says, that the Government of Ireland have exhibited gross partiality; and be seemed
 196 197 "Order." 198 199 200 201 202 203 204 205 206 "With reference to the annexed criminal returns, I beg leave to mention that, as clerk of the peace, I have no means of ascertaining the number of committals in the year. I can only give a return of the number of persons included in the different bills of indictment at each session. So if one person is indicted for three offences (suppose riot, rescue, and assault), by the annual return he appears as three." 207 208 "That it is essential for the efficiency and attainment of all compatible service from a constabulary force, 1st, that the constables should be trained or appointed from a trained force; 2dly, that neither, by appointment nor otherwise, should they be privately connected with the dispute in which they act; 3dly, that they should at periods be changed from district to district; and, 4thly, that whilst they should act under local direction for the performance of various local and administrative duties, for the repression of the practices of migratory depredators, vagrancy, and offences which concern the community at large more than the particular locality, they must act under general rules and principles, and in subordination to general directions from one general and responsible executive authority." 209
 Lord John Russell  said, he thought the declaration should be made previously to any act of the Committee, but the rule ought not to be so rigidly enforced as to disqualify Members who might come in two or three minutes after the commencement of the proceedings. He thought that the Members who had attended this morning should be allowed to act.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the question was one of importance to him, and he would be too glad if the House should decide that he was excluded. He held it to be perfectly clear, that if the memorandum was equally authentic with the declaration, that he and the other Members who entered the room after the chairman was appointed, were, in that case, disqualified from taking any share in the proceedings of the Committee. But the memorandum was not, in his opinion, equally binding on the House; and, as regarded the provisions of the declaration, he was certain, that all the Members who were interested in this question would have complied with its provisions, by making themselves thoroughly acquainted with the evidence.
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  said, the question was one of some importance, and he hoped it would be decided by the House. In the Committee on the London and Southampton Railway the Members who had not voted for the election of Chairman were
 166
 Mr. Litton  said, that in the few observations which he should address to the House in explanation of the vote which he intended to give in favour of the Amendment, he should not trouble them pith any of those wearisome details to which he was aware he could scarcely, on the present occasion, expect their attention. But this he would say, that after the experience of
 191 192 193 194 H. Grattan: 195
 Mr. Shaw  said, that many of the topics upon which the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had dilated—he would not say improperly, since they had been introduced into the debate by speakers on his own side of the House—were altogether foreign to the subject of the present debate. He thought that some of the observations of the hon. Member for Belfast had not been rightly stated by the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down. The hon. Member for Belfast had not, as he understood, objected to the appointment of sheriffs in Tipperary, but particularly in Sligo; as well as generally throughout Ireland; and as to the appointment of sheriffs in general, he (Mr. Shaw) would make one observation. He believed that the committee appointed by the House of Lords last year had produced a very salutary change in the practice with regard to the removal of sheriffs. With respect to what had been said by the hon. and learned Member upon the practice of challenging jurors, he (Mr. Shaw) must say it would lead to the greatest inconvenience if it were necessary always to assign the reasons of such challenges. Then the hon. and learned Member had alluded to Judge Perrin, and had adduced that
 210 data 211 212 213 l., l. 214 Ryan." Name. Name. 215 Name. 216 217
 Mr. Grote  said, Sir, the House has heard, both yesterday and to-day, many speeches from Irish Gentlemen on both sides of the House, who naturally take a warm interest ill the present debate, and who have entered very largely into the detail of Irish administration. I trust the House will not impute it to any want of interest in the welfare of Ireland, if I decline to follow them through those various statements. I will only say, that the narra-
 179 180 181 182 183
 Mr. Barron  replied, that there was not the slightest exaggeration in the statement. He had the names of all the parties, and could produce them. His hon. Friend did not know of the circumstances, because when they occurred he was with his regiment.
 Mr. Barron  believed, that the House would agree with him that he had not mentioned the name of the noble Lord until pressed to do so. He had stated facts which he knew. His property adjoined the property of the noble Lord, and some of the wretched tenantry of the noble Lord were literally dependent upon the charity of some of his own tenants. Some of the tenants, too, who had been ejected were living seven miles from the demesne of the noble Lord. The greater portion of those ejected were distant from the demesne, and were to be found in the town of Kilmacthomas.
 Mr. Barron  said, he certainly had alluded to him. He had alluded distinctly to what had taken place on the property of the Marquess of Waterford. In the county of Waterford, there were on the estate of the Marquess of Waterford, since the election of 1826 up to 1839, and some within the last six months, upwards of 1,200 individuals turned out of their houses.
 Mr. Barron  said, that if he had consulted his own personal feelings he should not have said one word on this question, but the duty which he owed his constituents prevented his being silent, and he should be guilty of a breach of duty, if he did not bear his testimony in favour of the policy of Lord Normanby in his government of Ireland. The policy of that noble Marquess had conduced materially to the improvement of Ireland, as he could prove from public documents, and from his own personal knowledge as a magistrate and landed proprietor. The country had progressed in manufactures, it had progressed in trade, it had progressed in commerce; and most undoubtedly the value of landed property had increased very much within the last seven years. He could prove this from documents and facts that defied contradiction. He could clearly prove in the words of the resolution of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, that the administration of the law also had considerably improved, and that the general state of the country was one of progressive improvement. These were subjects capable of demonstration. He would ask men differing from him in political opinions, if this were not the case with his part of Ireland, concerning which only he could bear testimony as having come under his own observation? To commence with trade,—the several branches of trade had considerably improved within the last seven years, and were in a progressive state of improvement. In 1829 the declared value of the corn exported from Ireland was 2,300,000 l., 1., 167 l. l., l., l., 168 "Hear, hear." 169 170 171 Hear, hear! 172 vivas "Væ victis et væ victoribus."
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that the further consideration of the question should he adjourned till to-morrow. He considered, that the signing of the declaration must be considered as the first act of the Committee.
 Mr. Pease  thought, they ought not to draw the cord too tight. If the rule were applied with strict rigidity, it would be attended with very inconvenient results.
 Mr. Estcourt,  as a Member of the Committee of selection, said, that, in his opinion, the declaration and memorandum which the House had directed to be subscribed by Members were clear and explicit.
 164
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that as one of the Members who had entered the Committee-room after disfranchisement, he hoped that he would be allowed to state the circumstances to the House, so far as he was able to understand them, and for that purpose he would refer to the minutes of the proceedings of the Committee. The case had been fairly stated by the hon. Member for Cambridge with this exception, that be had not correctly explained the manner in which the Committee came to a vote. The minutes bore, that after the appointment of the chairman, a doubt had been raised as to the right of Members who had come in after such appointment. The room was cleared, and a motion was
 163
 Mr. Gibson  said, that the hon. Member had made some allusion in the course of his speech to certain tactics which he supposed to have taken place amongst the Conservative party on the subject of the present discussion. He begged to say, that as far as he was concerned he knew of no such tactics, and that if anything of the kind had been notified to him he should have disregarded it, and acted solely upon his own views and discretion. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that he would never permit himself to be made a mere
 184 185 primâ facie 186
 Sir De Lacy Evans  thought, that they ought to consider this matter well before coming to a decision. At about a quarter of an hour before twelve o'clock eight Members only were present. Eleven Members, it appeared, had voted on the appointment of the chairman, and the result was, that the whole matter bad been settled in a few minutes. He, therefore, was of opinion, that the House should consider well before a rigid construction of the rule sought to be applied should be adopted. The result would be, that five or six individual Members favourable to one party, by punctual attendance the first day and hour appointed for a committee to meet, might thus secure preponderance, and exclude all others.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that he thought it was fortunate that the same difficulty should hove so soon arisen in two committees. He was satisfied that, with a view to the
 165
 Sir B. Bateson  denied that the Conservative party hated clemency, as had been stated. The hon. Member (Mr. Barron) had called on them not to hate one another, a sentiment in which he most cordially joined. The hon. Member had begun by alluding to the increase of vested capital in Ireland. There could be no doubt that Ireland had rapidly improved within the last twenty years. But he was astonished to hear the hon. Gentleman
 174 175 176 177 178
 Sir R. Peel  thought words ought to be introduced showing that the present arrangement was but an exception.
 Lord Ingestre  asked the hon. Member if he had alluded to a noble relative of his, as having ejected his tenantry.
 Lord Ingestre  observed, that as to the numbers he knew nothing; but of this he had knowledge—that the tenants had been ejected with their own concurrence. Perhaps he had used a wrong expression; but this he was right in saying, that they had left their cabins with their own consent. A great proportion of the tenantry were in the immediate neighbourhood of the noble Lord's demesne—the cabins were all outside the demesne; and it was thought right,
 173
 Mr. O'Connell.  If there is no motion we must pass on to other business. This comes of improper reading. If the hon. Member had not read the  Times
 Lord Ingestrie  said, that all he had asserted was, that if these tenants were ejected he was confident they had been removed from their habitations with their own consent, and, that a bargain had been made with each of them. If the hon. Member made these allusions, he was bound to substantiate them. He was ready when he got a perfect knowledge of the facts to meet the hon. Member on this and any other ground whenever he liked.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  said, he hoped the House would grant him its indulgence while he stated his reasons for supporting the resolution proposed by the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department. He should support that resolution on a twofold consideration; first, because in itself it contained the expression of a true
 235 236 Gazette, * "Justice was defeated in every possible way. Where the criminal was secured, the witnesses for the Crown were either removed on the approach of his trial, or such was the influence of terror, that it was found impossible to induce them to give evidence. At the late assizes in Cork, the number of persons
 * 237 * 
 
 County and Year. Bills ignored. Tried and Acquitted. Convicted. 
 Cork  1816 242 343 113 
 1817 540 204 70 
 1821 693 180 84 
 1822 543 211 116 
 1838 20 80 63 
 Limerick 1816 139 137 49 
 1817 182 110 47 
 1821 238 101 60 
 (special commis) 
 1838 45 53 60 
 Kerry 1817 no return 204 48 
 1820 — 425 68 
 1838 28 37 45 
 Tipperary 1816 no return 205 76 
 1817 — 144 65 
 1818 — 127 68 
 1838 29 112 165 
 Longford 1819 no return 135 29 
 1820 — 99 18 
 1838 40 55 43 
 Westmeath 1816 no return, 79 55 
 1817 — 90 73 
 1818 — 69 93 
 1819 — 71 38 
 1838 14 27 41 * 238 "But, when the mischief has availed itself of these facilitating circumstances, it finds, besides and beyond all these, a yet deeper and more settled principle to assist and promote its growth. I mean a rooted distrust, among the people, of the intentions of the British Government and legislature—the fatal legacy of six hundred years of injustice and oppression. Strange as it may seem, the sentiment to which I allude, is not usually a feeling of disaffection to the constitution, nor a want of attachment to the Sovereign.…In this respect, the disposition of a great portion of the Irish, with reference to the laws in general, seems to be analogous to that which to a considerable extent prevails in this country with regard to one particular branch of the law; I mean, that which relates to the revenue. …. Somewhat of the same sort of feeling pervades, I am sorry to think, a considerable part of the Irish people, with respect to the law generally. They have a rooted conviction, that it was not made for their benefit. They regard it only as a despotic master; and are but too ready to evince that sentiment whenever the opportunity arrives." * Hansard, vol, vi. New Series, page 1515. 239 "With respect to the long misgovernment of Ireland, he was by no means disposed to deny, what every one who knew anything of the history and condition of Ireland was perfectly aware of, that the early misgovernment of that country, or rather the course which was adopted on its conquest, was one of the main causes of all the evils that had since occurred. The conquest of Ireland had been conducted on principles more adverse to the happiness of the people than any event of a similar nature, that had ever occurred in the history of the world. No attempt had been made on the part of the conqueror to conciliate the conquered, or to amalgamate themselves with the mass of the people. On the contrary, the policy which had been pursued was to keep the two parties distinct and separate; thereby laying the foundation of that bitter animosity which had been since handed down from father to son, and which at that very moment pervaded the minds of the great body of the Irish peasantry." * * 240 241 Evidence of William Swann, Esq. deputy grand secretary, June 2, 1835;— "1443. With regard to the procession on the entrance of Lord Mulgrave, were the flags that were carried on that occasion known to be party flags?—Yes. "1444. The majority of them?—Almost all of them, I should say. 242 "1445. Then, any one seeing those flags would say they were the flags of a party?—Yes, that is my belief. "1446. Did you see amongst those flags any inscription upon them?—Yes; I did see inscriptions on a great many of them. "1447. Will you mention them?—Indeed I cannot take upon me to mention them, except one, 'equal laws.' But to make assurance doubly sure, the witness was further asked, "1453. The one on which you saw 'equal laws,' is that a party flag?—Yes; I consider that a party flag." 243 l. l. 244 "It is manifest, that the gentlemen of Ireland never thought of a radical cure, from overlooking the real cause of the disease, which, in fact, lay in themselves, and not in the wretches they doomed to the gallows. Let them change their own conduct entirely, and the poor will not long riot. Treat them like men who ought to be free as yourselves—put an end to that system of religious persecution which for seventy years has divided the kingdom against itself. In these two things lies the cure of insurrection." "A change of system would not, perhaps, produce immediate effects upon the character of the people; but I believe that its results would be much more speedy than is generally imagined. At all events, the experiment of conciliation is worth the trial—every other expedient has been resorted to, and has totally failed." 245 "In the first place it is obvious, that as the evils to which I have referred are the result of causes most deeply seated, and which have operated for ages, so they cannot admit of any sudden or instantaneous cure. The process of healing must be gradual. But in making this observation I wish to guard against the possible abuse of it. It does not furnish the slightest pretext for indifference or delay in the application of remedial measures. It is, on the contrary, the strongest argument for an immediate recourse to them. Indeed, although I admit, that improvement must be a work of gradation, I certainly conceive, that the rate of its progress depends in no small degree on ourselves; and, if it is heartily pursued and promoted on all sides, I even think it possible, that the effect may be produced with a rapidity on which we should in the first instance he far from calculating." 246
 Sir D. Roche  said, he had presented a great number of petitions to the House, praying that the Irish Government should not be handed over to the Orange party, and in this prayer he entirely concurred. From the statement of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, it was evident that there would soon be no difference between the Protestants and Catholics of Ireland; and in the part of the country with which he was acquainted, there was just as much security for the one as the other. A long period of time would elapse before the people of Ireland could forget the treatment they had received at the hands of the Government of the Tories. He remembered when the first detachment of a body facetiously called "Peace Preservers," were sent to the county of Limerick. That body of police were then commanded by the late Mr. Going, and they left scarcely anything undone to an-
 250
 Mr. Barron  said, previous to the Order of the Day being read, he wished to call the attention of the House to what he considered to be a breach of privilege. He had made a statement to the House last night, and there appeared in the  Times Times Times O'Connell Times Times
 Mr. E. Tennent  had to beg the indulgence of the House for a very few minutes, to explain some mis-statements, unconscious ones, he must hope, of the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Solicitor-General for Ireland, in his reply last night to his (Mr. E. Tennent's) speech of the evening before, and which, as indisposition had prevented his attendance last evening, he was unable to detect on the moment. He perceived in one of the morning papers, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had represented him as stating, that "at the special commission for Tipperary, juries had been selected by sheriffs appointed for the purpose of corrupting justice at its fountain head." On this assertion the hon. and learned Gentleman had actually commented, but he (Mr. E. Tennent) had never made any such absurd and monstrous statement with regard to the Irish government. What he had said was this, that the effects of the system by which sheriffs had, till lately, been appointed by Lord Normanby, had been to admit a very low and very dangerous class of cess-payers on the petty panels, and thus to lead to the undue acquittal of prisoners; but, that so far from imputing any such conduct to the sheriff of Tipperary on the late occasion, he had instanced his conduct only to praise it as an illustration of a totally opposite system, by which a higher class of jurors had been summoned and convictions obtained. Again the hon. and learned Memher had represented him, as saying, that the government "had utterly abandoned the privilege of setting aside jurors, and, that this accusation was unsustained by the fact." He (Mr. E. Tennent) had never made any such accusation. On the contrary, he had quoted the very words of the two noble Lords (Morpeth and J. Russell), to show the
 234
 Mr. Plumptre  was convinced that one of the principal causes of the disturbed state in which Ireland was at present situated, was the want of scriptural knowledge amongst the people, who were completely under the influence of a numerous, ignorant, immoral, and political priesthood. The Popish religion, which was the cause of so much misery and social evil in Ireland, was supported by the present Administration, and therefore it afforded him strong ground to indicate his opinion of that policy by giving his warmest support to the excellent amendment of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-worth. The priesthood of Ireland added to their other oppressions a constant practice of thundering forth to the ignorant people the terrors of another world, in order to sway them for their own purposes; and the lamentable effects of that conduct were obvious in Ireland. That country could not present any other than a lamentable picture so long as the sacred Scriptures were kept from the people, or explained away, and their meaning tortured by notes and comments. The Scriptures were the true and only true guide to teach the people their duties to God and man, and so long as the sacred volume was withheld from the majority of the population in Ireland the country would continue disturbed and unsettled. Give the people of Ireland a full and free use of the Scriptures, and a change would be brought about which could not be effected by any other means. He was opposed to the present Ministry because her Majesty's Government was supporting Popery in Ireland instead of strengthening the Protestant religion, as they were bound to do. He did not look upon the motion of the House of Lords as a vote of censure upon Ministers, and therefore he thought the proposition of the noble Lord uncalled
 256
 Mr. John Young  said, the objects and opinions of the party he had the honour to be connected with, had been portrayed in harsh and revolting colours. Hon. Gentlemen opposite had fallen into the very error they deprecated in others; they should recollect this—for but little good could result from infusing such acrimony into the debate—a great part of the deplorable evils to which Ireland was subject, must be attributed to causes of long standing—to religious engrafted upon national distinctions—to the state of property—and to the extreme poverty, no less than the extreme ignorance of vast masses of the people. The cure of such evils undoubtedly required time, and the prolonged operation both of moral and material remedies. In most cases they lay beyond the immediate power and sphere of action of the executive—therefore it was, that he had long considered, that the increase of outrage at any given time hardly afforded grounds for attacking or reproaching Ministers, while on the other hand, a diminution could seldom be fairly converted by them into the subject matter of applause and self gratulation. The question before the House, was not simply the comparative tranquillity or disturbance of Ireland. It involved other results, and was to be tried on something of a different issue. Certain facts had been strongly stated on one side and denied on the other. They were shortly—that a chief governor had gone over to Ireland at a time of great excitement, when after a long and violent struggle every link of the penal code had been unrivetted; the Roman Catholic had been raised to perfect equality with his Protestant fellow subject, and the effect of the Reform Bill had been to throw the great weight of' political power into his hands. The exultation of the successful party was unbounded, and it was prepared to push its victory without temper or moderation. The annihilation of the Protestant Church was spoken of not as an end, but as an easy step towards further progress. At this conjuncture the chief governor, instead of trying to moderate excitement, and draw parties closer together, by reconciling differences and softening down
 247 248 249
 Mr. Hume  thought that the picture which had just been drawn by the hon. Member for Kent of the miseries of Ireland, said more in support of the noble Lord's motion than anything that had yet been advanced on the subject, because now, for the first time, for ages, the miseries of that long misgoverned country were sympathised in by the Ministers of the Crown, whose conduct met with a hearty and grateful acknowledgment from the people. The hon. Member had spoken of the crimes and particularly the murders, which took place in Ireland. But he very much doubted whether, if the same returns of crimes were made in England as in Ireland, the comparison would show that there was less of crime and murder in the latter than in the former kingdom. This very day, as he passed from the City, he had inquired as to the proceedings of the Central Criminal Court. He was told that the sessions were closed, but that there had been 380 persons tried; and that large number was only of five or six weeks' collection. Now let them compare the enormous amount of crime, in London alone, with some of the counties of Ireland, in one of which there had been two maiden assizes immediately following one another. The party opposite had supported Lord Grey in passing that most tyrannical and pernicious measure the Coercion Act; and he well recollected the horror with which the details of crime and misery, stated by the noble Lord (Stanley) who moved that measure in this House, were listened to. The county of Kilkenny was the first county in which martial law was proclaimed in virtue of that measure; but, from being the chief scat of agitation and outrage, as it then was, how different was its condition now? In the charge to the grand jury of the assistant barrister, on the 12th instant, the learned gentleman congratulated the grand jury upon the fact that there were only sixteen cases in the calendar, several of which were committed anterior to the previous session, and all of which were for very slight offences. He took occasion further to
 260 261 262 Derry Standard 263
 Mr. Hume  stated, that he had given notice to the hon. and gallant Member of the intention at a convenient opportunity to try Mr. Gurney's new light. That trial had been made upon a small scale, at which the hon. and gallant Member, notwithstanding the notice he had received, did not attend; but the Speaker, together with himself and other hon. Members, did, and the result of that experiment was, that it was thought desirable that Mr. Gurney should have an opportunity of trying the effects of his light on the House; and therefore it was that the present preparations had been made.
 Mr. Hume  said, Mr. Gurney offered to make the experiment at his own expense, if, when the lights had been tried, the House intrusted him with the lighting of the House. But the Chancellor of the Exchequer had preferred so far sanctioning the experiment as to allow him 100 l.
 Dr. Lefroy  trusted, that the House would feel, that he had a reasonable claim on its indulgence, when they recollected, that his name and that of a noble Friend of his had been mentioned in connexion with certain charges which he had reason to suppose would not be brought forward again, after the full and satisfactory answer which had been given to them on a former occasion. These charges, however, must be met as often as they were brought forward, although they were quite irrelevant to the question before the House. It had been stated, and stated truly, that in the course of the present month Lord Lorton had taken possession of some property which he had recovered in ejectment, in consequence of the refusal of the tenant to give up possession. The state of the country required, that the writ of execution should be carried into effect by a large military force; and that such a force was necessary the House would perceive from the fact, that whilst the sheriff was executing the writ, the priest of the parish came to the place with a large concourse of persons, and having knelt down, cursed Lord Lorton and Lord Lorton's agent, and heaped upon their heads the most awful imprecations that the tongue of man could utter. Whatever was then done was done by the sheriff in the necessary exercise of his duty, in order to give possession to the rightful owner of the property. To the circumstances which had led to the necessity of the ejectment in question he would beg leave shortly to call the attention of the House. The property was originally in the possession
 264 Dublin Evening 265
 Mr. Redington  had heard with surprise, not unmixed with indignation, the remarks of the hon. Member who had just sat down. As a Catholic he could not sit silent while he heard such calumnies upon his religion and its priesthood. He would not in that place enter into any discussions upon religious questions, because he knew it was not the proper place for them, but he must say of them, that probably the intensity of the bigotry out of which they rose was equalled by the sincerity of the hon. Member's opinion on the subject. The hon. Member had made use of statements with respect to the Catholic religion and priesthood of Ireland which not only the Catholic, but very many of the Protestant Members present, knew to be utterly unfounded, except in bigotry and intolerance. He was unwilling to use strong language, but considering the calumnies by which his religion had been attacked, he hoped the House would excuse him if he had used it. The hon. Member (Mr. Plumptre) had held out the free use of the Scriptures as a remedy for the evils of Ireland. Was he (Mr. Redington) to take the county of Kent as an example in this respect for all the counties in England and Ireland? He would suppose that the cathedral of Canterbury was filled with clergymen all zealous in the performance of their duties, and that all the other clergymen of that county were equally devoted to their spiritual duties; but with all this was he, then, to take that county as an example for all others? Did the hon. Member for East Kent remember what took place in that county last year? Did he recollect who were the deluded followers of the impostor Thom?—and if he did let the hon. Member compare the ignorance of those followers with the intelligence of those who sent him (Mr. Redington) to that House as their representative. He was sure the comparison would turn out to the advantage of his constituents though they were Catholics. He would support the motion of the noble Lord because he felt that the laws were equally administered to all under the Government of Lord Normanby. It was said by hon. Members opposite that the motion for inquiry which had been carried in the House of Lords was not meant as a censure
 257
 Mr. W. Roche  said, that the hon. Member for Warwick, who had just resumed his seat, had indulged himself very largely in a strain of censure and condemnation on the general policy of her Majesty's Ministers, but scarcely condescended to touch upon their policy towards Ireland, which was the particular if not exclusive object of debate; that, therefore, he (Mr. Roche) would not refer to the hon. Gentleman's arguments, leaving them to be so much more effectively refuted by Ministers themselves should they deem it necessary to do so. He proceeded to say, that amply as both sides of the House endeavoured to sustain their arguments and views by facts, incidents, and statistics, he did not mean to avail of those supports, but to confine himself to a few general observations in defence of his determination to vote for the motion, or rather the resolution, proposed to the House by the noble Secretary for the Home Department. That he would do so not only cordially but gratefully, persuaded as he was that that noble Lord, his colleagues, and their late excellent representative in Ireland, the Marquess of Normanby, were brought to the
 252 253 254 255
 Sir C. Douglas  was understood to say, that he was perfectly certain of what the consequences would be, if on an occasion
 251
 Sir E. Knatchbull  asked at whose expense these experiments had been made, and by whose authority.
 Sir F. Trench  only asked justice. He now moved—"That the ten branches removed from each lustre during the recess (each holding two candles) be replaced; and that Mr. Rixon be directed to colour the inside of the shades with distemper of
 232
 Sir F. Trench  wished to ask by what responsible authority the new operations for lighting the House now carrying on had been commenced. If hon. Members would only turn their eyes to the ceiling, they would there see eight lenses far greater than those employed by Archimedes at the burning of Syracuse.
 Sir F. Trench  said, that as remarks had been made on a green flag being carried before Lord Normanby on his entrance into Dublin, he must certainly admit, that he bad a love for the colour of his native country, but at the same time he should have wished that the green flag had borne a crown as well as an Irish harp emblazoned upon it. He had listened last night to the speech of the right hon. the Attorney-General for Ireland with great expectation, but with great disappointment; for the right hon. Gentleman had not only in-
 258 259
 Sir James Graham  said, that the noble Lord who had just sat down had expressed his opinion, that the House ought to come to the vote on the present occasion with reference to the conduct of the Administration; and in that wish he begged most heartily to join. He trusted that the House would pardon him for having risen, though not an Irishman nor a Representative of Ireland, before the motion now under consideration was brought to the vote, notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, and he hoped that he might venture to address to them a few words on the question now before the Chair. He could not presume to follow the noble Lord (Lord Morpeth) through all the details respecting the present state of Ireland into which he had very properly entered, and which were immediately connected with the office which the noble Lord held, he would merely refer to that part of his speech in which the noble Lord had said, that the motion which bad been brought forward, and for which they were this evening called upon to vote, was considered by him, and was thus to be considered by every Member of the House, as a direct vote of approbation. The noble Lord had told them that he and the other Members of the Government with whom he was associated would no longer consent to exist by sufferance. In answering the speech of the hon. Member for London (Mr. Grote), and in alluding to the motion of the bon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Duncombe), the noble Lord had stated that
 293 294 295 296 297 298 299 300 "There has always been in Ireland a combination connected with competition as to the tenure of land; but that any combination which may exist at present has the least connection with a political object, I utterly deny." "These disturbances have been in every instance excited and inflamed by the agitation of the continued projects for the abolition of tithes and the destruction of the Union with Great Britain. I cannot employ words of sufficient strength to express my solicitude, that her Majesty's Government should fix the deepest attention on the intimate connection, marked by the strongest characters, its all these transactions between the system of agitation and its inevitable consequence, the system of combination, leading to violence and outrage. They are inseparably cause and effect. Nor can I, after the most attentive consideration of the dreadful scenes passing under my view, by any effort of my understanding, separate one from the other in that unbroken chain of indissoluble connection." "Hansard (Third Series), vol. xxxix. page 225. 301 J. Russell. 302 303 304 "The crime of wilful murder is capable of a yet further aggravation, both with respect to its inherent turpitude and its dreadful consequences—I mean, that of a previous conspiracy for its execution. Gentlemen, my imagination cannot conceive any thing more shocking and alarming to a community than the prevalence of this crime—the crime of premeditated and concerted assassination. If any addition to it can be supplied beyond the horror of its immediate enunciation, it seems to be that it can be only of a disposition existing among any considerable part or class in society to screen such criminals from detection and punishment—a disposition which, if existing, is in itself a mental, if not actual, participation of the crime." 305 "I am personally a stranger to your county; but the perusal of the calendar of prisoners, and of the informations on which they are committed, demonstrate to me, whatever may be the issue as to the guilt or innocence of the accused, that there can be no doubt of the lamentable fact, that in no place where the laws of England extend, is human life less regarded than in the county of Tipperary. We are compelled to say, that these crimes are, in too many instances, the result of deep-laid conspiracy, that calls for blood and assassination. The crimes that called for this commission seemed to have for their object to prevent the exercise of that dominion over property which is its most valuable attribute, and without which property cannot be said to exist at all." 306 307 "He still believed, that the resistance to the payment of the tithes in Ireland was not only to the mode in which that vexatious impost was collected, but from the natural hostility of the people to the purpose for which they were collected. He remembered he was told by Mr. Brownlow, then a Member of the House, that it would fail, for that it was the purpose for which tithes were collected, and not the mode of their collection, that constituted the evil. He believed, that in 1835, he saw the realization of that prophesy. He, therefore, voted most earnestly for the resolutions which were at that time adopted; and he afterwards concurred in the measures founded upon those resolutions. The hon. Member for Brid port had said, that that measure had only produced a sham and a delusion. Now he had never disguised from himself, that the principles upon which that measure was founded, would have led to measures larger and more extensive than those that were afterwards proposed to the House. He was perfectly sensible, that if the Irish people had insisted for that which, in his opinion, was their clear and indisputable rights, they might have demanded more than the Government or the Legislature intended to give them." * * 308 "noscitur a sociis," 309 "If that House was to enter into a contest with the Lords they should do it for something worth contesting. The present was but a shadow of a claim, to prosecute which would be risking the peace and tranquillity of the country for the sake of an abstract principle. * * "That it was impossible not to see what was the object of a certain party in Ireland, who did not desire to procure legislative measures by legislative means, but who sought, by force and violence, to compel the Legislature to follow in the wake of that force and violence." "That a seat in that House had hitherto been considered to be an honour to an individual; hut if ever the time arrived when its Members should be degraded to that point, that they should suffer an acquiescence in illegal demands to be extorted from them by intimidation, it would be far more honourable to till the ground in the humblest capacity, than to be a Member of that Assembly." 310 "Let the Roman Catholics," said the noble Marquess, "endeavour to mitigate their prejudices and jealousies against their Protestant brethren—let them cease to exasperate persons of their own persuasion—let them uniformly deserve to participate with their Protestant brethren in all reasonable privileges, by showing that they are attached to the constitution, and determined practically to secure its stability—by showing that they are obedient to the laws, and have every disposition to submit to them and reverence legal authority." 311 "Tu modo promissis manens, servataque serves
"Troia fidem."
 Viscount Morpeth : I feel it would be impossible for me, upon such a motion as that of my noble Friend, after such an amendment as that of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), in such a posture of affairs as the present, and still further after the many statements we have heard in the course of the present discussion—I feel, I say, that it would be impossible for me, in the situation I have the honour to fill, and after the part which I have had to bear in many of the transactions which have formed the main subject of debate, to remain upon the present occasion wholly silent; but I also feel, that after the considerable length to which upon a previous occasion in the course of this session I was permitted, by the indulgence of the House, to vindicate the measures and
 266 "Which, like a wounded snake, drags its slow length along." 267 268 animus 269 primeâ facie primâ facie bona fide * * 270 271 272 273 274 Hear. 275 Shaw 276 277 278 "Gahan, Wicklow County.
"Request Chief Justice Doherty to furnish me with a copy of his notes in this case of Gahan, as, in the former one of Connors, arising out of the same transaction (and where the trial was nearer the time when the events had happened). Mr. Justice Moore seems to have had so strong a doubt as to whether the police were in a state to identify Connors, that he recommended a free pardon. As this may not have come out on the second trial, I wish to see whether they were corroborated. "At the same time inform the Rev. Mr. Gahan that I cannot approve of the tone of his memorial. I never receive anything in reference to any trial which I should not think proper to forward to the judge, and therefore I can never tolerate any sneer, however slight, which would be offensive to him, and is therefore displeasing to me." 279 "London, May 24, 1836. "My Lord,—I have read Chief Justice Doherty's report of the case of Joseph Gahan, and the several documents sent with it. It appears that the crime of which Joseph Gahan and James Bayley have been convicted was committed in the month of October, 1834, and that at the Spring assizes in 1835, John Connors was tried before Mr. Justice Moore for this offence, convicted, and sentenced to transportation. The constables of police, Gorman, Abby, Willis, and Prout, appear to have been examined on that trial in support of the prosecution. In the month of January, 1836, the prisoner James Bayley, being then amenable, the informations were laid before me with the other informations in cases to be
 280 "But there are, in my judgment, other reasons for refusing to carry the sentence into execution. I have referred to the informations sworn by the constables recently after the transaction, and to their examination by the Crown solicitor previous to the first trial, and have compared the statements then made by
 281 "I have spoken to Mr. Kemmis upon the subject of the remission of the sentence passed on John Connors, and Mr. Kemmis assures
 282 283 284 "Caledon, Feb. 10, 1836. "Dear Sir,—I have just received your letter, and congratulate you on your promotion. "During your residence in the county of Tyrone, you have been frequently required to make unusual exertions, arid it is within my own observation, that on several occasions you conducted yourself with firmness, ability, and sound discretion. "It is to these and other good qualities you are no doubt indebted for your advancement, and I should much regret your removal from this county were it not for the benefit it is of to yourself. "Your faithful and obedient servant, "To Captain Duff. "CALEDON." 285 "From the returns made of the number of criminal offenders committed for trial, or bailed for appearance, at the assizes and sessions in each county, it appears, that during the year 1837 above 20,000 were tried for offences committed to obtain money, chiefly by larceny, or in modes which import habitual depredation. About 15,000 were convicted; the remainder escaped. The number of criminal commitments to our gaols may be stated, in round numbers, as 100,000 annually, and the number of prisoners varying from 12,000 to 20,000; but as there are no means of distinguishing the persons re-committed during the same year, we have no means of ascertaining the criminal population of the gaols with accuracy." 286 287 
 
 Assizes. Years. Number of Cases in which the Parties were found Guilty. Number of Cases in which the Parties were found Not Guilty. 
 Spring 1836 346 225 
 Summer 270 161 
 Spring 1837 518 323 
 Summer 291 188 
 Spring 1838 485 321 
 Summer 295 181 
 Spring 1839 539 286 288 "Galway, and Gloucester-street, Dublin, April 13, 1839. "We have been favoured with your note, and, in reply, beg to inform you, that fifteen years ago, and from thence until within the last five years, land in this county and neighbourhood has been invariably valued at twenty years' purchase. Since the latter period, and up to the present time, land has been progressively advancing in value; and on an average now rates as high as twenty-five years' purchase—in some instances twenty-seven years' purchase has been obtained.—We have the honour to be your most obedient servants, "J. and J. BLAKENEY." "Mr. Drew Atkin has been for the last fifteen years actively and professionally engaged in the purchase and sale of lands, within which period he has superintended sales of land in value about 20,000 l., l. "I have, however, no hesitation in stating that for the last fifteen years, the value of estates in Ireland has gradually and considerably risen, in some counties much more than others, but generally there has been a gradual increase in the value of landed estates all over Ireland. In the counties of Dublin, Armagh, Louth, Down, Antrim, Carlow, Wicklow, Wexford, Fermanagh, and some parts of Tyrone, Derry, Monaghan, Longford, and Cavan, the value of estates has increased from three to four years' purchase within the period of the last fifteen years. I think the chief increase has been within the last ten years,
 289 "Our experience would lead us to say that the value of land in Ireland is increasing; that is, lands to be let either in large or small divisions to occupying tenants, will bring higher rents now than they would have brought a few years ago, and this, perhaps, more from the increase of population, and from improvements in agriculture, than from the present high prices of agricultural produce. But we do not think that there is any material change in the rates of purchase at which landed property would sell within the several periods referred to. The rates of purchase of landed property in this country varies according to circumstances and to locality, from eighteen to twenty-eight years' purchase for fee-simple estates, the rates being much higher in the north than in any other part of Ireland, and we believe that persons making permanent investments of money in landed property are much less influenced by the temporary changes in the condition of particular districts of the country, or by the public measures of
 290 "STLWARTS and KINCAID, Leinster-street." "From these lists (for the accuracy of which I pledge myself) it will be found that the shares of the Mining Company of Ireland, which were selling at a discount of 63 l. l. l. s. d. l. s. l. s. "I have also to observe that the number of depositors and the amount of deposits in the savings' banks throughout the country, have greatly increased during the same period. In Meath-street Savings' Bank alone the depositors have very nearly increased fully one-third; while the deposits are in a still higher ratio, as will be seen by reference at the bottom of the abstract, taken from the published reports of that institution. "CHARLES DENNEUEY, Dublin." 291 Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike, Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike; 292
 Mr. Shed  said, that having been informed that the prayer of the petition was informal, he had withdrawn it.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary having attributed to him a statement that Lord Lorton had dispossessed some tenants on account of non-payment of rent, he wished to state what he did say. It was this: Lord Lorton, finding a portion of his estate crowded with pauper tenants, under a middleman, to such an extent that families could not subsist on the small holdings into which the land had been divided, had deemed it necessary to dispossess a certain portion of them, leaving the most respectable and industrious tenants, without reference to religion, in possession of holdings sufficient to sustain a family. To those who were removed, the noble Lord had, with his usual liberality, given from five to twenty-five guineas, and forgiven from one to three years' rent. The noble Lord had been compelled to make an example of the village of Ballinamuck, in consequence of a repetition of murders, disgraceful to the county and to the character of the people. Murders had been committed in broad daylight, and the widow of one of the victims who went to the village for assistance, was turned into ridicule, gibed, and hooted at. It was not one or two either, but a continuation of murders; and in four cases of outrage, the parties were worse than murdered, for they were so mutilated as to he left unable to support themselves. Therefore he thought that the document which the hon. and learned Gentleman had read with an emphasis calculated to turn it into ridicule, was such as to do equal credit to the head and heart of the excellent nobleman who wrote it.
 Mr. Hobhouse  thought, that the present debate must be extremely gratifying to Government and its supporters, as, during its course, Members usually opposed to them were found giving them cordial support. The hon. Member who had just sat down had come forward with manliness and independence that did him infinite honour. He could not say the same for the hon. Baronet who preceded him, for if ever there was a melancholy exhibition, if ever there was a spectacle calculated to throw discredit on that House, if ever there was a mixing up of buffoonery with one of the most important questions that could agitate a country, if ever there was shown a diseased imagination, combined with a deficient judgment, it was in the speech of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Caithness. The hon. Baronet complained of the protracted debate, but to his astonishment, the hon. Baronet himself occupied the House for a very long period of time with words not worth hearing, and arguments entirely destitute of foundation. The hon. Baronet called the hon. and learned Member for Dublin the Socrates of the Corn Exchange, and said that himself had been, and was still, according to the Whig writers, a renegade. The hon. Baronet would never be called the Socrates of renegades. Some parts of the hon. Baronet's speech had surprised him exceedingly; amongst the rest, that he could venture to speak of intimidation during the late elections. He wondered how the the hon. Baronet dared to charge Government with the exercise of undue influence, seeing that undue influence, bribery, and intimidation had been exercised to such an enormous extent by Gentlemen on the hon. Baronet's side of the House. He represented a town in which Government influence was supposed to exist to a great extent He begged to tell the hon. Baronet, that of all the voters in that town supposed to be under Government influence, only twenty-two had voted for him and his colleague, and thirty-six for the Conservative candidate. What a trumpery charge, then, was this! He should like to know what fact the hon. Baronet could bring forward in support of his allegation. He would not waste the time of the House any longer—he would not waste the time of the House by following the speech of the hon. Baronet, because, by doing so, he should be merely crushing a butterfly on the wheel.
 369 370 Cries of "Question." 371
 Mr. Shell : In one opinion expressed by the learned Member for Bandon I entirely concur. It would be difficult, indeed, to dissent from him; when he declared his speech to he "no joke." That speech way be distinguished by ability; but,
 382 "decies repetita placebunt." 383 384 385 Stanley: 386 387 388 389 390 391 Sligo Champion, Evening Mail. Evening Mail "When the new Administration conferred upon Lord Roden the high and distinguished office of Steward of his Majesty's Household, they offered a compliment to private worth, and paid a deference to a public integrity; and it was fitting that from such a Cabinet, and to such a man, the one should be tendered and the other yielded. But, independently of every thing due to the noble individual,—and no one is entitled to higher honour or greater consideration,— there was a party in this
 392 393 394 395 396 397 398 399 400
 Lord Stanley  hardly knew whether at that late hour of the night he might venture to presume upon the patient indulgence of the House. He certainly was anxious to have heard all that could be said upon the other side of the House, before he offered any observations upon the important question before them, leaving of course to his noble Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department the undoubted and unquestionable right to reply. They were now, it appeared, arrived, very nearly at a conclusion of what he supposed his noble Friend the Secretary for Ireland would call this Alexandrine discussion, and he feared, that when the public, who observed and criticised their proceedings, as they would do, should come to compare the course which had been taken by the House of Lords with that which was recommended by the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and which he concluded would be adopted upon that recommendation, they would not find, except in point of quantity, that any great advantage was to be obtained by the representatives of the people from the discussion on the point of comparison; he thought they would be of opinion, that the House of Lords had acted with moderation; he thought on the one band, they would be
 401 Oh! 402 403 Hon. Member 404 405 "Never at any period was the public mind so disturbed as it is now in Ireland. Doubt, alarm, suspicion, have poisoned and broken up society from one end of the kingdom to the other. Personal freedom of word or of action is nearly extinguished. The rights of property, the exercise of political privileges, are not protected and regulated by the law of the land, but are admitted, modified, or abrogated, by the arbitrary and irresponsible authorities of priests, of clubs, and of ignorant but formidably active ruffians, who in every district have constituted themselves ministers of public opinion. Disobedience to their decrees is punished by insult, by a very stringent species of outlawry, and not unfrequently by death, sudden and barbarous, and unpunished. An idea prevails among the lower orders, that Government secretly sympathizes with the objects of agitation, and that the constituted authorities reluctantly permit the severity of the laws to be enforced against a certain class of offenders." "The Government of Ireland is not impartial. The position of parties has indeed been reversed, but the country has gained nothing by the change. Revenge has been substituted for fair and equal rights; the worst passions of the worst portion of the population have been sedulously inflamed, and their imagination has been excited by wild visions of revolution under the specious, but significant phrase of justice to Ireland." "Then, to be sure, there is the talismanic cry, At all risks keep out the Tories; keep them out, as you would shun the renewal of Orange oppression.' As well might we dread for Ireland the return of Elizabeth's days, or of Cornwell's: Moreover, whatever legislation has taken place for Ireland under the present Administration, has been done by the express consent, and with the co-operation, of the Conservatives. If the latter were in office to-morrow, they never could have the means, thank God, even if they had the inclination, which I do not believe they have to revive the obsolete misgovernment of Ireland." 406 "If you should wish to make any use of this communication, I beg you will not mention my name, as you would thereby expose me to an almost inevitable death. As it is, I am barely suffered to exist under that roof which has sheltered my ancestors for centuries past." "The smaller resident landlord cannot attempt the smallest change, can make no new arrangement or improvement; he cannot square off a farm, remove a bad tenant, or promote an industrious one without interfering with the various and involved interests of the classes below him, and creating a feeling of suspicion and dread in the breast of each individual, that each in his turn, may become the victim of some unlooked for improvement or innovation. If he be desirous of bringing up a son or a brother to his own pursuits, though he may have twenty farms out of lease, he is precluded from availing himself of this circumstance, being well assured that any attempt on his part to do so, would most probably endanger his own life, and most certainly that of the party he would place on his land. This was the case with poor Wayland, who now suffers from his father's attempt to place him in his property, where his active and industrious habits, his fondness for farming, and taste for improvements would have rendered him infinitely more useful in promoting the civilization and advancing the best interests of
 407 "Great improvements have taken place; but the first step in the way of improvement is the consolidation of farms. At the very first step, therefore, the interests of the landlord and the occupier come into collision. I need not go through other points in which their interests conflict; it is sufficient to say, that in almost every ramification the two interests are conflicting. The landlord finds in the tenant an insurmountable barrier to every attempt at improvement, and therefore he looks upon him with jealousy and aversion." 408 409 410 411 412 "The committee cannot close this report without expressing the pleasure they have received from the concurrent testimony of so many witnesses, who, in speaking of the different measures which have been of late adopted for the improvement of the state of Ireland, have in a greater or less degree agreed in attributing to them a highly favourable effect. The establishment of the police and constabulary force; the revision of the magistracy, as far as it has gone; the meeting of the magistrates in petty sessions; the administration of justice by the assistant-barristers; the change which has taken place of late years in the mode of appointing sheriffs; the public works undertaken by the executive Government; the alteration in the system of the distillery laws, and in the general mode of collecting the revenue; the remission of all direct taxes; the repeal of the Union duties, and the increased facility of commercial intercourse, have all contributed not only to remove grievances, but to improve the situation of the country." 413 "Those offences which are more peculiarly directed against the state, and which mark an insurrectionary spirit, have also decreased in a most striking manner, as will be perceived from the following table." 414 415 416 "We have had the appointment of two sergeants-at-law; one of these two is well known to be a gentleman of liberal principles—I mean Mr. Perrin." "The other was a Roman Catholic, Mr O'Loghlen. We have promoted two King's Counsel, both of whom are Catholics. One of these is Mr. Woulfe; of the other I will say no more now than that we thought the distinction due to his legal and professional character." "We have made two assistant-barristers, one of whom is a Catholic. We have appointed eleven clerks of the Crown; of these four or five were Catholics. We have appointed one Master in Chancery, a very able and liberal
 417 418 "First," said they, "we demand a perfect equalization of the elective franchise in both countries, by extending the rights of voting of each country to the other; and we respectfully, also, submit that these rights ought to be enlarged in both. Secondly, we demand art immediate corporate reform, equal in every respect with that which England has obtained, Thirdly, we demand an adequate number of representatives for Ireland." "In the united Parliament, deeming the injustice of the inferiority of Ireland to the other parts of the United Kingdom, in respect of the quantity of its representatives, as one of the greatest grievances imposed by, and as the most unjust part of, the union statute. Fourthly, we demand an equalization of religious freedom with England and Scotland. The people of England are not burdened with the Church of the minority, the people of Scotland are not burdened with the Church of the minority. In order to place the people of Ireland upon a just equality with those of England and Scotland, they ought not to be burthened with the support of the Church of the minority; and our demand is, that they may be disembarrassed of that burden, by the application to public purposes, especially to purposes of education and of charity, of the temporalities of the Protestant Church in Ireland."
 Mr. O'Connell  solemnly assured the House, that he would with the greatest pleasure return to his seat again, without uttering a word, if he did not feel it an imperative duty to express his opinion as briefly as possible. Nothing but a sense of duty would make him obtrude himself on the House, feeling certain that the House had not yet grown cold from the glow which the ardent speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Tipperary had caused. The hon. Member for Lancashire had indeed, attempted to reply to him, and, no doubt, thought himself a worthy antagonist, but certainly not with great success. He had read somewhere, that there was nothing finer than a great man struggling with adversity; and if he had not to-night seen that, he had at least seen an able debater struggling with the worst cause that ever was advocated. There seemed to be a difference of opinion as to whether there had been good joking or bad joking in it; but he thought the noble Lord evinced much more thimble-riggery than either, in his sophistications, between principles of legislation, and principles of executive Government. The noble Lord had produced documents; but of what kind? Why, one from his own agent. The next step would be, to quote his butler or footman. He would not say that the letter had been sent over to Ireland, in order to be sent back again, but he protested against thus making quotations from private letters that might have been written to please the steward's master. And why was not the name of the other writer given Because, this Gentleman, who was a Catholic, and more liberal than the noble Lord, was afraid of being murdered. Very singular reasons, indeed, for fearing murder from the Roman Catholics; they would be hardly probable motives except with the Orange party. He was surprised that the noble Lord had not more good sense than to produce such a document. The noble Lord had arrived at his penitential days, and now belonged to that great party which surrounded him. That party must be very compact in its alliance, if any judgment
 427
 Mr. O'Connell : What the hon. Gentleman said, was, that the Catholic clergy of Ireland were an ignorant, benighted, and immoral people. That was the charge made; that was the charge which he said was made; and he now said it was unfounded. He bad a right to fling with contempt and scorn the atrocious calumny back upon the hon. Gentleman. There could be no excuse for it, except ignorance to the extent of brutality, such as was familiar in Kent.
 Mr. O'Connell— He said ignorance to the extent of brutality, such as had been exhibited in the county of the hon. Gentleman. He repeated that there was no excuse for it. They knew that the charge which had been made against the Catholic clergy admitted of no palliation, but proceeded from bigotry of the lowest and basest description, such also as had been exhibited in Kent, and was made against the laborious, the moral, and the devoted clergy of an affectionate laity. It was not surprising, however, to him, that such a charge should be made, for it was but reasonable that he should expect such an allegation from the genial atmosphere of Exeter Hall. It might be called virtue, but
 From virtue's self might too much zeal be had,
The worst of madmen was a saint run mad. 428 429 430 l. l. 431 l., l. l., l. No. 432 433 "Ye gentlemen of England, who live at home at ease, Ah! little do you think on the dangers of the seas." 434 Dublin Evening Post, 435 436 437 peau de velours 438 l.; l. "I claim a little of your attention to the doings of the Earl of Glengall. Ever since we announced our adhesion to the Precursor Society, he has vowed vengeance against any of the tenantry who should become a member. But the election of guardians has at last afforded the opportunity of executing his threats. He made out a list of guardians for the Fide union—of persons who were either noted partisans, tories of the right sort, or nominal Catholics who are tenants, and of course dependents, and might be managed. In the divisional district of Cahir he placed on his list three rank Tories, to the exclusion of 8,000 Catholics, and he has been signally defeated. His nominees were refused, and three honest, patriotic Catholics returned. He asserted it was a matter of indifference who should be returned, but as soon as Lady-day came on, the mask was removed. It was not usual
 439 s. d. "Amidst all the exertions that are making to protect Protestantism in Ireland from the mine and assault of the popish priesthood, and their bigotted flocks, as well as from the artful attacks of the Tyrconnells and Phippses of the day, it appears never to have occurred to the leaders of the Conservative party, that all the while, the only lasting bond of success and security, a Protestant tenantry in Ireland, which forms the connecting link between the two countries, has been, and is, daily disappearing. Large districts of Ireland, which not very long since were peopled with those gallant and faithful men, who form the vanguard of Protestantism and the British monarchy, have been weeded of them to such an extent, that not a single Protestant is now to be found in them. Where the Established Church once stood, and the pure religion of Christ was once disseminated, now stands the popish mass-house, pouring forth the soul-destroying doctrines and immorality of Maynooth. From these districts all rational hope of the revival either of true religion or civilization, through any other means than the replacing a Protestant tenantry, is utterly banished. What more immediately presents itself as a simple and
 440 441 Stanley: Morning Post. "He (Mr. O'Connell) had asked him whether he had not attended a meeting held in the city of Cork, in the year 1828, and there made a speech against Catholic Emancipation? And he would answer him, that never in the county of Cork or elsewhere—at a Brunswick or any other meeting—had he made a speech against emancipation. Had the hon. Gentleman known him, he would have known, as his (Sergeant Jackson's) friends well knew, that his opinions were favourable to Emancipation in 1828; but, with the experience he had of late years and a knowledge of the lamentable events which had occurred in certain quarters, were the question now before the legislature, he should ponder well before he gave his vote for the measure." 442 "Counsellor Jackson said, it never before had fallen to his lot, to have to return thanks for an honour of the kind after dinner. He assured them he was deeply sensible of the compliment conferred upon him. He should always feel interested for the success of the Brunswick Club." 443
 Lord J. Russell  then rose to reply amidst continued cries for a division. He said—Sir, had I been able to rise at an earlier period of the evening, I should certainly have made some observations on the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Lancashire; but at this late hour, and after the many able speeches which have been made in support of the motion which I have ventured to lay before the House, I shall certainly not feel justified in occupying your time for many minutes. Sir, it appears to me, that this motion has chiefly been opposed on two grounds, each very different from the other, if not quite contrary. The one is, that the vote to which the House of Lords came is not a censure, that it imputes no blame to the Government, and that it is therefore quite unnecessary to interfere with a proceeding which merely amounts to one of those ordinary cases of inquiry on which either House, at its discretion, is accustomed to enter. The other line which has been pursued by some of those who have resisted my motion is, that there is so much to blame in the Government of Lord Normanby that the House of Lords thought it necessary to institute an inquiry—that this inquiry is in the nature of a trial, and that at present the House ought not to offer any opinion, inasmuch as the trial has not come to a conclusion. Now, Sir, if the first of these grounds is to be relied upon, viz., that this is a mere ordinary case of inquiry and not a censure, then I say
 444 445 446 447
 Lord John Russell  put it to the House whether it would not be convenient to let the original motion pass without a division, as the hon. Member for Finsbury had expressed his determination to divide the
 452
 Sir George Sinclair  spoke to the following effect:* If the Members here assembled from the various districts of Great Britain and Ireland were to compare notes, it would be found, that the character of this House, which has long been greatly at a discount, has, even since the commencement of this Session, fallen at least twenty per cent. It is alleged that we display no energy, and despatch no business; that we say little that is worth the saying, and do little that is worth the doing; that country gentlemen were never summoned to so little purpose in the month of February from their families and their firesides; that we are chiefly notorious for the intolerable length of our speeches, and the interminable adjournment of our debates; that, whilst the Ministers have kept back everything important, the Conservatives have brought forward nothing aggressive: in short, the relative position of the two great parties has been compared to that of the French and English guards at one of the battles in the seven years' war, who, on that occasion, treated each other with a somewhat unseasonable ceremoniousness, and began by interchanging bows instead of bullets, until the French exclaimed, in the exuberance of their national politeness, "Gentlemen of the English guards, pray be pleased to take the first fire." There appears to have been, during the early part of this Session, a similar unwillingness to strike the first blow; but this  "tirez les premiers" * 333 lex talionis; "Friends, Romans, countrymen, and lovers." 334 Doctrines fashion'd to the varying hour," 335 "Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike." 336 337 "Obsecro et obtestor, vitæ me redde prior." carte du pays cœteris paribus 338 "It is twice blest;
It blesseth him that gives and him that takes." 339 maître d'hôtel, entrée Courier, Chronicle, Times True Sun, Standard Spectator, 340 —"bonus est odor ex re
Quâlibet." ad libitum ad nauseam frondeur, tête-à-tête, "I wonder, Sir, exclaimed he, in a half angry, half pathetic tone, what all the Conservatives in the House of Commons are about; they seem to me to be sleeping at their posts. The only symptom of vitality they have shewn, was to get up an adjourned debate as to the production of documents, which the Government shewed no disposition to refuse—a sort of abortive attempt to batter down the walls of the Treasury with paper-pellets. There was no use in discussing such a point at all; they should have 'kept their powder dry' until some actual conflict took place, and not have wasted the Congreve-rockets of their eloquence, by firing them into empty space. I begin to think, Sir, that the energy of an opposition is inversely proportioned to its numbers. If I were in the House of Commons, I would never mind being in a minority. I should, of course, always like it to be as large as possible; but, were it ever so small, I should console myself by exclaiming, if the cause were good, The fewer men, the greater share of honour.' It is far more glorious for a powerful and gallant army to suffer a defeat, than seem afraid to hazard an engagement. I day say, Sir, you remember as well as I do, the exploits and the prowess of my eloquent and accomplished friend Croker during the two Reform Bill campaigns. His premature re-
 341 'Armis Herculis ad postem fixis, latet abditus agro.' 'A thunderbolt of war;' 'Lieutenant-general to the Earl of Mar.'
I used to think, Sir, that he would never let the Whigs get through letter A of schedule A. The rottenest borough had its Thermopylæ. The ground was disputed street by street, where there were any streets, and inch by inch, where there were none. I believe even Peters-field had its barricades and its glorious days. Methinks I see Croker now defending the bridge of Appleby with all the ardour of Horatius Codes, against a whole battalion of Reformers, and now leading on the  forlorn 342 chefs-d'œuvre 343 virtuosos, studio felo de se, "With respect," said he, "to the Whigs, there were, he admitted, some men among them who had discharged their duty faithfully, and the Radicals were very glad to avail themselves of their assistance on the road towards thorough reform. The moment the Whigs stopped, the Radicals would bid them good by, and proceed on their own account; and he was satisfied they never would stop until they had obtained full justice to the whole empire. The Whigs could not proceed without them; they were bound hand and foot to the Radicals, for they had the huge body of the Conservatives opposed to them, and staring them in the face, ready to demolish them, should such a crisis occur as the defection of the Radical party. But there were also among the Whigs many whom they could not possibly trust—men who were ready at any moment to shrink away into the ranks of the tyrannical, boroughmongering, and bloodthirsty Tories. Ministers undoubtedly had laid some good measures on the table of the House of Commons; but he feared, when these were carried, the Whig stock in trade would be out. In such a case they must expect the Radicals to cut the concern; for the Radicals would never consent to be mere dummies." 344 tot et tanta negotia "Populus me sibilat; at mihi plaudo Ipso domi." "Once Thane of Glammis,
But now of Cawdor," 345 crescendo "That, had not Heaven, for some strong purpose, steeled The hearts of men, they must perforce have melted, And  Toryism "Every thing by turns, and nothing long," pis-aller, 346 347 348 Le Roi le veut; Soit fait comme il est désiré; Le Roi remercis ses bons sujets de leur bénévolence, et ainsi le veut. carte blanche 349 "Give his noisy senate laws,
And sit attentive to his own applause." 350 "Assumes the god, Affects to nod, And seems to shake the spheres." fiat omnium gatherum bonâ fide 351 janitor l. pro tanto "Gentlemen,—I have thought it right to assemble you on this eventful emergency, in order to enforce the necessity of perseverance and co-operation in our unanimous and disinterested exertions for keeping the selfish and
 352 Hear Hear, hear. hear, hear hear, hear hear, hear hear, hear hear, hear Hear, hear. "I have listened, as I always do, with profound attention to your Lordship's most impressive and important admonitions. You have certainly adduced very cogent grounds why we Radicals should strain every nerve to keep the Tories out of office—[ hear, hear Oh! oh! 353 oh! oh! oh! oh! hear, hear hear, hear hear, hear hear, hear Hear. oh! oh! oh! oh! Oh! oh! Order, order; hear, hear. 354 "In answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, I must confess, that I have not yet seen any cause to recede from my declaration, that as far as the principles of the Reform Bill are concerned, I, as its author, am bound to regard it as a final measure." "My Lord, I have heard with unaffected sorrow your very ill-starred, but most candid avowal—a sorrow, which will doubtless find an echo in the breast of every sincere Reformer throughout the empire. The noble Lord has, as usual, stolen a leaf out of Sir R. Peel's book, and is trying to force down the throats of the Liberals a bolus, which would be swallowed by a gathering of the Tory clans with simultaneous avidity. I own, that I am quite in the dark as to the precise grounds, on which this most impolitic determination can rest. Your Lordship reminds me of my friend Snip, the tailor, who promised, when my old coat was worn out, that the new one, with which he undertook to supply me, should fit exactly; but when he brought it home, after getting it up in a great hurry, it proved to be too wide at the waist and too narrow at the sleeves. When I pointed out these palpable defects, instead of consenting to make the necessary alterations, he flew into a passion, and exclaimed, 'Sir, when I engaged in this job, I fairly told you, that mine was 'a final measure.' You must make shift as best you can: if your coat is too wide here, remember, that it is too narrow there; and the one must compensate for the other' But, my Lord, I hope I shall be favoured with a more satisfactory reply to my second interrogatory. I can assure your Lordship, that we Radicals should be but too happy to lay hold of any plank, however rotten, or to find out any plea, however flimsy, for continuing to adhere to the Government, which we have not the slightest wish either to abandon or to embarrass. We shall, therefore, be glad to be informed, what are the measures of a decidedly popular character by the introduction and carrying through of which her Majesty's Ministers may insure our support, and retrieve the confidence of the people?" [ "Order, order; hear, hear." 355 Globe Courier "Priscus amor redit, Diductosque jugo cogit aheneo." semi quasi 356 Vade Mecum, 357 "We cannot, and we will not, submit to the execrable tyranny and insulting injustice of the Lords, without using every effort to obtain the complete reform of that Assembly. This reform of the Lords is the only one political necessity. That House, in its present state, is the great obstacle to the good Government of Ireland; in fact, it is, in its present state, an invincible obstacle to good Government. To this, then, should every well-wisher to Ireland tend. To this reform of the House of Lords the attention of every real and sincere Reformer should now be turned. There may be some calling themselves Reformers, but who are Tories in their hearts; and there may be others who designedly play the part of Tories; and both these classes may seek, therefore, to turn the attention of the friends of freedom to other topics from the one thing necessary— i. e., 358 argumentum ad metum argumentum ad misericordiam. "'Most potent, grave, right rev. seniors, My very worthy and approved good masters,' I am afraid, that we can do little with you, and I admit, that we can do nothing without you— 'Nec possum tecum vivere, nee sine to:' bat oh! be generous as you are great—be considerate, as you are invincible. Pray don't be too hard upon us—don't push us into a corner—don't pin us against the wall. Although appearances are sometimes rather against us, we entertain the highest respect for your Lordships, both collectively and individually; we are intent upon requiting good for evil; and in return for the provoking pertinacity, with which you reject or mutilate all our measures, we intend to maintain all your privileges inviolate, and allow the amplest limits to your discretion. Pray don't confound us with the Radicals,—though I may observe,  en passant, 359 uná voce, x y quantum 'Help me, Titinius, or I sink!' O send a Conservative life-boat to our aid! Well may we term Sir R. Peel our right hon. 'Friend:'—he is often so indeed, for he is always so in need; and, without his most seasonable succour, the Radicals, if we had fought them single-handed, must long ago have driven us out of the field. What a mercy it would be, if, through your Lordships' kind mediation, we could shake off the yoke of our much more dreaded than desired confederates, and amalgamate our troops in the Conservatives ranks! Only insure to us nine-tenths of the places, and a similar proportion of the patronage, and we are quite prepared to strike the bargain. How gladly should we all take our names out of the Reform Club, and be put up as candidates at the Carlton, proposed by Sir C. Wetherell, and seconded by Mr. Bonham! Why cannot your Lordships meet us one-tenth part of the way? We don't even ask you to sanction any enactment which, by possibility, can save our credit by bearing the name of an appropriation-clause; and as to the Municipal Reform Bill, if you will be pleased to pass it in any shape, 'We're all submission; what you'd have it, make it.'
The only  sine quâ non, 360 361 pro tanto ne plus ultra 362 "Condemned to hope's delusive mine;" "Warm precincts of the  quarter posse comitatus 363 Gazette, 364 mutatis mutandis, 365 366
 The Speaker  said, that the observation of the hon. and learned Member was certainly disorderly, if he meant to impute that the calumny proceeded from the right hon. Gentleman himself.
 The Speaker  said, there was no question before the Chair.
 The Speaker  thought, that as the petition involved an application for pecuniary relief, it could not be received.
 The Speaker  said, that it was extremely difficult to draw an exact line in such eases as this; but he thought that it must be obvious that it was improper to use such expressions as these. The last word used by the hon. and learned Gentleman was ignorance. Would the hon. and learned Member repeat what he had said?
 Mr. Leader : Before offering to the House the observations with which I mean to trouble them, I must make one remark on the commencement of the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. I think the only excuse for the ill-judged attack which he has made on the very clever speech of the hon. Baronet is the excess of fraternal affection which leads him to resent almost as a personal insult the expression of charges against a Cabinet in which his brother holds a place. Though the debate has hitherto turned on the narrow ground of the Irish policy of Ministers, and on the still narrower question of the Administration of Lord Normanby, I am quite certain, that when the Government gets the small majority which they will be sure to have when we come to a vote, they will take credit for having obtained a general vote of confidence. However they may disclaim the intention, I am sure, that this impression will be circulated by them. Now, I am anxious, that that impression should be confined to the Ministers and their organs, and that it should not be sanctioned in this House by the tacit votes on this occasion of those who disagree with them in their general conduct. If they fancy that the majority which they will have in their favour on this vote proves a confidence in their Administration, let me ask, from what party that confidence proceeds? Can they pretend to the confidence of the great party opposite? I know, that on many occasions they have the support of that party; but scarcely a debate takes place in which the right hon. Baronet who leads that powerful party, or some one of those who belong to it, does not express, in very intelligible terms, the dissatisfaction which he feels with the Government, and the contempt in which he holds them. Yes,
 372 373 No! no! 374 375
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, the hon. Member for South Shields was greatly mistaken in supposing, that in the exercise of the prerogative of mercy by Lord Normanby, only persons convicted of minor crimes had been discharged. Such was by no means the case, and before he sat down he should have occasion to show that the
 376 377 378 "Waterford, August 9, 1836. "The list appears larger than I had expected, from the recommendations to which I repeatedly attended during my visit to Clonmel gaol; but of course (with the exception of four) all the other cases were brought before me by the local authorities, and if it can be accurately ascertained whether all the names were taken down at the time by my desire they shall all be included. If so, they must all, in pursuance of my instructions, be discharged; but it might be inconvenient that so large a number should leave the gaol together, and on the same day, therefore I should wish Mr. Bell to call them before him each day by ten or fifteen, either in the order of the expiration of their sentences, or from some other reason, rendering their discharge first expedient, and then repeat to them carefully the special grounds of my clemency, which I myself stated their exemplary conduct, as reported, in confinement, the improved state of the neighbourhood, and the strong promises that they would lead new lives in future—for the gradual discharge of all those addressed thus by me this shall be sufficient authority; and when the revised list of names is sent to the Castle, I have desired that the order in regular form shall be sent down." (Signed) MULGRAVE. "To the Governor of the Gaol of Clonmel." 379 "Sir, In reference to the cases of the several prisoners submitted to the Lord-lieutenant, upon his late inspection of the gaol of Clonmel, and recommended by you as subjects of his Excellency's clemency, I am instructed to request you will, upon consultation with the governor of the gaol, recal to his Excellency's recollection such particulars respecting the prisoners discharge, either of good character previous to, or good conduct during the confinement, or of the state of their health, as induced you to distinguish them as peculiarly deserving the favourable consideration of his Excellency. You will be so good as to afford the fullest information, and make such observations as you consider necessary, specifying whether any and what representations had been made in their favour by the local magistrates or gentlemen of the county, or any other mitigating circumstances in behalf of the prisoners who were discharged by his Excellency. "As this information is required to complete an order to Parliament, I am to request you will lose no time in furnishing it. "I am, Sir, yours, T. DRUMMOND. "To the local inspector or governor of the gaol of Clonmel." 380 "Clonmel, March 11, 1837. "Sir, In reply to your letter received this morning, I have to inform you that Mr. Bell, the chaplain of the county gaol, who acted for me during my absence, recommended one female for discharge, she having undergone her sentence, but could not obtain the bail required of her; fifty-five were recommended as being well conducted while in gaol by the governor, master of the works, and first turn-key, to the houses of correction, and one female by his Excellency, the Lord-lieutenant himself, which makes the whole number discharged from this gaol on his Excellency's visit to it last summer. There was no recommendation of any magistrate. "I remain, Sir, yours very obediently, "WALTER GILES, Local Inspector." "To T. Drummond, Esq, Castle." 381
 Mr. Sheil  said, that when he bad understood there was an objection in point of form to the petition, he had withdrawn it. He did not think it could be said, that there was anything unfair on his part. He felt, that where charges were made against an individual with whom he knew the right hon. and learned Gentleman had communication, it was only right to apprise him of the fact. Notwithstanding the statements of the right hon. Gentleman, he was rather apprehensive that it would be found, on investigation, that the principal facts in the petition were correctly stated. He wished to be allowed to read for the right hon. Gentleman and for the House, who might not be aware of the system adopted by Lord Lorton in the county of Roscommon, a document—a proclamation coming from that noble Lord, dated the 5th of the present month, which had been published from Rockingham, his residence. There might be controversy as to matter of fact, of which there was no evidence before the House; but there was an easier way of arriving at a conclusion as to the nature of the system adopted by Lord Lorton. In this document Lord Lorton said, that, in consequence of the persevering, barbarous, and savage murders of Protestant tenants, Lord Lorton had taken possession of Ballinamuck. [Mr. Sheil here remarked, that the hon. and gallant Colonel, the Member for Sligo, had said, that Lord Lorton's tenants were turned out for non-payment of rent. Colonel Perceval denied the statement, and Mr. Shell having begged pardon for the mistake, proceeded with the reading of the document.] Lord Lorton said, that in order to put an end to those atrocities, and the machinations of vile incendiaries, he gave notice, whenever an outrage should occur, to which the law affixed the penalty of death, and the offenders were not discovered, the same system should be adopted. Lord Lorton trusted, however, that after these examples and warnings, it might never be necessary for him to repeat the performance of the same painful duty. He hoped that his Catholic tenants would
 321
 Mr. Sheil  said, he had a petition to present from several tenants of Lord Lorton, which, as it was short, he would beg to read. The hon. and learned Gentleman then read the petition, which stated, that on Thursday the 4th of the present month, Mr. Courtenay, the agent to Lord Lorton, accompanied by the sheriff of Longford, and a large force of military and police, had turned them out of their houses, which were afterwards levelled to the ground. That the petitioners were not conscious of any crime they had committed, or of having given any reason for such a calamity being inflicted upon them, but that they had reason to believe, that they were ejected on account of their religion, they being Roman Catholics; and they believed this, from the circumstances that no Protestants had been ejected, and that Protestants had been placed in the holdings from which the petitioners had been ejected. The petitioners stated, that they were in number 250 persons; that having been thus ejected, they had no prospect before them but beggary in their own country. That they were desirous of emigrating, but had not the necessary means of doing so, and they prayed the House to afford them those means.
 Mr. Ingham  wished to lead back the attention of the House from the entertaining speech of the hon. Baronet who had just sat down to the question which they had been discussing for so many days. Many Members on both sides of the House had, during that discussion, given reasons for their different votes, and he begged to say, that with very many of those arguments, on both sides, he found it impossible to concur. He did not think himself of sufficient importance in that House to enter deeply into its deliberations, and should, therefore, confine himself to the consideration of the resolution of the noble Lord in its literal and express terms. In that resolution he did not read any thing like censure of the House of Lords; he could not see in it any thing like a general support of the Government or approbation of its measures. He thought it necessary to say this, because there had been some measures of the Government now, happily, abandoned which he could not possibly have supported. He alluded particularly to their measure for the appropriation of the revenues of the Irish Church, a measure he could never agree to. But the present resolution of Ministers demanded no approval of the legislative acts of Ministers; it merely asked an expression of the opinion of that House as to the way in which the existing laws had been of late years administered in Ireland. It was his firm belief, that those laws had been administered in a way calculated to benefit the great proportion of the population of that country—and, approving as he did of that policy, he considered he should be promoting its continuance by future statesmen by supporting the resolution now before the House. The principal part of Lord Normanby's Irish Government which had been objected to was his practice of extending patronage, and bestowing high judicial and other offices on gentlemen of the Roman Catholic per-
 367
 Sir S. Lushington  trusted, the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) would not press the House to a division, under existing circumstances. There were many hon. Members, among whom were some of the warmest friends to further reform, who, if the question were put without discussion, could not conscientiously vote for it. The terms of the question were too vague without elucidation by the hon. Member and an understanding of what points of reform were involved. It was very unfair, therefore, that the House should be forced to a division without discussion. He hoped the hon. Member would pause in the course he had expressed it his determination to pursue. If not, the motion would be negatived by many who had not the slightest intention to injure the cause of reform by their votes, and he, for one, should be compelled to vote against it and abide by the consequences.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that he had at the commencement of the debate that evening declared his determination to move the rider on the original motion, if the amendment of the right hon. Baronet were not carried. He wished, therefore, to have his motion put.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, he was well aware that, according to the strict rules of the House, he could not now move the amendment of which he had given notice; yet, perhaps, it would be for the convenience of the House, that one debate should close the discussion on the different questions on which they must ultimately divide. If
 322 323 324 "And that it is also expedient to effect such further reforms in the representation of the people in Parliament as shall conduce to their contentment, and the security and welfare of the kingdom at large." "Now it seems the Constitution is complete —now we are to stand still. We are to elevate ourselves with the constitution in our hands, and to held it forth to a wondering
 325 326 "Mr. A. Sanford said, much observation had been made on both sides as to the declaration of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and when the noble Lord talked of a fixed duty, he wished to ask him what that duty was intended to be; not that the noble Lord's answer would have any effect upon his (Mr. Sanford's) vote, as he had fully made up his mind to give a decided negative to the motion; but he was induced to ask the question because be had given a firm and, he trusted, independent support to her Majesty's Government, and in consequence of the opinion expressed in another place by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. If the thought that the opinion of the noble Lord entirely coincided with the opinion of the majority of the
 327 328
 Dr. Lefroy  felt it necessary to take the opportunity of observing upon what he must call the unfair course that had been taken in this matter. A petition containing most unfair and uncandid reflections upon a noble Friend of his had been read nearly  verbatim. 320
 Dr. Lefroy  said, that upon the question
 319
 Dr. Lefroy  rose, but was met with repeated cries of "Chair!"
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, with respect to the petition presented by the hon. Member for Tipperary, the strict rules of the House had been adhered to; but the hon. and learned Gentleman had made statements of a very harsh description affecting the character of a noble Lord, and it was most important that they should not go forth without explanation. There was now, he apprehended, an opportunity for his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the University of Dublin, for giving that explanation, upon the motion that the Order of the Day be read.
 Sir Francis Burdett  rose to address the House, and continued to speak for upwards of a quarter of an hour; but the loud and general cries of "Question" and "Divide!" which prevailed in every quarter of the House, prevented him from being heard. He was understood to state that he considered the course pursued by the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) as most unjustifiable—as being calculated to place the country in a position of great difficulty and danger, and as being in accordance with the views and feelings of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, by whom, he had no doubt, it had been dictated.
 Sir Robert Bateson  rose to order, and appealed to the House whether such language as they had now heard, was either usual or parliamentary.
 Sir Robert Peel  would be satisfied to have the original motion put and determined Without a division, it being understood, that those who had voted with him in favour of the amendment should be considered to negative the resolution.
 Sir C. Style  said, that if any vote were to pass the House in the slightest degree conveying censure on the measures of the Executive in Ireland, it would at once destroy every prospect of the Irish being able to obtain prosperity for their country. Ireland was now in a far more satisfactory condition than it had ever been at any former period of its history, and the contrast was most striking between the present state of things, and that of a period not very far distant; What was it that created there a degree of destitution dissimilar to any thing that was to be found in any other part of the empire. He did not deny that enormity and crime existed in Ireland to a frightful and lamentable extent, but he at the same time believed, that it was not in a worse state now than at any former period. He thought that the state of crime in Ireland was not imputable to any Government, but rather to the peculiar condition of society in that country, and therefore he was unwilling to vilify either Lord Normanby, Lord Anglesey, Lord Wellesley, or any other Lord-lieutenant. The Lords-lieutenant of Ireland had each in their turn been vilified, but for his own part, he neither attributed the unfortunate state of that country to misgovernment, nor to the conduct of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. The hon. Baronet read an extract from the second report of the railway commissioners, to show that potatoes which had originally been considered "unfit for swine," constituted the food of the peasantry, and said that, if the poor
 329 330 * 331 332
 Mr. Hawes  wished to know from the right hon. the Under-secretary for the Colonies, whether he had any objection to lay before the House the third report of the commissioners at Malta; and also a copy of the law lately promulgated in that island relating to the liberty of the press, together with any comments attached to it? He likewise wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would state whether the Government had agreed to the recommendation of the commissioners, to abolish the Vice-Admiralty Court at Malta.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that it was his intention to lay the papers alluded to on the Table of the House, which would give the
 459
 Mr. Labouchere,  in moving the Order of the Day for the second reading of this Bill, said he would briefly state the course which he intended to pursue. He would propose, that the second reading should take place without discussion; and then that counsel should be called in and heard. This was the course adopted in the case of the bill of last year respecting the Canadas. He would propose that the discussion should take place on the next stage of the bill, with, of course, this understanding, that no Member would he pledged by assenting to the second reading to any support of it at a future stage, if he should see cause to oppose it.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he could not take upon himself the responsibility of delaying the measure. He could assure the right hon. Baronet, that it had not been introduced without the most mature consideration and the strongest conviction of its necessity. It was therefore of importance that it should not be delayed. Some hon. Members might not wish to proceed with the discussion immediately after the hearing of counsel; but he would put it to the House, whether it might not be inconvenient that the arguments of counsel should go without the opportunity of having them answered. If, however, the right hon. Baronet did not wish that they should go on immediately after hearing counsel, he would not object; but he hoped, that as little delay as possible would be interposed, before the House should pronounce an opinion upon the question. It was also of the utmost importance, that the House of Assembly of Jamaica should not be left in ignorance of that decision, but should be made acquainted with it as soon as possible.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had altogether misunderstood him. He had no wish or intention to offer any opposition to the progress of the bill. He had no wish to postpone it unnecessarily. He would only say, that as the evening was now much advanced, and as it seemed to be the rule, that they were to be called upon to adjourn at twelve, they might not have more than an hour or two for discussion after counsel should have concluded. He spoke of this as a matter of convenience to the House, but without a wish to offer any impediment to the discussion of the question.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he would take that opportunity of stating the course which he intended to pursue. In the first place, he should offer no objection to the course suggested by the right hon. Gentleman; lie would now consent, therefore, to the second reading of the bill, before the hear-in of counsel, with, of course, the distinct understanding, that he was not pledged thereby to an acquiescence in it at any future stage. Supposing then, that other Members 'were of the same opinion, the bill would be read a second time  pro formâ, Member 460
 Mr. Aglionby  would not oppose the resolution, but he thought it would be much more safe if they were to say at once, that they thought it most important for the public at large, and for the interests of the poor in particular, that there should be grounds for their recreation and exercise, and that the expenses of establishing such should be paid out of the public purse, or by the parishes which were to receive the benefit of them.
 Viscount Ingestrie  seconded the motion. He fully agreed with those who held, that the House of Commons was not a fit body, in ordinary circumstances, to conduct the affairs of the Board of Admiralty; but when he found that the Board of Admiralty treated all applications and overtures for amendment of the present system, or any part of it, with contempt and derision, he confessed he saw no course open, but to bring questions of this kind before the House and the public. On the present occasion, therefore, he was delighted to concur with the hon. and gallant Officer opposite, from whom he differed so much on politics in general; and he would say, that as he had had the honour of sailing into action under the command of the gallant Admiral, the gallant Admiral had then led him to victory, and he hoped he would again on the present occasion. The subject had been very much discussed in former debates some time ago; since then there had been what sailors called a lull; but he hoped the hon. and gallant Admiral would blow up the breeze again. In his opinion, the statement of the hon. and gallant Admiral was highly satisfactory. He thought the gallant Admiral's positions were very strong; and he must say he had never heard a word from hon. Gentlemen or from the hon. and gallant Officers of the Admiralty to show why ships of war should not go out to active service with their full complement of men. Every one knew, be was very sorry to say, that the political affairs of the country were not in that state of harmony which one could wish, We were actually at war in Canada. A war with America seemed not so far distant us he could wish. We were at war also in the East Indies; and, therefore, he must say he thought that the Government, in refusing to put the navy on a war complement, threw out of view wholly what was the actual state of our foreign relations. But this was not all. On former occasions he had felt it his duty to allude to the difference in the rates of wages, pay, and allowances in the British and in foreign navies, and the discontent which arose among our seamen in consequence, The discrepancy was most remarkable between the situation
 484 485 486
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped the hon. and gallant Member would withdraw his motion, until the experiments about to be tried were proved to be satisfactory or unsatisfactory; and he thought the House of Commons might be better occupied than in wasting their time with discussions of this sort, which could only make them look ridiculous in the eyes of the public
 Lord Eliot  rose to move the appointment of a committee to examine into the merits of the petition of Mr. S. Harris, F.R.S., relating to his invention for the protection of ships from lightning. The noble Lord said, he did not consider nautical knowledge necessary to understand this subject, or he would not have undertaken to bring it forward. He should attempt to establish three propositions: that ships unprovided with electrical conductors, or provided only with such as were now in use, were in great danger of injury from lightning: that the invention of Mr. Harris was effective to guard against it; and that having been tried, and found so effective, it had nevertheless been discarded. There were 170
 475 476 l. l.
 Lord Eliot  said, his only reason for bringing this subject forward was, that he might have a scientific and satisfactory investigation, and he would willingly agree to the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. With reference to a remark that had been made by the Secretary for the Admiralty, he would observe, that experiments ought to be made under the eye of the inventor.
 Lord G. Somerset  fully concurred in the purport of the hon. Gentleman's resolution, but begged to call his attention and that of the House to what seemed to him something more than a formal objection to its passing without further consideration. In that part of the resolution which went to afford additional exercise and recreation to the people, he wholly concurred, but when the hon. Gentleman went to ask the House to lay down as a standing order the necessity of paying out of the poor-rates in the case of every enclosure bill the expense of fencing the portion of ground allotted for such purposes, he could not help thinking that in point of form there was very considerable objection to the hon. Gentleman's resolution. A regulation imposing the necessity of taking money out of the public
 473
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that after the strong opinion that was expressed on the last occasion when this matter was discussed, against the practice which had grown up of late of introducing into the House of
 487 488 489 490 "In the latter years of the war (when the ships had full war complements), all zeal and energy were extinct in the breasts of the greatest part of the officers and men. The emulation that formerly existed was at an end, and the pride that officers felt in seeing their ships excel others in evolutions, had entirely disappeared. The Mediterranean fleet, commanded by a highly distinguished officer, was to look at, the finest, but in evolutions the most lubberly I ever beheld. I served in it for three years, and it was accounted almost tyranny by the old officers to keep a ship in anything like order."
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he should not oppose the motion. He must, however, say, that the order for discontinuing Mr. Harris's invention, had been given, not by the present Board of Admiralty, but by a former Navy Board, not less then eight years ago. He had seen the experiments of Mr. Harris, and was bound to admit, that they were very satisfactory in appearance. And if it should turn out from the evidence before the Committee, that the invention was efficient—for that was in fact the only question to be investigated, there being no doubt about the two other points—he was sure, that no consideration of expense
 477
 Mr. C. Wood  said, the course proposed by the right hon. Baronet was that adopted in the case of Kyan's patent.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that he was so well pleased to hear the observations which had fallen from the noble Lord, and entered so much into their spirit, that he would readily concur in any suggestion likely to give unanimity to that or some such resolution; and after what had been said by the Speaker, respecting the mode of defraying the expenses of fencing in, and keeping so, the different portions of ground allotted for the benefit of the people, he would, with the permission of the House, withdraw the words, "To be paid out of the poor-rate thereof."
 Mr. Harvey  rose to call the attention of the House to the notice he had given last evening, for rescinding the standing order on Enclosure Bills. The House was aware that the object of his notice was, to enforce the standing orders, which provided that in all enclosure bills a suitable spot should be set apart for the recreation of the people; but this laudable object had been laxly looked after, and his purpose, therefore, was to frame such a new regulation as would enable committees on such bills to avail themselves to the full of that beneficial order. He must say, however, that while committees were composed of Gentlemen more or less interested in the matter before them, it was not surprising that there was no one found on such occasions to guard the rights of the labouring classes. The standing order for which his motion was intended as a substitute was, nevertheless, framed for that purpose; although its origin had been neglected, and it had been gradually allowed to subside into a nullity. He would now submit his amended order
 471 l. 472
 Captain F. H. Berkeley  said that, as a naval man, he felt called upon to say a few words on the subject of the present motion. He felt bound to say, that, as far as his experience extended, the present system tended to create disgust in the service, and
 492 esprit de corps 493 494
 Mr. Warburton  said, in his opinion it was greatly to be marvelled at, that in this present scientific age a committee should be required on the subject. Surely natural philosophy had made so far way into the Admiralty, that they knew the value of means for preventing the damage done by lightning. As to this there could be no doubt. The only question was, as to the proper means to be adopted for attaining the object. He considered, that it would be superfluous to go into the investigation of a subject that was known to every body. He thought when the noble Lord had got his committee, it would be as well that it should refrain from sitting for some time, in order that the Admiralty might make inquiry into the subject.
 The Speaker  assured the hon. Member that no apology was due to him. He should have been most happy to have entertained his complaint, but he did not prefer it in a regular manner.
 The Speaker  said, that in consequence of what had just fallen from the noble Lord, he felt it his duty to state, that one of his principal duties was to watch the proceedings of that House, and that when a precedent was about to be made which appeared to him a new one, or one which had not been clearly anticipated, to draw to it the attention of the House. This seemed to him to be in some respects a new proceeding. Here was a standing order of the House by which it was proposed, that a tax, large or small, it did not signify as regarded the precedent, but that a certain tax should be imposed. This resolution appeared to him, therefore, to be one which it would not be advisable for the House to adopt without careful consideration. The object which the hon. Gentleman had in view might be a very proper one, and might, perhaps, be met with the insertion of these words, "That provision be made for attaining the same." But he (the Speaker) submitted, that laying down specifically and positively in a resolution of this kind, that in all cases of enclosure a certain tax should be made in a particular form upon the people, was a course which the House ought not to sanction, without very careful consideration. He was not expressing any opinion for or against the resolution, but merely stating, that in its present form, they ought not to adopt it without further consideration.
 Mr. Plumptre  thought that, through false economy and false patriotism, our present establishment was too low for the honour and safety of the country.
 Mr. Hume  said, they were extremely warlike in that House; but, though he had taken considerable pains to ascertain whether there was any ground for the apprehensions which were entertained on this subject by many hon. Members, he could find, out of doors, no foundation for
 495
 Mr. Pease  supported the principle of the resolution, but protested against that part of the statement of the hon. Mover which implied, that they represented the feelings of a particular class of the community only, and were disinclined to protect the interests of the poor.
 Mr. Slaney  observed, that this was a case in which the House gave to property in the neighbourhood of populous towns an additional value, but in doing so said to the owners of it, that there should be a small portion of it allotted for the welfare of the inhabitants. As a matter of justice, that appeared to him to be a very fair exchange between the parties. Property of very little value was rendered of very considerable value through the agency of Parliament, and he thought it a very fair demand to make in return, that a small portion of that property should be set apart for the benefit of the public.
 Admiral Adam  said, the real question was, whether suitable conductors could be made so securely as not to be subjected to flaws which would render them rather the cause of danger than safety; that was a question that had not yet been settled to the satisfaction of the Board of Admiralty.
 Sir C. Adam : To hear the complaint of the hon. Gentleman who last addressed them, one would suppose that our navy was in the lowest state of degradation. Sir R. Stopford, however, was of a very different opinion, for he considered the ships under his command as well qualified to bear the British flag in triumph as ever our men of war were in former times. Nobody could deny, that foreign powers had lately taken the greatest pains to put their ships in the best order. But it should be borne in mind, that there were very few French men of war afloat, and that all those sent to Mexico were experimental ships. It was true, that the French and the Russians had introduced guns of a larger calibre than those which were formerly used. We were, of course, obliged to follow their example, and to have our guns on a larger scale; but he had the authority of officers in command for saying that our ships were more quickly and efficiently worked than those which belonged to foreign nations. Much had been said of the necessity of keeping up a sufficient number of men. He admitted that, in 1836, such was the demand for seamen, that many of our ships were obliged to remain in port for a considerable time through want of hands. But the men of war which were sent on service were by no means ill manned. When British ships carried on commerce with all the ports of the world, he thought it was obvious we could get men from these ships if we wanted them. The gallant Admiral (Codrington) had asserted that there was a difference of opinion between the noble Lord at the head of the Admiralty and the naval Members of the Board as to the proportion which our peace should bear to our war complement. To this statement he gave the most distinct denial.
 Sir E. Codrington  was understood to say, that the question of the mode of Manning her Majesty's ships, which he proposed to submit to the House, had usually been treated as a party question, and had on that ground been brought prominently before the House. He hoped, however, to have the votes of hon. Gentlemen in favour of his motion, though he did not bring it forward as a party question. The motion he had to make was, "That the system of reducing the crews of her Majesty's ships in time of peace below the number required to make them efficient in time of war is injurious to the best interests of the service; and that it is the opinion of this House, that all her Majesty's ships, when actively employed, or about to quit the British channel, should, in future, have but one complement of men, whether in peace or war." In those discussions which had taken place before the House on the navy estimates observations had been made on the necessity of keeping the navy in a condition for all purposes; and one side of the House had attributed to the other great neglect, and that charge had been mutually retaliated. But there was no question but that there had been great deterioration in the navy, whether it were the fault of this side of the House, or the other; but he believed, that the navy had suffered by both parties. A great deal had been said about ships and stores by the right hon. Baronet opposite. The former first Lord of the Admiralty had said, "I launched so many ships: I did this, and I did that." Why, that was one cause of the deterioration. But the question was not about the ships or the stores, but was about the seamen. The noble Lord, now at the head of the Admiralty, did not know what a seaman was. The noble Lord had said a great deal about the ships and stores, he should like to know what this Lord knew about the navy. Every one of the Members of the Admiralty Board seemed to know a great deal about the patronage of the navy, and of the advantages of having the navy appointments in their hands; but none of them seemed to hint to understand the value of seamen, and what were the means best calculated to keep them in the service, and to keep the officers contented, and the whole of the crews in such a state as to be fit for service when required. Seamen could not learn their duties in ships which were not sufficiently manned. There must be an efficient ship's company, in order that the seamen might learn the duties they
 479 480 481 482 483
 Sir E. Codrington  seconded the motion. In addition to the instances mentioned by the noble Lord, he would refer to two vessels which had been lost in South America, on which coast the effect of the lightning was most tremendous. So many vessels had been lost from this cause, that if the cost of the experiment was likely to be ten times the sum which it would be, it would be well worth the trial, for where conductors had been applied, no vessel had ever been destroyed by lightning. He could see no objection to the plan whatever.
 Sir E. Codrington  in reply said, even on the score of economy the hon. Member for Kilkenny ought to vote for his motion, because he did not ask for more men, but that one or two ships should be discharged, and the men drafted to other ships so that they might be rendered efficient. He claimed the vote of the hon. Member, because, by his plan, there would be a saving of stores for the ships which he wanted to be put out of commission. The present Government only continued the old system of the Tory misrule. He had represented the state of the Navy to the noble Lord and to the Premier, and to the Admiralty, but they all said the system was working very well. He would rather go to sea with ten ships well manned than with twenty ships half manned, according to the present system.
 Sir F. Trench  wished to preface his observations by an apology to the Speaker for his observation when he made a complaint on Friday night.
 Sir F. Trench  should not have felt satisfied without having made the apology. He had often heard the Speaker say, that he was the servant of the House. Now, in his opinion, the Speaker was their master. He regarded him as a schoolmaster, the great majority of whose pupils were as riotous, as untoward, and as undisciplined a body of youths as any pre-
 497 "That it is essential to the safety of this House, and to the health and safety of its Members, that a report be obtained from competent scientific authorities, whether the adoption of the oleo-oxygen Bude light, may not expose this House and its Members to the danger of explosion, or to the minor annoyance of a tainted atmosphere, from any trifling accident.
"That there be laid before this House an estimate of the probable expense of the experiment of the oleo-oxygen Bude light now in progress. Also, of the probable expense of the machinery proposed to be employed to produce this light. Also, of the estimated nightly cost of the light to be produced. Also, of the proposed mode of remunerating the patentee, whether by salary, by contract or by gift."
 Captain Pechell  thought that there could not be a doubt that our ships were inefficiently manned; but, at the same time, he was quite ready to admit, that the fault did not altogether rest with the present Board of Admiralty. He could not, however, congratulate his hon. Friend below him upon the manner in which he had
 491
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, that the House ought not to interfere with the Executive Government, in matters of this sort; the better course would be for the Admiralty to undertake the inquiry, and appoint a commission for that purpose, consisting of four men of science, which would prevent the establishment of a precedent that might be very inconvenient.
 Colonel Wood  did not think, that they were improving the law with respect to turnpike roads by their legislation. He thought, that the roads were better under the old system than even under the bill of 1835, the great fault of which was the abolition of the statute labour. He did not like the present Bill—it would inflict a new Board upon the country—it would necessarily require new officers, and lead to great expense. If the parishes were compelled to have a paid surveyor, a great many difficulties that at present existed in the case of parish boards would be avoided; but he strongly objected to the new board proposed by the bill. He moved as an Amendment, "That the bill be re-committed this day six months."
 Mr. S. Lefevre  was in favour of the plan of the hon. Member for Sussex.
 Sir George Strickland  wished to draw the attention of the House only to the first portion of the clause, which, and not the entire clause, was under discussion. Let them divide upon that, leaving out the passage down to the word "Board." He moved the omission of this part of the clause.
 Sir G. Strickland  proposed to throw out that part of the clause enacting the appointment of a District Surveyor and District Boards, and to substitute nothing in its place.
 Mr. Pryme  opposed the bill, the principle of which had been acted upon in a section of Birmingham, but had not operated satisfactorily. In Liverpool also such a measure had worked extremely ill, driving the inhabitants of small houses into still smaller houses, and not unfrequently into cellars. He would not say more, than that he considered the bill injurious to the comforts and happiness of the humbler classes of the community, and he should therefore vote against the second reading.
 Mr. Burroughs  supported the bill, because he was sure, that it would be beneficial to the poorer classes. The system of rating had been very much changed by what was called Mr. Scrope's Act; and it should be borne in mind, that the Poor Law Amendment Act had materially affected this question. Before these two Acts passed, cottage property was to a great extent not rated at all, or the occupiers were exempted from payment with the consent of the Churchwardens and Overseers. But by Mr. Scrope's Act all property was to be rated at a rack rental, and was likely to effect its object as far as regarded large properties, but not so in the case of small properties, for he believed, that hardly any two benches of magistrates in the kingdom adopted the same plan, This was not surprising, as a difference of opinion prevailed among those from whom they might expect a sound exposition of the law. A case was submitted for the opinion of her Majesty's Attorney-General, "whether Churchwardens and overseers were competent to give a valid consent to an exemption from rates where a board of guardians or a select vestry exists." The opinion given was a decided negative. A similar case was submitted to Sir W. Follett, and his answer was, "I am of opinion, that the power of giving consent to the exemption of poor persons from the payment of rates is still in the Churchwardens and Overseers." How, then, were the magistrates to act? The present was not a perfect measure; but, although it would not entirely remedy the evils which he wished to see
 505
 Colonel Wood  was persuaded, that the safest course would be, to leave the law on this subject as it stood. He should therefore vote against the second reading of the bill, more particularly as he was of opinion that the termination which had been put to the system of paying cottage rents from the poor-rates would prove highly advantageous to the country. With that conviction on his mind, he could not help thinking that the present system ought to have a longer trial, and that the bill now before the House was uncalled for and premature. If, however, it should pass the second reading, then he should, when it came to be committed, move certain clauses as to the amount of rating to be paid by the owners.
 Sir G. Strickland  was opposed to the bill because he did not think that was the proper time to disfranchise any part of the people because they were poor. He wished that rates should be paid by the lowest classes possible, for any one paying even a small rate, felt himself raised in society, as he was then enabled to stand on the same footing as his superior by being enabled to vote in vestries.
 Mr. Langdale  disapproved of the bill, as tending still more to separate the poorer classes from the classes above them; inasmuch as the occupiers of small cottages, not being rated under the bill to the poor-rate, would be excluded from vestry meetings, and thereby prevented
 504
 Mr. A. White  assured the House, that if he thought the bill would be at all injurious to the interests of the poor man,
 507
 Mr. Cresswell  objected on principle to the measure. He saw no reason why the owners of cottage property should have a different rule applied to them with regard to rating from that which applied to owners of other kinds of property. The plan had been tried, and had failed in Liverpool, where it was found oppressive to the poorer classes themselves. He moved, that the bill be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. Cayley  believed, that the effect of the bill, if passed, would be to prevent the investment of capital in small tenements, and consequently to cause a scarcity of houses, and an increase in the scale of rents. It would, therefore, be injurious to the poor man, and on that ground ought to be opposed.
 Mr. Pendarves  was in favour of the bill, which he thought was necessary to prevent the owners of small cottages from escaping from payments to which they were fairly liable.
 Mr. Sanford  supported the appointment of District Boards.
 Mr. Darby  opposed it, on the ground, that it would occasion the withdrawal of several persons from the management of roads and proposed as an Amendment, that the Justices should give notice at Petty Sessions to the Overseers and Churchwardens of the different parishes, of their intention to divide the parishes into districts, and that at a Special Sessions, to be held in consequence, the districts shall be formed, and notice thereof given to the different parishes; and that the parishes in vestry assembled, shall return the names of persons for District Surveyor to the Justices, who shall appoint one from the list thus given, and shall fix his salary. He would not, however, press his amendment.
 Mr. Barneby  supported the bill.
 Mr. Barneby  said, that after the division which had just taken place, he did not know whether or not he ought to move, that the Chairman report progress, and the Committee ask leave to sit again. If the House preferred it, however, he had no objection to postpone all the clauses relating to the constitution of the boards, and proceed with the other parts of the bill. He moved that the Chairman report progress:—Ayes 47; Noes 18:Majority 29.
 Mr. Barneby  moved, the order of the day for the further consideration of the report on the Highways Bill.
 Mr. Barneby  complained of Members proposing new clauses without having them previously printed, and supported the original clause.
 Mr. Benett  agreed with the view taken by the hon. Baronet the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, and thought the present law sufficient to ensure good highways if it were properly enforced.
 Mr. Briscoe  had not heard a single dissentient voice out of the House against the principle of the bill, and earnestly hoped that the second reading of it would be carried by a large majority.
 Mr. Plumptre  would vote for the second reading, being persuaded that the measure would prove a very great advantage to the poor.
 Mr. Brotherton  would vote for the bill, because he thought it would be a great benefit to the poor. If it was proposed to exclude the cottages let under a certain rent from being rated at all, he would vote for it, as he thought the poor paid out of all proportion towards the other taxes. His wish, founded upon the scenes of distress he had seen in the Borough he had the honour to represent, was, that the poor should never see the tax-gatherer. The landlords were to be allowed fifty per cent. for the trouble they were to be put to, and he thought that was just. It was not calculated, as some hon. Members had stated, to deprive any person of the right of voting, and he was sure, if the measure were fully explained to them, that it would meet with the approbation of the poor.
 Mr. Pease  was of opinion, that the bill would be productive of great benefit to the poor man, and he should therefore vote for the second reading.
 Mr. R. Gordon  said, that the main features of the bill had been approved of by the committee which sat to investigate the subject, with the exception of three Members.
 Mr. R. Gordon  moved the second reading of the Rating of Tenements Bill.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that disfranchisement would not, in any degree, result from this measure. It would not deprive any one of a vote, and as he believed the bill would be beneficial to the poor, he should
 506
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  had endeavoured to look upon this question with a perfectly impartial eye, because a number of wealthy persons among his constituents had requested him to support some measure of this kind, while, on the other hand, many poorer persons, who had invested their small savings in such kind of property, wished him to oppose it; and, he must say, that if any class of people should be looked upon with favour by the House, it was that class who had invested their money in land with the natural feelings of Englishmen wishing to have a stake in the soil, and that what they had acquired by industry should descend to their children. It was on no principle of the elective franchise that he felt bound to oppose the bill. If the Legislature would pass an Act to rate large estates, machinery, or even funded property, so that the rating of all property might be equitable, he should not object to the small cottage proprietors submitting to the common lot; but as long as the present anomalies in the law of rating were allowed to continue, it would be unjust to come suddenly upon the small proprietors of one of the worst descriptions of property. He believed that in the town which he represented, there were no fewer than 100 persons who were proprietors of small tenements, the rents of which were collected with great difficulty, and which were deeply mortgaged. The obligations contracted in respect to such property had been contracted in faith of the present law. He asked the House, then, whether it were prepared to pass a bill which must be injurious to the interest of that particular class of persons to which he referred? As to the clause in the bill making it optional, that was nothing more nor less than a piece of mockery.
 Lord Stanley  observed, that it was well known that a great number of petitions were got up, a considerable portion of the persons signing which were utterly careless, and sometimes utterly ignorant of their contents. Now, there was nothing more likely to draw contempt upon the whole system of petitions, and he much feared that the admission of printed and lithographed petitions would only increase that evil. The hon. Member for Bridport hoped that the reception of lithographed petitions
 512
 The Chancellor  of the Exchequer said, he had certainly understood from those who had waited upon him on the subject, that no money vote was to be asked for on the present occasion. He fully concurred in the suggestion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was not there to deny in any shape the merits of the invention of Messrs. Fourdrinier, or that it had been of great benefit to the public at large, and also to the revenue of the country, but it by no means followed that they were entitled to pecuniary compensation from that House. There was no subject upon which the House was bound to exercise greater discretion than in money grants. The mere question of the ingenuity of an invention would not give the party a claim upon the bounty of that House, and he did not think the present case formed any exception to the general rule upon that subject. He was one of those who thought it right that rewards should be given to merit, but it behoved the House to exercise the power they had to give those rewards with caution, otherwise they would be offering a premium to applications for pecuniary grants. He was willing to consent to the present motion, and after the opinion of the House had been expressed upon the subject, he would state what course her Majesty's Ministers intended to pursue.
 Mr. Pryme,  as a member of the committee, begged to offer his testimony to the extraordinary merits of the invention. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be induced to reward it.
 The Chancellor  of the Exchequer hoped
 522 ex parte
 Mr. Pryme  rose to say, that he could not assent to the motion. He would admit, that the case made out was one of great hardship; but he hardly thought it a sufficient reason for abolishing courts that might have other functions and powers which were exercised beneficially. He was adverse to every case being brought up to the metropolis, inconvenient and expensive as it might be to the parties concerned; and although there might be some points on which most hon. Members would say these courts ought to be abolished, yet he thought, that instead of that being done, it might be better to modify them, and would therefore suggest an amendment to that effect.
 Mr. O'Connell  would vote for the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth, but in following that course he did not mean to impute any blame or censure to Mr. Morris. The hon. Gentleman (the Member for Lambeth) had stated two facts, which in his opinion, entitled the rev. Gentleman to whom the motion had reference to the respect of every one. The rev. gentleman was a pluralist in point of fact, but he was no pluralist in practice. He gave the whole emoluments of one of the livings which he held to the person who performed the duties, and he resided on the other, and preached regularly to his congregation four times a-day on Sunday. Such conduct was highly praiseworthy, and certainly entitled the rev. Gentleman to respect. There was one part of the statement of the hon. Member for Lambeth which he wished he could have forgotten. The hon. Gentleman had said, that Mr. David Jones had talked of the objects of reverence in the Established Church in irreligious and revolting terms. Now, Mr. Jones was not punished for that, but he ought to have been; for he could imagine nothing more unbecoming than for any individual to speak irreverently on such subjects. It was a bad habit, and he was sorry to say, was becoming every day more common. Such conduct was disgraceful, disgusting, and abominable, and could not be too severely punished. The noble Lord opposite had made strong imputations against the Roman Catholics; yet the noble Lord had stood forward as the advocate of toleration. He had, however, set so bad an example, that no one would be tempted to follow him. The noble Lord boasted of having the confidence of the clergy of Durham, and condemned the conduct of those who brought charges against absent individuals who might find no person to defend them. But had the noble Lord acted upon that principle himself? No, for the noble Lord had imputed premeditated perjury to an absent individual. Here as charity—here was Christianity? The noble Lord had admitted he knew
 540
 Mr. O'Connell  had a right to be heard without interruption, and he begged that the meek and modest representative of the clergy of Durham would allow him to proceed. In regard to the motion before the House, he was of opinion that the course which had been pursued in Scotland relative to minor ecclesiastical courts ought to be adopted here. Was there any Gentleman who could vindicate the jurisdiction exercised by those courts, where the costs were enormous, where appeals would be ruinous, and where the judges had no practice to qualify them for the performance of their duties? Practice was disregarded by the judges of those courts, and yet every one was aware that practice was absolutely necessary to qualify a judge for the proper discharge of his important functions. The officers of those courts, too, were interested in the number of causes which were brought for trial, and they were also interested in increasing the amount of costs. Let the House consider that Mr. Jones, as it had been stated by the highest authority, was in gaol upon an illegal decision. He had been imprisoned against all law and all justice, and he would ask whether a stronger case could by possibility be made out for the abolition of those courts than that which had been laid before the House by the hon. Member for Lambeth? Such proceedings as had taken place in the case of Mr. Jones tended to injure religion, and it was necessary for the safety of the subject that those minor courts should be abolished.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would explain, in a few words, why the resolution of the hon. Member for Lambeth did not, in his opinion, imply any censure upon the Government, or cast any reflection upon the rev. gentleman to whom allusion had so often been made. He felt great reluctance, at all times, in being called upon to decide, by a resolution of the House, on any matter affecting the private character or conduct of individuals, or in regard to any judicial proceeding, and he thought, unless the case was extreme, that it was better for that House never to adopt such a proceeding. In the present instance, however, although the hon. Member for Lambeth had introduced the name of Mr. Morris into the statement which he had made, yet the resolution before the House had no reference to the case of that individual. The House was not called upon to pass any judgment upon the conduct of that individual, and for himself he should decline giving any opinion on the transactions which had been brought under their consideration. He would assume, on the statement of the hon. Member for Carmarthen, that Mr. Morris was the best of all clergymen, and that there was no ground whatever for any imputation upon his
 542 543
 Mr. O'Connell : I spoke of the Member for Durham as the champion of the clergy.
 Mr. T. D. Ackland  objected to the House proceeding upon particular cases of grievance to the adoption of general principles to enforce the discipline of the Church. The real cause of these discussions was, that there were two parties in this country, the one of whom was desirous of maintaining the connection of the Church with the state as it now existed, while the other was conscientiously desirous of severing that connexion. He thought it most objectionable to attempt to alter the Church, as by law established, upon a mere isolated case. He, for one, should endeavour to avoid entering into a discussion of abstract questions so introduced. If, however, he should, at any time, be led into such discussions, he trusted he should abstain from all acrimonious feelings and bitterness of speech. He would submit to the right hon. and learned Gentleman, and to those who held his opinions, whether it would not be much better, if they were determined to bring forward this great question, affecting as it did the vital prin-
 549
 Mr. W. O. Stanley  observed, that he considered this a case of oppression, and that the poor man had here suffered for the neglect of the rich. If any part of the statements which had been made by the hon. Member for Lambeth were questioned, he had the proofs of their correctness in his possession. He would put it to those who had regard for the Church to say, whether that power should not be abolished which was tyrannically exercised. He hoped the House would use its utmost endeavours to purge the Church from abuse.
 Lord F. Egerton  thought, that the Government generally had drawn the line of reward for merit with great severity. He was of opinion, that the most liberal consideration of the House ought to be directed to this application. The invention was one of great importance, and in the highest degree deserving of public support.
 Lord Grenville Somerset  was anxious to express the feelings he entertained on this subject, in consequence of the speeches of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and of the right hon. and learned Gentleman at the head of the ecclesiastical courts of this country. There was one point in which he fully concurred with the Chancellor of the Exchequer—he agreed with him in wishing to see a complete change in the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the country: and he was led to adopt that desire by the speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had made a declaration of his opinion upon an  ex parte s. 545 s.; s. l. s.
 Mr. Hawes  replied, and said, that he had a precedent for the course he had pursued on this occasion. In a question which greatly affected the church, precisely the same course was adopted by Sir William Scott, who, in the first instance, brought forward individual cases, and afterwards' founded a general measure upon them. The reason he had not mentioned, in his notice, the case of Mr. James, as well as that of Mr. Jones, was, that all the Welch papers were full of the statement of that particular case, which made it unnecessary for him to give hon Gentlemen any specific notice of it. With regard to the suggestion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to omit the two last words, he was most willing that the motion, so altered, should be adopted.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that he thought it his duty to bring under discussion in that House a petition which he had had the honour to present a few weeks ago from a poor tradesman, who was confined in gaol under the authority, or, he should rather say, in consequence of the exercise of the jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical Courts. In bringing a motion of this sort before the House, involving, as perhaps it would involve, the mention of the names of individuals of some station in the country, he wished while he did not in the slightest degree shrink from stating the facts, and expressing his opinions on those facts, to state those facts accurately, and to express his feelings and opinions without committing any personal offence. If he were correctly informed, if the facts stated in the petition were true, a more flagrant case of oppression had scarcely ever been brought before the notice of the House of Commons; and although it might be difficult to deal with individual cases, or to offer compensation or reparation for the wrong or injury, that might have been sustained, at least the discussion would have this effect, that it would direct the eyes of the public to the course of proceedings of those Ecclesiastical Courts, and if it did not ultimately remove them, it would in all probability materially temper and influence the exercise of their power. In the first place, then, he would state the
 523 524 "The only answer required to these articles is a negative issue on the part of the defendant. The promovent is then put on proof of the articles, and must make such proof of them as he best can. The articles themselves are absurd, and their admission should have been opposed on the part of the defendant. As it now stands, all that the defendant can do is to cross-examine promovent's witnesses, if he thinks fit; and when their examinations are concluded, should it be necessary, to file a defensive plea. If the defendant can prove by cross-examining the witnesses of the prodmovent the necessary facts to his defence (especially that he, the defendant, called a vestry, which vestry refused a rate), it may be unnecessary for him to plead, otherwise he must file at the proper time a defensive plea. I think the promovent's case untenable, and his proceeding unwarrantable on the face of it; and unless the cause is mismanaged on the behalf of the defendant, the final issue must, I think, be the dismissal of the defendant with his full costs." 525 "I am of opinion that the articles are not proved; and that the defendant, upon the evidence sent herewith, is entitled to his dismissal. It would have been as well to have established that the defendant is in a humble condition of life, and that the incumbent's warden had not qualified; hut these circumstances appear to me not sufficient to induce me to advise his proctor to plead, and I recommend him to decline pleading, and to submit that the case is not proved, and that the defendant should be dismissed with his costs. The proceeding is but little calculated to assist the question of diocesan jurisdiction, and will, in my opinion, on an appeal, make but a very sorry appearance. Should, however, the defendant be sentenced against, it would, I think, be proper to consider whether he should not appeal; but I trust that the case will be dismissed." 526 527 528 529
 Mr. D. Maclean  said, he had been on the committee, and had heard sufficient to be convinced that this would be a most worthy exception to the general rule, and a very proper occasion on which to make a grant. He would put it to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it were not a claim to be taken into consideration. He did think, that if there ever were a case on which to set up a precedent of justice, this was a case. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would allow them to go into committee, after the general expression they had heard in favour of the grant.
 Mr. Baines  said, that every individual, with one exception, to whom the Messrs. Fourdrinier had been indebted, was paid 20 s.
 Mr. Darby  said, that after what had fallen from his hon. Friend (Mr. G. Knight), although he still entertained the opinion he had already expressed on the subject, he would not press the previous question to a division.
 Mr. Darby  thought, if the House were to divide upon the motion of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Lambeth, and if the hon. Gentleman were to carry with him a majority, that a grievous imputation would be cast upon the characters of Mr. Morris and Mr. James, and he was therefore, unwilling that the House should pursue a course so fraught with injustice. But there was another circumstance which was deserving of the consideration of the Gentlemen opposite. The right hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite had stated the cause of the delay which had taken
 541 ex parte
 Mr. Wood  gave notice of his intention to do so on Tuesday next.
 Mr. G. Wood,  in presenting the report of the Committee on public petitions, said he had been requested to call the attention of the House to the fact of several lithographed petitions having been recently presented, and to ask the House whether they were of opinion, that as printed petitions were, by a rule of the House, rejected, lithographed petitions did or did not fall under the same rule?
 Mr. G. Knight : Well, at all events, it was too much the practice to attack the clergy, and he thought those sweeping charges which had been brought forward by the hon. Member for Lambeth against the clergy of the Church were little calculated to promote peace. It certainly appeared to him that the hon. Member for Lambeth had at least indulged in strong insinuations against the ministers
 544
 Mr. G. Knight  expressed a hope that his hon. Friend would not press his motion to a division. He hoped everybody would give him credit for having at all times protested against the indulgence of any feeling of asperity on the subject of religion in that House. But if, according to the wish of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, they were to entertain any hope of different sects living in peace together, those sweeping charges which were too often made by hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House should not be repeated. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had attacked the clergy of Durham, speaking ironically of their meekness and modesty—
 Mr. H. G. Knight  said, one important thing to consider was, that the unfortunate inventor had in this case been ruined by protecting the invention. He hoped that on this occasion the House would attend to the application.
 Mr. Warburton  did not see the common sense of excluding printed petitions. It was said that they were less likely to be the spontaneous act of the petitioners than manuscript petitions; but he could not see how that was the case, since the petitions, whether written, printed, or lithographed, were prepared by other individuals than the bulk of the petitioners themselves. He did not know, therefore, why they should make a difference between petitions which, merely for the sake of saving manual labour, were printed or lithographed, and those that were presented in manuscript. He hoped the reception of lithographed petitions would form a precedent for the reception of printed ones.
 The Speaker  said, that it certainly was necessary for the House to come to some decision upon the subject. It having been decided, by a resolution of the House, not to receive printed petitions, it behoved them to assign a reason why they should receive lithographed petitions. The object to be attained was, to put the House in possession of the real sentiments of the people; and as it was rather a matter of importance, perhaps some hon. Member would think it right to call to it the attention of the House.
 The Speaker  said, that there were three stages to be gone through before the hon. Gentleman could arrive at the object which he had in view; and the first step to be taken was to refer the question to a Committee of the whole House, and to have their report on a resolution for granting the money intended to be given as compensation.
 Mr. John Jones  said, that he was a personal friend of the clergyman, Mr. 'Ebenezer Morris, and of the other gentlemen who had acted as the judges on this occasion, but he knew nothing of Mr. James, who had been mentioned, and he had therefore some right to complain, though if he had been aware that such a case would have been brought forward he had no doubt he should have been able to give a satisfactory answer to it. With respect to the resolution, he was of opinion that it went too far, and that it was based on a very weak foundation. The courts in question might require some alteration, but that he would leave to the Ministers of the Crown. The petitioner, Mr. Jones, had gone further than the hon. Member for Lambeth, for he had called on the House to abolish all inferior ecclesiastical courts; and this, he supposed, was, because Mr. Jones was in prison; but the hon. Member had not expressed such a wish, acting no doubt out of respect to the constituents of his borough. Now, if these courts were abolished, where, he
 530 The Welch Levites tossed in a Blanket, S. Lushington: l. 531 l. l., l. 532
 Mr. Jones : No, no. What I stated was, that the hon. Gentleman had presented a petition, in which very unqualified abuse was used against a friend of mine.
 Mr. Jones  said, that the absence of the hon. Gentleman during the time he (Mr. Jones) spoke was very unfortunate, because if the hon. Gentleman had been present, he would have known that no reflection had been made by him as the champion of religion. He did not presume to stand up in that House as the champion of religion. What he stated was, that he did not know whether the ecclesiastical courts wanted amendment or not: his principal object, however, in rising, was to vindicate Mr. Morris, and to set the House right as to a matter of fact. His eye was bad, and not having the pleasure of knowing the hon. Member for Leicester, he asked whether that hon. Member were in the House, and it was said that he was. So far, therefore, from having done any act against him in his absence, he spoke in the belief that the hon. Gentleman was present. A friend of his being personally concerned in this matter, the House would, perhaps, permit him to observe, that what had fallen from the hon. Member for Lambeth had been previously inserted in a newspapar, and Mr. Ebenezer Morris, having been called upon to reply to the charge, did negative every accusation made against him, and the Court of Queen's Bench had granted a rule  nisi
 Mr. Hume  said, that it was true every inventor thought that his own discovery was of the first importance to himself and the nation, and perhaps the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be right in opposing such a claim as at first sight that appeared to be. But it was, however, a case which possessed peculiarly strong claims upon their sympathy. Sir William Congreve had got 1,200 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he apprehended, that the hon. Gentleman should either move an address to the Crown, or that the House should go into a Committee of the whole House on the subject of his motion. It was quite clear, that the House could come to no resolution on the present motion.
 Mr. Hume  said, that, as admitted by the noble Lord, persons were frequently called upon to sign petitions which they did not understand. If so, what better means could be resorted to for rendering petitions intelligible than by having them printed? There were many persons who could not read written who could read printed petitions. Besides, if petitions of any considerable length were printed, hon. Members would be much more likely to read them. He always asked if he could have a printed copy, as he could read it much more easily.
 Mr. Godson  said, that in the year 1800 the Messrs. Fourdrinier were worth £.14,000 a-year. They had applied a portion of their capital for the purpose of introducing this machinery and making improvements. Owing to this they found they were opposed by all the paper manufacturers in the kingdom; and it was not one law suit, it was nearly one hundred which they were obliged to bring for the purpose of enforcing their rights. The House would see that no individual, however rich, could stand a combination such as this. In 1807 they found that by courts of law to protect their rights and other proceedings they were £.60,000 out of pocket. In 1807 they became bankrupts, and the assignees determined to go on with the actions; they recovered a verdict; and on a motion for a new trial, the Lord Chief Justice said, that as the patent was for making paper from 30 to 40 feet long, and from 3 to 12 feet wide, the machine which was produced in Court could not effect that; so that they were ruined, not from a defect
 521
 Sir S. Lushington  said that, as he had been appealed to from the other side of the House, he felt bound to offer a few obervations on the subject under discussion. In doing so, however, it was his intention to deal with both parties to the question with somewhat less of virulence and heat, and more of temper and moderation, than characterised the speech of the noble Lord who had just spoken. And he could not help thinking that anything but concord was the result most likely to be produced by the mode of arguing the question adopted by the noble Lord, condemnatory as it was of the conduct of the entire body of the Dissenters. Before, however, he proceeded to the case at issue he felt it to be his duty to set forth as briefly as possible what had been done by the ecclesiastical commissioners in the matter relative to the Courts in question. The ecclesiastical commission, of which the Archbishop of Canterbury was at the head, had after mature consideration come to the resolution that the whole of the jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical Courts which had any thing in it of a criminal nature, as in contradistinction to its civil jurisdiction, should be utterly and entirely abolished; that was, that the power of adjudicating on such issues as that which gave rise to the case before the House should be altogether taken away from these Courts, inferior and superior as they were without exception. If that resolution had been carried into effect the House would have escaped the case before it, as it was one of those comprised in the class of cases comprehended in that objectionable jurisdiction. In addition to this, another cause of their abolition existed in their number and the diversity of the practice which obtained in them. There were upwards of 360 of them in all, and each had generally a distinct system of administering the ecclesiastical law. It was, therefore, recommended that they should be abolished, and the jurisdiction left remaining to the Ecclesiastical Courts
 536 537 538
 Sir S. Lushington,  in explanation, denied, that he had declared any opinion on the conduct of the inferior Ecclesiastical Court upon a mere  ex parte 546 s.
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  rose for the purpose of asking permission of the House to bring in a bill founded upon the principle of that bill which was introduced last Session of Parliament, and which passed the House of Commons with very large majorities, and which was only thrown out by accident in the other House of Parliament by a majority of two. The bill bore the title technically of "The Custody of Infants Bill," the principle of which was to introduce some mitigation into the construction which had been recently put upon the law relating to parent and child, husband and wife; by which law was given to the husband all control over the children, exclusive of the wife, whatever might have been his misconduct, or whatever might be the claim of an innocent mother. By that law she was excluded all access to her child, which thus worked injustice in silence, for the injuries of the innocent in those cases seldom came to light. If the present bill were merely a transcript of the bill of last Session, supported, as that measure was, by a majority of this House, among some of whom were men the last
 550 habeas corpus 551 552
 Mr. Mackinnon,  in compliance with the feeling of the House would withdraw the motion, being perfectly satisfied with the assurance of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he would take the case into consideration.
 Mr. Mackinnon,  in bringing forward the motion on this subject, of which he had given notice, said he regretted that the case of Messrs. Fourdrinier had not fallen into hands more competent to do justice to it than he could pretend to be. The task, however, had been forced on him. In 1836, a committee was appointed to investigate the claims of Messrs. Fourdrinier, and at the instance of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he was named on and appointed chairman of that committee. Until then he had no knowledge whatever of the claimants. When he presented the report of the committee to the House, it was objected to by the Speaker, because the
 513 l. Times 514 l. l., l., l., l.
 Mr. Mackinnon  said, that he would adopt the suggestion which had been thrown out. The hon. Gentleman then
 515
 Mr. W. Ellis  said, that there were many excellent and most conscientious men amongst the Dissenters, who would prefer going to prison to paying anything towards Church-rates, and that great allowance should be made for their conscientious scruples. The House should bear in mind the valuable services rendered to the country by Dissenters, by the excellent
 533
 Sir C. Burrell  denied, that the clergy of the Established Church stood in the way of improvement, for, on the contrary, they had ever manifested a spirit of the greatest liberality in regard to mea-
 539
 Sir G. Clerk  did not think there should be any distinction made between them.
 Mr. M. Philips  said, that there was scarcely any invention which had been productive of greater advantage than that of the Messrs. Fourdrinier. There was no one more opposed than he was to granting public money from any regard to individuals; but this case was of so peculiar a nature, that he thought there was a very strong claim upon them for compensation. He had been a Member of the committee, and in his opinion a stronger case was never made than that of the Messrs. Fourdrinier, whose invention might truly be termed a magnificent one—an invention scarcely inferior in importance than calico printing. Such results as had followed that invention would not have been otherwise produced, and feeling strongly
 516
 The Attorney-General  had no objection to the introduction of this bill; and as to the reflections to which the hon. and learned Member had alluded, he must despise them, for he had with honour fought the battle of the other sex. At the same time he would not say at present that he would support the bill in all its details. They were all desirous that the evils which his learned Friend had pointed out should be remedied, and the only question was, whether the remedy which was proposed would, or would not, be a greater inconvenience than the present evils. He hoped, however, that the bill, in its details would be unexceptionable, for it would give him great pleasure if he could conscientiously support it.
 Mr. Easthope  said, that he had presented several petitions that day on the subject under discussion, from the borough which he had the honour to represent, and he understood, that during his temporary absence from the House, his constituents had fallen under the very severe displeasure of the hon and learned Member for Carmarthen—[Mr. Jones had not said anything about the hon. Member for Leicester's constituents.] He was very glad to find, that his constituents were absolved from the hon. and learned Member's anger. Most certainly he did not complain of any discourtesy in any language that had fallen from him; but he understood, that in his temporary absence the hon. and learned Gentleman had said, that he (Mr. Easthope) had acquiesced in a petition containing unqualified terms of censure of an individual, which petition he had not read. I believe said (Mr. Easthope) the hon. and learned Member was understood to say, that I had not examined it.
 Mr. Easthope : Very good. I shall be glad to take the hon. and learned Gentleman upon his own statement. I understand him now to state, that I adopted the very strong and unqualified abuse which he alleges is used against certain parties in this petition. Why, there is no abuse of any party; and I do think, after having read all the words of the petition in my place, that it is matter of some complaint against the hon. and learned Gentleman, who sets himself up as a censor of others, that he should be so mistaken as to the ground of the complaint he has made. There is no complaint contained in the petition, except a complaint against the judgments of the Ecclesiastical Courts. The petitioners state, that David Jones and Mr. Thoro-
 547 548
 Sir Robert Inglis,  agreeing with his right hon. Friend who had just sat down,
 520
 Sir R. Peel: —Sir, I regret that her Majesty's Government have not pursued another course with respect to the claim which is now before us. The constitution has wisely given to the Government the sole power of deciding in such cases as to whether any claim of this description shall be admitted or not; and, no matter how the House of Commons may decide, the veto lies with them. If, in every case where any invention was made, calculated to diminish human pain or labour, or to advance science, the claims of those who were the inventors should be brought under discussion, and recompense granted, the Government would establish precedents that might ultimately be found productive of great difficulty; but, on the other band, if this case be found to be one which, from its peculiar merits, is not calculated to produce the evils which might result from a bad precedent—if it should appear that it is an extraordinary exemption of that description—the Government have the power to grant the compensation claimed. I think, however, that bringing this case before the House for discussion, at a period when her Majesty's Government have not made up their minds as to whether compensation should be granted or not, is calculated rather to embarrass them in its further consideration, and raise hopes in the minds of the claimants which may not ultimately be fulfilled. In such a discussion, where there is a claim before the House upon the part of a person who may be possessed of great ingenuity, and who may also be suffering from the pressure of poverty, when it is no party question, the natural sympathies of the House will be found in favour of the claim, and the majority will be found to vote for compensation. Persons are naturally inclined to lend support to one who is represented as suffering disasters consequent upon his exertions to bring forward an ingenious invention, and it is on that account that the constitution has given to the Government the decision of those claims for compensation. Public sympathy will in general be found to support such claims and I venture to state that I could bring forward one hundred similar cases where the sympathies of the majority in this House would be entirely in favour of the claimants for compensation. Persons are naturally literal towards those possessed of ingenuity. The public purse is very
 518 l., l., l., 519
 Viscount Dungannon  said, that there could be no stronger proof of the justice of that old adage,  "audi alteram partem," l., 534 535 "audi alteram partem"
 Viscount Dungannon  said, he had judged of the conduct of the individual in question by his acts.
 Mr. Lefevre  suggested, that in the letters of intimation a memorandum should be subjoined, that parties would be exposed to expense, and requesting Members to send a special answer whether they could attend.
 Sir George Strickland  said, that the matter did not appear to he of so much importance; there were eighteen Members present, but only two selected, while three were required out of the five who received notices. He thought one great reason of the difficulty which had occurred was owing to this, that the notices were only signed by the clerk of the Committee; whereas, on other occasions, hon. Members were particularly reminded, canvassed, and solicited to attend by the agents for parties on the various bills in progress through the House.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  said, that as he was opposed to the measure  in toto,
 The Attorney General,  in answering the question, would take the opportunity of stating that he had received from all quarters the most gratifying intelligence of
 573
 Lord John Russel  said, that the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman would not enable the Government to meet any emergency that might arise.
 Sir G. Strickland  seconded the amendment, and said, that those who thought the new mode now proposed preferable to the old, would be disappointed in the result. They ought, however, to be much obliged to the right hon. Baronet for the pains he had been at on this difficult subject. This Bill originated in the accusations of corruption and perjury which had been brought against the Members of Election Committees. He knew that he should be accused of entering on a Quixotic expedition in endeavouring to defend the House against these accusations, but he really and decidedly was of opinion, that there was little ground for them. He thought the evil had arisen from the nearly equal division of parties in that House. The Members of committees were quite at sea with regard to the law on the subject, and counsel produced as precedents, the contradictory proceedings of former Committees. In whatever way an Election Committee was constituted, there would
 577 578
 Sir G. Strickland  wished to address a few words to the House in consequence of the observations of the hon. Member who had just sat down. If it were in accordance with the rules of the House that one hon. Member should accuse another of want of common sense, then he bowed with respect to its decision, and should not say a word more upon that subject. The hon. and gallant Member, gallant in attack, had made a most extraordinary accusation with respect to his having given many double votes. He did not know whether any hon. Gentlemen who had been Members of that committee were then in the House, but if there were any such present, he would appeal to them if he had not expressed the painful situation in which he was placed by an unwise provision of the Grenville Act, which compelled him to give double votes. The occasion of giving those double votes arose from one of the Members of the committee having been taken ill. In all those cases he had been compelled to give double votes, and he would ask, did the hon. and gallant Member opposite mean to prove his common sense by saying, that having given one vote he should stultify himself by giving the next vote the other way?
 Mr. Vernon Smith  hoped this discussion would not degenerate into party topics under party feeling. He was not going to refer to any particular case, and therefore he hoped his rising would be an interruption to any other Gentleman getting up who might feel in the least disposes' to continue the discussion in the character it
 582 583
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the motion before the House was for a select committee. Now those who were opposed to the principle of the bill were also opposed to this motion; and he did not, therefore, see how the inconvenience pointed out by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, could be cured by deciding on the motion. They could not decide upon the motion without discussing the principle of the bill.
 Mr. Wynn  said it appeared to him undesirable to do out of committee what it was competent to do in committee. With respect to the application of this rule there was no difference whatever between committees of the whole House and committees above stairs. However, there were instances in which this rule had been departed from; but, as a general principle, he fully concurred that the rule ought to be rigidly adhered to unless on occasions of great importance. If anything was to be introduced into this bill which did not relate to the title of the bill it could only be done by instruction.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it appeared that
 589
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  looking to the experience of late years, had observed that the practice of moving instructions had very much increased. He concurred in the inconvenience of doing by instruction that which which could not be done in committee. What he suggested was that the House should give the committee power of entertaining the question of a Court of Appeal—that they should go into the committee with this understanding; and when they came to the clauses of the bill to which this amendment was intended to be applied, he thought that they would have a much more effectual discussion than they were likely to have at present. He thought that they would discuss the question with more advantage in committee than they could now.
 Lord Stanley  said, that there was one course he would suggest for the consideration of the hon. Member for Liskeard, and which would save the time of the House and answer the object the hon. Member had in view. He understood that in the proposition of the hon. Member there were two distinct points, one of which he would be able to move without an instruction, the second requiring an instruction. It appeared also that the second was contingent on the first. He saw considerable objection to a course which had been suggested—to re-considering the question in the House after the committee had come to a decision, and moving the re-committal of the bill. Would not the hon. Member be satisfied that, without any debate, the House should agree to give to the committee power to consider the question of establishing a tribunal of appeal?
 591
 Mr. O'Connell  asked whether it would not be necessary for the hon. and learned Member to wait till all the original clauses of the bill were gone through, before he could propose any new clauses?
 Mr. O'Connell : A similar point of law arose upon the Belfast committee.
 Mr. O'Connell : The same.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  rose to move an amendment: he said, that as there would be no other opportunity afforded to those who, like himself, objected altogether to the measure, he trusted the House would allow him to offer a few observations in objecttion to the general principle of the bill. That principle was the substitution of selection instead of chance in the formation of a committee. In his opinion the plan proposed would only have the effect of aggravating the evils at present complained of. The chief objection to the
 608 609
 Mr. O'Connell  seconded the amendment, and said, that he objected to the principle of the proposed measure. In the first place, he thought the bill was brought in prematurely; and that a previous Question ought to be settled. Before they attempted to amend the tribunal itself, the natural course would be to amend the law as to the matters which were to come before that tribunal. It seemed to him idle to constitute a tribunal, if the law was bad relating to the matters which came before it. By amending the law, they would be better able to decide what the nature of the tribunal ought to be. But while they had a variety of franchises, complicated clauses respecting registration, and the whole of those multitudinous objections which had been made on election committees, referring more particularly to Ireland, all existing, he thought they would be acting like the philosopher in Gulliver's island of Laputa, who erected the roof of his house before he built up
 610 611 612
 Lord Villiers  defended the conduct of the Committee in the Belfast case, and declared, that every opportunity was afforded to the sitting Members to impugn the petitioner's qualification.
 Sir George Strickland  said, in reference to the few observations of the hon. Member opposite, he could not coincide with him that the law should be cleared up before they could, by any Act, establish a satisfactory election committee. The hon. Member proposed first to clear up the law, and then to establish a general tribunal; but, in his opinion, the other mode would be more satisfactory; for he thought, that if they established a tribunal which would give uniform decisions without going into the law, there was no doubt the law itself would he soon brought to a satisfactory state. The observations of the hon. Baronet who had just sat down had been made in a fair and conciliatory spirit, though possibly this might be partly attributed to the fact, that the hon. Baronet had been himself seated by the decisions of the Committee to which he had referred. As to the heading question of the lists, as it seemed likely to mislead the parties, he had considered the defect important, and had rejected one list, but the hon. Baronet had forgotten that another list, which had a like defect, had been also rejected, and that this told in favour of himself. The second decision on a similar point was, therefore, in favour of the other party, and it was in perfect consistency with the principle of the first decision. In the opinion (continued the hon. Baronet) which the hon. and gallant Baronet opposite (Sir H. Hardinge) has expressed relative to that Committee, he has shown such ignorance, and such a want of common sense, that he, at least, is perfectly disqualified from ever sitting in any judicial capacity. I think, Sir, that if the right hon. and gallant Baronet by his cheering the hon. and learned Member for Dublin means to impute any dishonourable motive to myself as to my conduct on that Committee, I have a right to demand an explanation from him in this
 615
 Colonel Davies  did not wish to inconvenience the House, and would therefore consent to his motion being negatived.
 Colonel Davies  then, in pursuance of the notice which he had given, moved that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee. He admitted that great evils arose from the present system, but he did not believe the measure under consideration would be an efficient remedy for the evils to which it was to be applied.
 Mr. Langdale  would not have risen had it not been for the very strong observations that had been used by the right hon. and gallant Officer opposite (Sir H. Hardinge) in regard to the conduct of his hon. Friend, the Member for Yorkshire. He had not been present at the time when the hon. and gallant Officer had used the language in question, but he understood it was of the strongest nature. He wished, therefore, to ask the right hon. and gallant Officer whether it was to be understood, that he meant to impute dishonourable motives to his hon. Friend. It was to ask for that explanation that he rose on that occasion, and to state, that he looked for an explanation from the hon. and gallant Officer.—[No answer was made to this appeal.]
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that the Committee could not sit again without special notice, and he would therefore move, that the Committee on the bill have leave to sit again on Monday next, as if nothing had happened, so soon as the question connected with the report was disposed of. He certainly thought that some more specific notice should be sent to the selected Members, and that their attendance should be compulsory, unless they could state satisfactory reasons for absence.
 Lord G. Somerset  thought, that if hon. Members who had received notice to attend by the Committee of Selection, did not signify their assent, their presence could not be calculated upon; but, if they did give their assent, all parties certainly had a strong cause of complaint in their non-attendance. He thought the attendance of Members so selected should be made compulsory; but wished to learn from the chairman of the Committee of selection, in what manner notice was sent to Members that had been selected to serve on any committee.
 Lord John Russell  said, that, in moving that the House should, at its rising, adjourn to Monday, he would take the opportunity of making a few observations with regard to the course the Government intended to pursue upon the Jamaica Bill. He understood (for being detained elsewhere, he was not in the House at the time) that the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Tamworth, had given notice that he should on Monday next oppose the Speaker leaving the chair, with the view of rejecting the bill which had been introduced. Now, although he (Lord John Russell) thought that course the most hostile that could possibly be taken, yet at the same time he certainly was of opinion, that if the Government could find, with respect to a measure of this nature, suspending a legislature, that the grounds on which they had originally come to their determination were in any respect erroneous, it certainly would be their bounden duty to adopt some other course—perhaps a course such as that suggested by the right hon. Baronet. But having again considered that course, and having referred to all the reasons on which the bill was originally founded, the Members of the Government were the more confirmed in their opinion that it was necessary they should press on the House the adoption of that bill, and that they should have the opportunity of stating fully all the reasons on which the bill was grounded. He should likewise state that the Government did not consider (although there might possibly be other courses more advisable than that which
 574
 Lord J. Russell  was understood to say,—If I am positively obliged to state my opinion as to whether or not the assessors proposed in the instruction should be appointed, I must pronounce it in favour of the proposition and their appointment. But, notwithstanding this, I feel that there is considerable force in the objection of the right hon. Baronet opposite to the form of the proposition, and that, in consequence, I cannot give it altogether my sanction. When the clauses for the appointment of assessors come before the House in the regular mariner, there may be so many difficulties created by the adoption of this proposition, that the committee may feel itself obliged to abandon them altogether. I am very unwilling, therefore, entertaining as I do this opinion, that the House should be committed to any particular course in respect to the question, by the adoption of the hon. Member's instruction to the committee. For if the proposition of my hon. Friend be adopted, the House will be obliged to take means to appoint these assessors in conformity with the instruction to the committee, which would be very inconvenient, to say the least of it, if not unfair. Under these circumstances, I certainly should much rather my hon. Friend would not persist in calling for the opinion of the House on the question of assessors in the present form; but that he should frame clauses to that effect, and propose them for introduction in the Bill in committee, first having them printed, that the House may be enabled to come to a more clear decision on the subject. If he does that, we shall then go into committee with some distinct idea on the question. As I should be very sore y to vote for the proposition of my hon. Friend as it now stands, or to assent to the instruction he proposes in its present form, I hope, therefore, that he will not hesitate to withdraw it.
 Mr. C. Buller  certainly was not aware of all the objections which the ingenuity of the right hon. Baronet would raise against his proposition. He now perceived that the House must have the whole details of his plan before it prior to a satisfactory discussion of it. He was not sorry, however, that he had been the means of raising this preliminary debate. He trusted that the House would allow him to press the latter part of the amendment, otherwise he should feel himself under the unpleasant necessity of submitting the same proposition again. He begged, then, to move that the committee have power to provide for the establishment of a court of appeal from the revising barristers.
 Mr. C, Buller  thanked the hon. Baronet
 590
 Mr. C. Buller  said, he was almost at a loss to make out what the wish of the House was upon the present occasion. He was ready to consult the wishes of hon. Gentlemen as far as possible. With respect to the objection which had been thrown out by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, respecting the details of his proposition, he must say, that he certainly had not come down with the clauses prepared in his hand, but he could state their purport to the House, which he hoped would be sufficient. He was going on to state—when he was interrupted on a point of order, by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Pembroke—that in his opinion, there would be no use in altering the constitution of the committees by which election petitions were to be tried, so long as it was left to those committees to decide upon the legality of each individual vote concerned in the contested return, and to be found upon the poll. He thought that, constituted as political parties were in this country, and with the feelings which men must have, this was an authority which should not be intrusted to any set of men so interested in politics as Members of this House inevitably were. Whilst this power remained to the House, there were many cases, particularly where a large class of voters was concerned, in which the committee had the power of establishing which political party should have the ascendancy in the place concerned, and, as a necessary consequence, to a certain extent, who should be the Ministers of the Crown. This was holding out a premium and inducement to commit injustice, which he feared in most
 593 594 595 l. l. 596 597 598
 Mr. C. Buller  rose and said, Plat this was the time he believed for him to make the motion for an instruction to the committee, of which he had given notice. He did not know whether, in point of form, there could be any objection to his motion; but he hoped the House would allow him to state why he proposed his amendments in the shape of an instruction to the committee, and not as clauses of the bill. In the first place, when an amendment was proposed which went to make an important alteration, so as to give an entirely new character to the bill, he thought it ought to be proposed in some form in which it could be sufficiently discussed. He believed, according to the strict rule, that he could not bring the question before
 586
 Mr. C. Wood,  as one of the parties who had attended the Committee, wished to make one or two observations. He thought it quite plain, that no benefit could arise, unless the attendance of all selected Members was enforced. He thought Members should be made aware of the inconvenience and expense that parties incurred by their irregular attendance. He approved of the suggestion, that they should he required to give special answers, and that they should not only be served with the general circular, but a special invitation of attendance; so that, by the nature of their answers, the Committee might judge whether it would be proper to choose others. He wished to ask a question which was of very great importance to the parties. Was the irregularity of the proceedings fatal to the Committee on the bill? or would it revive again so as to be enabled
 572
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  apprehended that no new clauses could ever be introduced, for any one purpose or another, into a bill, until all the original clauses were gone through.
 Mr. Baines  said, he wished to ask his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, whether he were aware that, notwithstanding the passing of his act of the last Session of Parliament, abolishing imprisonment for debt, there were at present in the country gaols of this kingdom hundreds—he might say thousands—of poor debtors kept in confinement, owing to the necessity which existed for their sureties appearing personally to justify their bail in open court in London: and whether he had any objection to introduce into his bill, now before the House for amending the Imprisonment for Debt Act, a clause empowering the Insolvent Debtors' Court to appoint proper persons in the country, as commissioners, to take the recognizances of the sureties under such circumstances as would render the personal appearance of the bail in London unnecessary?
 Mr. F. Kelly  concurred in the suggestion of the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire, and it appeared to him that every object would be obtained by taking that course. He agreed too in the obser-
 592
 Sir George Sinclair  begged to call the attention of the house to an occurrence of some importance and difficulty which had happened that day in Committee on the Manchester and Leeds Railway Bill. Several Members, to whom the bill had been originally committed, finding it impossible to attend, the committee of selection had requested the
 570
 Sir H. Hardinge  concurred in thinking with his right hon. Friend who brought in the bill, that it was calculated to produce most beneficial and advantageous effects. The hon. Baronet who had just sat down had stated, that the working of the committees depended in a great degree on the mode in which the law of Parliament was declared. A great many of the questions before the committees were so difficult, that much of the obloquy which was thrown upon them arose more from the difficulties attending those questions than from any perversion of the members of the committees. The hon. Baronet had referred to the Hull committee as an illustration of the difficulties to which Members who served on committees were subjected, and said, that he himself, as chairman of that committee, had been exposed to obloquy, because they had decided against Mr. Wilberforce's qualification, which had been a subject very difficult to decide upon. He fully agreed with the hon. Baronet as to the difficulty of the point, but be should say, that the majority of that committee had no doubt as to the qualification of Mr. Wilberforce, the only doubt being as to the freehold nature of the property. The hon. Baronet complained that he had been exposed to obloquy in consequence of representations which appeared in the public papers with respect to him as chairman of that committee, which attacks stated, that the hon. Baronet had been in communication with the agent for the petitioners; and he complained of having suffered much from those attacks. The hon. Baronet had thought it necessary to enter into a defence of himself against those attacks, and to state, that he never had spoken to the agent for
 579 580 gravamen 581
 Mr. Rich  adverted to the amendment he proposed to move in the event of Mr. C. Buller's suggestion being adopted by the House. He proposed to have three assessors, to whom all disputed questions before election committees, should be submitted in writing; that the assessors should give a distinct opinion thereupon separately or unanimously, also in writing; that the opinion so received, should be sent back to the chairman of the committee; that the chairman should read it publicly; that it
 605
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that the great objection to the plan of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) was, that he had taken no means to secure uniformity of decisions. When the right hon. Baronet talked of seven or eight election committees, sitting at the same time, he forgot how much uniformity of decision would tend to diminish the number of such committees. He thought that his hon. Friend (Mr. C. Buller) in making the Court of Appeal and the Court of Assessors consist of the same individuals, was adopting a very obvious and reasonable
 606
 Mr. Warburton  said, that it appeared to him that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Pembroke had given the very reason why it was necessary to move this instruction. The right hon. Baronet said, that the object of forming a court of appeal from the revising barristers was foreign to the title of the bill. Why, that was the very reason why the instruction was necessary. If it were germane to the title of the bill the instruction would not be necessary, but because it was foreign to the bill it was necessary.
 The Speaker  said, that no rule of the House was more clear, and none which it was so important for many considerations that they should rigidly adhere to, as that what they could do in committee the House
 588
 The Speaker  observed, that the hon. Member could not take this course until the amendment of which the hon. Member for Worcester had given notice was disposed of.
 Mr. E. Tennent  said, that as he had been directly alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, he was anxious to offer the earliest reply to his observations. He had felt on the occasion of the late Committee which had sat upon his election, the annoyance which any Gentleman must feel of having his private
 613 l., 1. l., l. l., l.
 Mr. Childers  was not in the habit of frequently addressing the House, and, therefore, he trusted that he should meet with some indulgence while he offered a few observations for its consideration. He should feel himself obliged to divide against the motion of the hon. and learned
 599
 Mr. Wilson Patten  was of opinion, that the plan of intimation to selected Members was defective. He thought the clerk, in sending the intimations, should ask specially whether Members would or would not attend; and, if they did not get an affirmative answer, then others would be selected. In this instance, fifty or sixty witnesses were in attendance, who would be detained till next week at great expense to the parties.
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion that the House was exercising its authority in this matter in an unjustifiable manner. He would only at present beg that time should be allowed for the legislature of Jamaica to know the course the Government was pursuing.
 Mr. Bernal  said, he thought that his hon. and learned Friend could not pursue any other course on the present occasion; for, with due deference to the House, he submitted that the proposition which his hon. and learned Friend had in view could not be entertained in committee upon this bill, entitled as it was, without the sanction of a previous instruction from the House.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that the Gentlemen selected on the present occasion, had been chosen for the same purpose, and in the same manner, as was usual in the practice of the House. A letter was sent to each Member, communicating that he had been selected to serve, and announcing the hour at which the Committee was to meet. On the present occasion, no answer had been sent by any of the Members to whom
 571
 Mr. Greene  seconded the motion. He perfectly agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard in thinking that something of this description was absolutely necessary, because everybody who had ever sat upon an election committee must recollect the feeling of pain with which he had found himself called upon to decide a point of law, he himself knowing nothing whatever of law. It had been his fortune, he supposed, because committees were struck upon the principle of knocking the brains out, to be called upon to serve upon election committees, and he had felt the difficulty of deciding upon a point of law so strongly, that he had gone to his attorney, had a case stated for counsel's opinion, and had a consultation that night, in order to know what was the proper course to adopt. He did, in fact, what he would have done in his own private business—he got the best opinion he could, in order to guide his judgment. In one of these cases there was a difference of opinion between the counsel, and very eminent counsel the men were who were consulted. He was, therefore, convinced that it was extremely desirable to devise some means by which the law might be made definite and certain. The only way in which that could be done was by the decision of a court of justice. At present, with respect to all the legal questions which had arisen upon the construction of the Reform Bill, there was no rule by which a committee could decide, because the decision of committee A was as good as the decision of committee B, for aught he knew, and they were directly at variance. He believed that if they had the same assessors constantly sitting, although they might not be of the very highest rank in the profession, something like uniformity of decision would be secured, and under these circumstances he begged leave to second the motion.
 Sir G. Clerk  recommended that the hon. and learned Member should introduce in committee the simple point of the appointment of assessors, which required no previous instruction from the House; and then, if his proposition were therein agreed to, subsequently move that the bill be recommitted for the purpose of forming those assessors into a court of appeal. It appeared to him, however, that there was a more natural connection between his amendment and the bill for the registration of electors, which was in the hands of the noble Lord opposite, and was not likely to be proceeded with for some time. He thought it better that the hon. Member should consider the parts of his amendment separately.
 Mr. M. Philips  said, that a similar instance occurred in a committee a few days since, where four Members conceiving that the committee were only to meet and adjourn, had not thought necessary to attend. They offered themselves at the next meeting; but they were excluded, in consequence of not having been present to sign the declaration when the chairman was appointed. It was necessary that some definite rule should be laid down to avoid these occurrences in future.
 Sir J. Graham  rose to order. If there was one rule better established than another it was this, that in no case could an instruction to a committee be moved to do a thing which it was competent to the committee to do without an instruction. As he understood the motion of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard, it was to introduce clauses in committee which would enable the House to appoint assessors, and a tribunal of appeal. If the motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman was strictly limited to that object, he conceived that there was nothing in the motion so worded that it was not competent for the committee to do without an instruction. In that case, therefore, it was clearly irregular to move an instruction. The only doubt arose from the additional object stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman—namely, that if the committee appointed assessors, they were to form a tribunal of appeal from the revising barristers. He concaved this was not necessary, and he
 587
 Sir J. Graham  was glad to find the noble Lord took such a different and desirable view of the question from his colleagues on his right and left. He was the more gratified with the view taken by the noble Lord, as it would infallibly tend to the safe and effective transaction of the business on hand. If the forms of the House had been strictly adhered to in the onset of that debate, all the discussion which had ensued, would have been avoided. It was competent to the hon. Member for Liskeard to move clauses appointing these assessors in the committee; but it was also necessary that he should detail his whole plan in doing so. Not to have done this, was the defect of the hon. Member's present proposition. He rejoiced that the high authority of the noble Lord opposite, had been added to that of the Speaker on the question at issue; and he trusted, that the conjunct opposition they gave it, would prove a salutary lesson to the House in regard to the necessity of maintaining all existing forms in its proceedings.
 The Attorney-General  concurred in the view of the subject taken by the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire. The suggestion of the noble Lord met all difficulties, and the course he recommended was the best that could be suggested. He should be anxious to hear all the details, and should look with some anxiety to the appointment of a learned and independent lawyer, whose opinion would be respected by the committees of the House. He saw no objection to entertaining the question in the committee, and to having the hon. Member for Liskeard's proposition fully considered.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had some embarrassment in expressing any opinion, as he was unwilling in any way to interfere with any course the hon. Member might propose to take. However, he did not think it would be fair were he to conceal the objections which he entertained, and which he meant to offer to the proposal of the hon. Member. It was certainly his intention to ask the House not to decide on that proposal until they had before them the details with which the hon. Member meant to carry out his proposition. He would ask the hon. Member to tell them by what mode he meant to carry his intentions into effect. It would be difficult to decide until they had before them the particulars of the hon. and learned Member's plan. The hon. and learned Member should in the first instance give the House some explanation upon these three points, namely, how he proposed the assessors to be appointed—by what tenure they were to hold their office—and what were the distinct powers, with which they were to be invested. Without this information he (Sir Robert Peel) should decline, and he should ask the House to refuse to give a vote at all to prejudice them upon an abstract proposition, whether assessors should be appointed or not.
 Sir Robert Peel,  notwithstanding all that had been stated, still felt it advisable to adhere to the precept he had laid down at an early period of the evening, and should, therefore, confine his argument strictly to the question before the House. It might be exceedingly advisable to have
 600 601 602 603
 Sir Robert Peel : Were the facts the same?
 Sir Robert Peel  could not help thinking that there was frequently such a slight variation of facts as to leave it open to doubt whether the same law, though admitted in principle, would be exactly applicable. The slightest variation of facts, oftentimes altered the whole application of the law. Take the case of Mr. Wilberforce, in the instance of the Hull election last year. A question was raised as to the validity of that gentleman's qualification. Men of the highest integrity, conscienti-
 604
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to make a few observations on the principal speech by which this bill had been opposed—that of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. The bill proceeded on the assumption, that the great majority of the House was in favour of trying any experiment that presented a rational hope of success before parting with the jurisdiction over contested elections which they had so long possessed. That question, he thought, bad been disposed of the other night, when his noble Friend, having taken the sense of the House on the question whether they should abandon their jurisdiction or not, a decision in the negative had been passed by a majority of nearly three to one. The question then was, if the present jurisdiction were to be retained, whether it should be retained in its present form. He (Sir R. Peel) proposed to retain the present jurisdiction in the hands of the House, substituting the principle of selection for chance. The bill might be very defective in its provisions, but such frivolous objections as had been urged against it by the hon. and learned Gentleman it had never been his lot to hear. The first point noticeable in these objections was, that because you had not defined the law, therefore you must not improve the jurisdiction. But the question of jurisdiction was perfectly distinct from the question of law. Whether the law were allowed to continue in its present defective state or were improved, surely no one could doubt that the better the tribunal was which administered that perfect or imperfect law, the greater was the chance of justice. If he had proposed to amend the law and leave the jurisdiction as it was, the hon. and learned Gentleman would have been the first man to attack this course, and would certainly have argued against it with greater force than he had now done against his (Sir R. Peel's) proposal to improve the
 619 620 621 a priori 622 "I have no hesitation in giving it as my opinion, that the new system adopted by the House of Lords in the last Session, of referring opposed bills to a committee of five peers, has worked extremely well. The selections have been made with strict impartiality, and the committees have given great attention to the cases severally produced before them, and I think have dealt out substantial justice. I give this opinion deliberately and after full consideration, and I may add, that I do so notwithstanding the greater number of cases of this description in which I was concerned were decided against me." 623
 Sir Peel  begged to remind the Douse, before they entered into any discussion of the particular motion before them, that there were several propositions before the House. One was, the proposition under debate, namely, that the bill be referred to a select committee, and he must say, that that proposition had been supported in a speech which convinced him of the impropriety of sending a bill to a select committee. The effect of the proposition would, in fact, be to adjourn the question for six months. There was then a proposition for moving instructions to the committee for the purpose of appointing assessors, and establishing a court of appeal; and there was another proposition, that it should not go into a committee at all. Now, if all these were made matter for preliminary discussion previous to going into committee, they would make no advance that night. He thought it would be infinitely better, therefore, to debate each proposition separately, and so dispose of it. He suggested, that they had better refrain from discussing the general principles of the bill, and confine themselves
 584 585
 Sir R. Peel  moved the Order of the Day for going into Committee on the Trial of Controverted Elections Bill.
 Sir R. Peel  thought that the noble Lord had pursued rather an unusual course; for, in giving notice of his intention to postpone the bill, he had rather made a speech on the subject of the bill, directed against the amendment which he intended to bring forward. The noble Lord had placed him, therefore, in an embarrassing position, and he hoped he might be enabled to explain his views. It was not his intention to go into the subject at length; but he was particularly anxious to explain himself, as there had been some misconstruction with respect to the positions he had laid down. Some Gentlemen had understood him (he wondered how they could possibly have done so) to propose that the Imperial Parliament should repeal the Prisons Bill, which passed last Session. Now he had distinctly stated, that he thought the Imperial Parliament had a perfect right, and was bound to maintain the Prisons Bill. He certainly did state that, seeing the immense em-
 575
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  said, that it had been suggested that this bill would not be effective; and next, that it was out of time. It was impossible for any Parliamentary jurisdiction to be made perfect; but after the condemnation that had been passed on the present tribunals, it was their imperative duty to supply a remedy. It had been suggested, that the remedy for the defects of that system must be sought for, not in that House, but out of that House. Now, he considered it to be absolutely necessary, that the House should always preserve its jurisdiction over the elective franchise, by which it was itself constituted. That was an inheritance which they had received from their ancestors, somewhat impaired, but which it was their bounden duty to protect from further injury. When the hon. and learned Member for Dublin proposed, that the jurisdiction over election petitions should be fixed out of the House, he had forgotten his usual circumspection, and had not considered what sort of a tribunal he would be erecting in lieu of the present. How long was the jury to sit on that tribunal? How long were tradesmen to be dragged from their ordinary avocations to act on such a jury? How were other causes to be disposed of in Westminster-hall whilst the election petitions were under consideration? Was he prepared to submit the witnesses in support of election petitions to all the rules of evidence at common law, and to neglect all the Parliamentary law on that point? One good objection to any law was enough; and the objection to the hon. and learned Member's proposed law only was, that in operation it would be found impossible. He admitted, that it was possible to bring persons paid for such a duty into the House to decide on these questions; but, he believed, that they had as much intelligence and integrity in that House as could be found out of it, and
 616 617
 Sir Walter James  concurred in the propriety of the Bill, though he thought, that it might be extended so as to include the decisions on the rejection of the lists from imperfect headings, as had occurred in the Hull case, and to regulate the order in which the allegations in a petition, especially with reference to bribery, should be
 614
 Viscount Howick  said, he merely rose to express his concurrence in what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. He certainly thought that they had better not enter upon the discussion of the general principle of the bill in that stage, but that that discussion should be postponed until they saw what the bill would really be. They had already had a discussion upon the general question whether they would retain the jurisdiction in the House or not, and the House had determined upon retaining the jurisdiction by a majority of three to one. As to the amendment of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Liskeard, he thought that when the proper time arrived that that amendment ought to be engrafted on the bill.
 Viscount Howick  said, that before he noticed the question of the right hon. Baronet he must take the liberty of observing, that the appointment of a court of appeal was necessarily and inevitably connected with the question of assessors, because he conceived that the House would never consent to the appointment of three Gentlemen with permanent salaries as assessors, if they did the mere duty of assessors in election committees; but if that duty were coupled with other duties which were extremely important, closely connected with their other duties, and which could be most advantageously discharged by such persons, namely, the duty of forming a court of appeal, deciding all disputed points of election law that came before the court of the registration barristers—if the two objects were combined, he did not despair of the House concurring in the appointment of assessors. It therefore appeared to him, that the question of a court of appeal was absolutely essential to the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard, and that he had a fair right to propose to incorporate it in this bill. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had himself stated, that he conceived clearly that the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard could not propose to introduce his proposition into the bill unless he was authorized to do so by an instruction to the committee; he thought, upon these grounds, that the instruction to the committee was a regular proceeding.
 Viscount Howick  said, that if the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for the appointment of assessors were to be engrafted upon the bill, it would be necessary to alter the words of some of the earlier clauses of the bill, and therefore he thought it would be better to discuss the question whether that proposition was to be entertained or not, before they went into committee.
 Viscount Mahon  would confine his observations to a very few words. He adhered to the opinion which he had expressed fully on a previous occasion, that the House never would dispense substantial justice on this trial of controverted
 618
 Colonel Wood  wished to ask the noble Lord opposite, as the proposed Bill would be likely to overturn the present system of prison discipline in this country, and as the intention of erecting a model prison in the metropolis, had been expressed, a thing which would be attended with some expense, whether he would not postpone it for a short time to give those Gentlemen who took an interest in the matter, time to consider it.
 The Solicitor-General  said, if a discretionary power were given to gaolers and other officers to enforce the system of separation as they pleased, it would be
 633
 Lord Granville  Somerset said there was much difficulty in understanding what was the real principle of the bill. By one clause one thing might be inferred, and by another clause another. He thought the clause under discussion should be amended before it was further discussed, and he could not subscribe to the doctrine of placing prisoners under solitary confinement before trial. This was most unjust.
 Colonel Wood  defended the superannuations to which the hon. Member for Kilkenny referred, and thought that the magistrates ought to have the power of rewarding long and faithful services, which this clause intended to place in their hands.
 Captain Wood  said, that as they were about to adopt a new system, it was most important that they should obtain the ser-
 637
 Mr. O'Connell  supported the clause, and thought the economy of his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, on this occasion was, a mistaken economy.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he must move, that the Chairman should report progress, and ask leave to sit again, in order that this question might be discussed at an earlier hour of the night. He did not think the opposition of the hon. Gentleman opposite to the clause even decent.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  said, that as the rule had been violated in Ireland, he saw
 639
 Colonel Davies  inferred, that the noble Lord had confounded separate confinement and solitary confinement together. The first prevented contamination before trial; the other was absolute punishment for the offence for which the prisoner had been found guilty.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that last year the House bad affirmed the very principle now in dispute, for it was included in the Scotch Prison Bill passed last Session, and if the House now decided against this clause, they would oppose this year what they affirmed last. It was of great importance as a step towards the improvement of prisoners, and the noble Lord was quite right to divide the House upon it. They could do nothing towards improving prisoners unless they had power to separate them as well before as after trial, and if he (Mr. Fox Maule) had a choice between the two, he would rather prefer the power to separate before trial.
 Mr. F. Maule  expressed a hope that the hon. Member for Kilkenny would not press his motion.
 Lord G. Somerset  moved the third reading of the Rhymney Iron Company's Bill.
 Lord G. Somerset  understood by what had fallen from the hon. Member, that he wished to have the third reading of the Bill postponed. The hon. Member had spoken of some such clause as that which he had now proposed when the report was ordered to be brought up, but he trusted the House would not entertain it at this stage. The Bill provided the means of church worship for 8,000 persons. What were the facts? The company had 10,000 shares, of which the holders of 9,985 agreed to this Bill; so that there were only fifteen shareholders out of the whole body, who could be supposed as in any way objecting to the passing of the Bill. It was a fact, which reflected much credit upon the shareholders, and there was Dissenters and Roman Catholics among their number, all approving of the object which the Bill went to accomplish; and he did not think that the opinions of one or two individual proprietors were to be of so weighty a nature as to induce the House to pause about the propriety of proceeding to pass it into a law. In regard to the clause which the hon. Member wished to introduce, it was enough to mention that it was not competent, because notice of his
 627
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that if be were called upon to affirm or negative the simple question of principle, he must vote against the present clause; but at the same time he urged the noble Lord as he intended to amend the wording of the clause, to postpone the division till the amended clause was before the House.
 Lord John Russell  moved the Order of the Day for going into Committee on the Prisons' Bill.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that as the matter had already been discussed, he did not think it could now occupy any great length of time, and therefore, he hoped the Committee would proceed with the bill.
 Lord John Russell  said, that it was his intention to propose to the House a vote for the erection of a model prison; but that ought not to prevent the House allowing the proper authorities to consent in any particular instance to separate confinement. He doubted, however, whether for each prison power should be given to the magistrates to build separate cells; not from any fear of the final progression of the amended system of prison discipline, but from an alarm lest any authority having power to build separate cells, should erect close and inefficient cells, and that the evils arising from such cells would be attributed to the separate confinement. He would take the division on the first words, so as to affirm the principle of separate confinement; and he would amend the clause afterwards, so as to insert all proper guards.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that in estimating
 632
 Lord J. Russell  said, he should be happy to correct any defects in the Bill which might be pointed out; but he thought that some further legislation, such as that included in the Bill, ought to take place. He wished that such justices as desired to establish a system which he as Secretary of State, and which they believed to be best, should not be prohibited by law from so doing. Now, the effect of the present law, as to classification and other points, was, totally to prevent the best plan from being adopted. It was to remove this evil that the he had introduced this measure.
 Lord John Russell  said, that a system of emigration had been recommended by the committee which sat on this question last year, and many benevolent individuals had recommended that asylums should be provided for offenders when they were discharged from prison. He knew that there were many evils resulting from prisoners being discharged at once from prison, as they had no means of procuring employment, and were, therefore, generally driven to the same course of life as before their being confined; but if the system suggested were adopted to the extent which had been recommended, it required some consideration to make it equally as severe a punishment to prisoners as they now suffered from having lost the confidence of the world, and so
 629
 Lord John Russell  would content himself with stating that this subject had been already sufficiently discussed in the debate upon the Uniformity of Prisons Discipline Act. He could see no reason on this occasion to depart from the principle which on that occasion swayed the decision of the House, which was in favour of a perfect conformity in the mode of treatment of prisoners in all prisons without exception.—Clause agreed to.
 Lord Teignmouth  was opposed to the precedent which had been adopted in Ireland, and therefore should resist its being followed in this country.
 Mr. Hawes  said, the great object of legislation on the subject of imprisonment was, to prevent the prisoner from being made worse during the period of his confinement. With that object in view, the old Gaol Act provided fur a system of classification, and Howard and others recommended that prisoners should be separately confined. In regard to the separate system, the report of the Inspectors of Prisons said, that no case of illness had conic under their notice attributable to that system, nor any instance of a prisoner having been made worse. The reports of the French and Prussian corn-missions had been to the same effect, and the Commissioners had unanimously recommended the adoption of separate confinement. No instance, he contended, could be furnished of illness or deterioration in the morals of the prisoners resulting from the separate system, although he was willing to admit that in America, under the silent system, both the minds and bodies of the prisoners had sunk. But
 631
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down had taken his statement relative to the Philadelphia Penitentiary from the report of the Society for the Improvement of Prison Discipline, and not from the report of the official board.
 Mr. Baines  was very reluctant to divide the House against the third reading. He would suggest to the noble Lord, that the further progress might be postponed for a few days, to give time for arrangement. He wished to know whether the large number of assents mentioned by the noble Lord, were within his own knowledge, or merely conjecture? As the noble Lord seemed determined to press the third reading, he had no alternative but to divide the House, as the principle involved by the Bill was important to joint stock companies generally and the country.
 Mr. Baines  considered the object of the Bill a laudable one, as it was to afford the means of church accommodation to the men employed at the works. But the objection he had to the third reading was, that the Bill proposed to take away and appropriate funds for the building and endowment of a church that had been subscribed for another purpose. If such a principle were once sanctioned by Parliament, he did not see where it was to stop. If called upon to divert funds to endow and build a church this year, they might be taken for a chapel next, and perhaps for a theatre, because in all these cases it might be said, that those buildings would afford accommodation to the parties who required it. What he particularly insisted upon, was, that a clause should be introduced to protect those who objected to this mode of employing their money without their consent, and which had never been contemplated by them when they gave their subscriptions.
 Mr. Darby  objected to so great a discretionary power being given to the magistrates as that of extending solitary confinement during the whole of the period of imprisonment of the prisoner. The hon. Member moved that the first part of the clause down to the word imprisonment be left out.
 Mr. Barneby  objected to separate confinement before trial, and suggested, that before the system should be generally adopted, it should be fully tried in a model prison, provided with a proper number of cells.
 Mr Briscoe  was not prepared to consent to the clause as it stood, because it gave an unlimited power of separate confinement for any time during sentence. He doubted whether the health did not suffer by separate confinement, if prolonged beyond two years, or perhaps beyond one year; and he therefore suggested a limitation of the power to the latter period. Fourteen cases of insanity had actually occurred in the very prison from which they were about to take this system; and he thought, therefore, that they should pause till they had better evidence, that the health did not suffer. A sentence of one year under the amended system would be equal to two or three years
 634
 Mr. Hume  objected to the clause on the ground that the principle of allowing superannuations to public servants, was a bad one. He wished the public servants to be properly paid, and then that they should make that provision for their old age out of their incomes which other parties were obliged to do out of their earnings. This clause would give the magistrate the power of creating pension lists, and as he feared it might lead to jobbing, it not to a wasteful expenditure of the county funds, he must strongly object to it. A pension of 400 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  agreed with the noble Lord that to secure to either young or old persons, upon their enlargement upon the completion of their periods of imprisonment under sentence, any certain means of employment, would, strictly speaking, have the effect of holding out an inducement to crime and to criminals upon their enlargement. It was true, that in nine out of ten cases those unhappy persons had recourse to their old practices upon their enlargement. To prevent this, and their association anew with their former companions, it might be worth while to devise, in committee, means for the subsistence for, perhaps, a few weeks, of such as were desirous of turning their backs altogether upon temptation, by emigrating to the colonies.
 Mr. Estcourt  objected to giving an unlimited power to inflict solitary confinement on prisoners, and recommended the withdrawal of the clause, which appeared to have been hastily drawn up, and that the noble Lord would bring in some distinct measure on the subject.
 Mr. Gibson  wished to know, whether it was the intention of the Government to provide some asylum for offenders after they had been discharged, and previous to emigration, for which he understood it was intended to afford every facility?
 Mr. Blackstone  objected to the appointment of Roman Catholic priests to the gaols, on the ground, that such a course would operate injuriously to the Established Church. The hon. Member moved the rejection of the clause.
 Mr. W. Evans  hoped the clause would not be withdrawn.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  suggested the propriety of exempting the prisons of 13ridewell in the City, and of the House of Occupation, in St. George's-fields, which were endowed by bequests under particular regulations and limitations by the donors.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  doubted whether it would be prudent to adopt at once the separate system, and carry it out so extensively as was proposed by the bill.
 Sir G. H. Smyth  was also very strongly opposed to the clause. Two years' solitary confinement was more than the human constitution could bear.
 Sir G. Smyth  said, that the present system was a very severe one. The prisoners were confined in their cells during the night, and were not permitted to have any intercourse. In the morning they were placed upon the treadmill, when silence was enforced, and in the afternoon again returned to their cells, no communication being permitted between them even at the hours when they got their meals. Surely such a system was already sufficiently severe.
 Sir H. Verney  hoped the noble Lord would not make any difference. The object of the clause was to prevent the gaol being a place of corruption to prisoners. The separate system ought to be applied to the whole time the prisoners were confined in the gaol, or not at all.
 Mr. Pakington  understood, then, that there was no difference to be made before or after trial.
 Mr. Pakington  said, the report he had alluded to was founded on the Penitentiary returns.
 Mr. Pakington  was strongly indisposed to give any one such extensive powers as this clause would confer. He held in his hand a report relative to the Philadelphia Penitentiary, from which it appeared that the mortality in that prison was greater than in any other of the prisons in the United States, and in that prison the separate system was in operation. Madness also had prevailed amongst the prisoners to a frightful extent, and the morals of the persons confined did not, notwithstanding the severe punishment to which they were subjected, appear to have been improved in a greater degree than in the other gaols. He sincerely hoped he should never see such a system adopted in England, for, in his opinion, there was no distinction between the separate and silent systems. They were in reality the same, and he could not therefore give his consent to the clause under consideration, by which it was provided, that any prisoner may be separately confined during the whole or any part of the period of his imprisonment.
 Lord Stanley  had, he said, to ask a question of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department. He had in his hand an extract of the proceedings of the committee of the Privy Council, for superintending the application of sums of money granted by Parliament for the purpose of promoting education. This purported to be an extract, from the minutes of the Council. He presumed that the noble Lord would have no objection to lay before the House a copy of the Order in Council by which the committee was constituted. He wished to ask the noble Lord a series of questions:—First, was it intended that the committee of the Privy Council should have the disposal of sums to be applied for hereafter to Parliament, or of sums appropriated by Parliament before the scheme of the noble Lord was adopted? Next, when it would be necessary for the noble Lord—and he concluded it would be so necessary—to ask, in the course of the present Session, for a vote of Parliament to carry the scheme into operation? But, as in the third case the estimate would be brought forward among the mis-
 681
 Lord Stanley  felt no difficulty as to the first portion of what the noble Lord had just stated; but as to the last part of his explanation, he wished to know at what period of the Session the noble Lord meant to bring forward the estimate on
 682
 Dr. Nichol  wished to know, whether the hon. Member had any objection to add the name of the judge that passed sentence?
 Sir G. Strickland  expressed his regret that the bill for the abolition of the Ecclesiastical Courts and Church-rates had not been passed. He begged distinctly to say, that he thought no charge of injustice was attributable to the judges of these courts in any of their proceedings, for they were bound to administer the law as they found it, and not otherwise. As a magistrate himself, a great many cases of severe hardship had come before him from time to time, arising out of these jurisdictions; and he therefore hoped that the Legislature would interfere to prevent their recurrence.
 Sir J. Tyrrell  could not assent to all that had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny, but he cordially assented to the remark, that that hon. Member did not like subscriptions. He was sorry that he would not support the man with his purse as well as his tongue. A large subscription had already been made for the man, and he was neither poor nor ignorant.
 Mr. O'Connell,  who, having said that this was far too important a subject to be discussed in so thin a House, moved that it be counted, and forty Members not being present, it adjourned.
 Mr. F. Maule  was in favour of the suspension of the standing orders, upon the ground that it was impossible to leave the police of the City of London in the state in which it had been previously, or in the altered state in which it was at present, without some legal enactment.
 Lord John Russell  replied, that he certainly did not mean to postpone his resolution to the end of the Session. He hoped to be able to bring it forward in the course of six weeks.
 Lord John Russell,  in reply to the first question proposed to him by the noble Lord, had to state, that he did receive an intimation of the meeting in Smithfield, and he had been consulted by the Lord Mayor, so as to prevent anything illegal taking place, and to preserve the public peace. He had, while sitting in that House, at ten o'clock, received the information from the Lord Mayor that the meeting had separated; but he had not laid before him any account of the speeches which had been delivered. There had, he must say, in reply to the next question, been reports received for a considerable time with respect to arming in parts of the country, and especially in Lancashire; and a correspondence had in consequence been carried on by him with the civil and military authorities on that subject.
 Lord J. Russell,  in reply to the noble Lord, said, first, that there was no objection to the production of the Order in Council appointing the committee. It went no further than to declare certain officers of State as a committee of the Privy Council for the purposes of education. With respect to the question as to the funds hitherto voted, his answer would be, that there was to be no disposal of the funds at the discretion of the committee except in the manner in which those votes were applied; namely, that a certain portion should be given to the National Society, and a certain portion to the Foreign Schools, for the purpose of building and establishing normal schools. With respect to the disposition of any other sums of money, a vote would be required from Parliament before the committee would feel themselves at liberty to proceed with any further arrangement. As to the last question which had been asked by the noble Lord, he must say, that it was decidedly the intention of the Government to propose a separate estimate, containing no other item, except that which was to refer to sums to be granted for the purposes of education. On a future day notice would be given, that the House should resolve itself into a committee on that estimate alone, taking that sum, and no other, as a part of the miscellaneous estimates, or at all events taking that as the first question.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that he wished to call the especial attention of the House to the petition which had just been presented by the hon. Baronet, the Member for London, for the suspension of the standing orders, He wished to state and expose the allegations in the petitions, which he should show were not consistent with strict truth. If he should be able to convince the House that the Corporation of the City of London had asked the House to interfere upon grounds which were not tenable, nor consistent with veracity, he thought he should induce the House to pause before they agreed to the prayer of the petitioners.
 679 680
 Mr. Baines  said, he had no objection to that or any other amendment that should be deemed necessary.
 Mr. Baines  rose, and said he was about to bring under the consideration of the House, a case in which the liberty of the subject was deeply involved—the case of Mr. John Thorogood, an inhabitant of Chelmsford, who was confined in the gaol of that place for his refusal to pay Church-rates. He did not know that he could in any way better explain the subject he had to submit to the consideration of the House, than by stating shortly the particulars of the petition which had been presented to that House some time ago. That petition he had had the honour to present on the 28th of February, and in it it was stated that the petitioner had for
 685 s. d. 686 687 688 689 690 a laugh Goulburn 691 692
 Mr. G. W. Wood  moved, pursuant to instructions given to him as chairman of the select
 699
 Mr. G. H. Vernon  said, that he must admit that the speech of the hon. Member who had last spoken, had been characterised by a much better spirit than that of the hon. Member who preceded him. With respect to the hon. Member for Leeds, although he commenced his speech by laying claim to a great deal of good temper in the manner he dealt with the subject, yet he must say there appeared to him to be a great deal of asperity, mixed up with somewhat of the spirit of injustice, in what fell from him. The hon. Member stated, that the petitioner averred that he could not expect to get justice at the hands of the Ecclesiastical Court. But every one who knew the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, who presided in that court, would, he was sure, treat such a remark with the contempt it deserved. The hon. Member appeared to labour under a great deal of ignorance as to what were the functions and duties of judges. He appeared entirely to forget that they were not the parties to bring on cases, but to decide upon all cases brought before them by others. When the hon. Member said, that the judges did not dare to face the large communities, but only the smaller ones, and that they did not dare to deal equally with the rich and the poor, he was sure that the hon. Member could find nothing in this or any other case to warrant such insinuations. If the hon. Member could show him any case which had been brought before the Ecclesiastical Courts in which justice had been administered differently to the rich and the poor, then, indeed, he should be ready to give every attention to the charge. He would not enter upon the general subject of church-rates at present, when there was every probability of the House being counted out; but he would only ask the hon. Member when a man had defied the authority of a judge before whom he was cited, how could that judge act otherwise than defend and vindicate the authority of the law? The hon. Member had given the House a great variety of pathetic details of this case, as to the time of year at which the petitioner was taken to prison, the number of hours he was kept without seeing his friends, &c.; but he did not think the House, looking to the merits of the case, had been much moved from its propriety by these statements. He must
 696
 Mr. Goulburn  thanked the hon. Gentle-
 698
 Mr. Warburton  was proceeding to observe, that no good reasons had been alleged in support of this motion, when he was interrupted by
 Mr. Freshfield  could not allow the observations and question of the hon. Member for Leicester to be put to a Member of the Committee, asking them to explain what could possibly be the meaning of the clause now introduced into this bill, and expressing some doubt as to the object of that clause, without giving an answer to that question. The Southampton Railway Bill and other bills were before Parliament. Parliament was aware that much inconvenience was likely to arise, if railways were not put under some reasonable regulations. That was distinctly stated by the President of the Board of Trade, when he moved for the
 684
 Mr. Loch  said, that the objection of the hon. Member was somewhat late. The clause appeared to him to be perfectly intelligible, and the Committee had taken great pains before bringing it before the House.
 Mr. Loch  moved the insertion of the clause recommended by the Railway Committee, viz., "And be it further enacted, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed or construed to exempt the railway by this or the said recited acts authorised to be made, from the provisions of any general act relating to railways which may pass during the present or any future Session of Parliament."
 Dr. Nicholl  said, that the case which was stated in this petition had come before one of the most learned individuals in the country, and one as little inclined to do wrong as any person in the country. The hon. Member had made it a charge against the judges of the Ecclesiastical Courts, that they did not seek out and punish those who violated the canons. Why, the hon. Member might just as well go to the statute-book and say, that the judges in our Temporal Courts were responsible for not calling into operation all the statutes that were to be found there. With respect to the case in question, he regretted that power had not been given to the Ecclesiastical Courts to enforce their sentences by distress. In the case of Quakers, the remedy was given by a distress of goods. With respect to the Ecclesiastical Courts, bills had been previously brought forward by the administrations of Earl Grey, of Sir R. Peel, and of Lord Melbourne, for their amendment; and these bills had failed, not from any unwillingness on the part of the Church to consent to them, but from the opposition of the various local interests connected with the inferior courts. With respect to the relief prayed by the petitioner, it could be got out of the House. He could be brought before the Court of Queen's Bench, and if any grounds could be shewn for it, that Court would order his discharge.
 Mr. Hume  was glad to hear the hon. and learned Member opposite express a wish that these courts should be abolished. He would only refer to the treatment of the Church-rate victims at Truro the other day, when a splendid procession, and an elegant dinner awaited them on their liberation from prison, to show the House the impolicy of persevering in the present system. It appeared to him a pitiful course of proceeding to oppress the poor in order to support a Church which ought to be rich enough to support itself. It was surely making it out a beggarly religion that could not support itself without oppressing the people. How could they put up a pretence to civil and religious liberty if people were obliged to pay for other people's clergymen, as well as their own? It was intimated that Mr. Thorogood had brought this misfortune upon himself. So he had; and for so doing, in his opinion, he had much merit. Was not Hampden held in veneration for resisting an oppressive tax? He held in his hand a list of persecutions (for so he would call them), which had taken place in Birmingham. Men for small sums had goods to a large amount taken out of their shops, and sold for a few shillings. Why, it was nothing less than robbery—it was a robbery against conscience. Hon. Members would not deny, that the pockets of the people were picked by law every day. The system was one which no enlightened community ought to suffer to exist any longer. It was inconsistent with Christian principle to punish a man for believing according to the dictates of his conscience. He really thought, that if the bishops and prebends of the Church, rich as it was, were to contribute towards a fund for this purpose, this odious exaction, amounting to about 240,000 l., Member:
 Sir Matthew Wood  presented several petitions from various quarters of the city, in favour of the City of London Police Bill. He hoped he should receive the indulgence of the House while he expressed the humble expectations of the petitioners, and his own, that the bill which the Corporation of London wished to introduce for the improvement of the city police
 678
 Mr. T. Attwood  thought the noble Lord had acted very discreetly.
 Mr. Bramston  should not oppose the motion. Being resident in the neighbourhood in which the transaction had occurred, he was anxious it should have every publicity. He hoped, that the unfortunate gentleman, when satisfied by the statement of his case and the production of his papers in the House of Commons, would purge his contempt, and regain his liberty. With regard to the statement which had been made that his wife had been refused admission to the prison, he could state that on the only occasion on which application was made to the visiting magistrate, permission was granted. In his opinion, the more the matter was sifted the more clearly it would be proved that the magistrates had merely done their duty.
 Mr. Easthope  observed, that he should be happy to know what was the particular object of the clause which was proposed by the Railways' Committees to be inserted in all the railway bills now passing through Parliament. The clause, in his opinion, required explanation; because he confessed, that though he had very attentively considered it, and this, too, with the desire of understanding it, he could not comprehend it. He lamented, exceedingly, that the chairman of the Committee was not present; for he himself had never yet been able to understand the precise object of the Committee. He was utterly unable to divine why such a clause should be inserted in any railway bill. Did those who proposed it suppose, that any railway bill had given, or could give to the directors the power of opposing the authority of Parliament? He hoped, that some Member of the Committee would enlighten him as to the true meaning of the clause, for he felt a great desire to understand it.
 Mr. Easthope  begged, in explanation, to be allowed to say that he really did not know, at the time he mentioned the subject, the particular railway to which the clause was proposed to be added. His only object was to understand, before it was introduced, what were its real meaning and effect. Of these he was still ignorant.
 Mr. Easthope  said, in rising to second the proposal of his hon. Friend, it was not his intention to make any accusation against the clergy, or to mix up anything in the discussion of an acrimonious or offensive nature. If there was any subject that should be approached in the opposite feeling, he thought this was that one. He would not believe but that every friend of the Church—at least every real friend of the Church—must feel, that it was high time that some provision should be made to prevent the recurrence of cases of this sort. He could not imagine it possible,
 693 694 "There were some poor Dissenters at the Broadway in Worcester, who had demurred to the payment of Easter dues, and proceedings had been taken against them in the spiritual court by a gentleman whose name he (Mr. Easthope) would not mention; but who was a clergyman. One poor man, named Israel Brown, having a wife and six children, had been cited for three years' dues, at the rate of 4 d. l. s. 695
 Viscount Dungannon  had a question to ask of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department. He wished to know whether the noble Lord had received any intelligence of a meeting which had been held a few days since by a body of persons styling themselves Chartists, and at which meeting the most seditious and inflammatory language had been used. He also wished to know if the noble Lord had been made aware that persons were arming in different parts of the country; and if they were, he wished to ask if any steps were about to be taken by the noble Lord in consequence of such proceedings?
 The Solicitor General  was sorry for the course that had been taken by the opponents of the bill. He had stated, that he intended to give it his most decided opposition, and to oppose it in every possible mode; but by that he meant according to every mode that was known in the usages of that House. He was afraid that if this course of opposition were followed out it would create a sympathy in
 703
 Mr. S. O'Brien  did not approve of the principle that all bills of this nature should originate with the Government, which it was the tendency of the course adopted by the hon. Member for Bridport to establish, and he did not think it fair to deprive a private Member of the only opportunity which he had for advancing the progress of any measure which he had taken up. He should, therefore, vote against the motion for adjournment.
 Sir G. Strickland  would ask the hon. Member for Bridport, when he spoke about unpopularity, whether he thought it would be popular among their constituents to affirm that no business should be done on a Wednesday, for that was the tendency of the course pursued by the hon. Member? That course he deprecated in the strongest manner.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  wished to say one word. He was the last man who would dispute the right of any Member of that House to move an adjournment. It was for the Member moving to judge whether his motion was consistent with the general feeling of the House. With respect to the present case, he would refer the hon. Member for Bridport to a bill, in which the hon. Member took a great interest, and which was strongly opposed by a party in that House. That was the Anatomy Bill introduced by the hon. Member himself. If the opposition of the minority in that case had not been withdrawn, the bill, which was one conferring great benefits on the community, must have been withdrawn.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, as an appeal had been made to the can-dour of hon. Gentlemen, he must, for one, say he could not acquiesce in the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor General, because that would be to concede the whole principle of the bill.
 The Solicitor General  said, that as the Committee was now on the clause, he objected to fill up the blank with the term sixty years, as proposed by his hon. and learned Friend. The clause gave to authors the copyright for the term of their
 710
 Mr. W. Attwood  supported the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Reading. Dr. Johnson had thought that 100 years was a proper period for an author's copyright, and Mr. Say, another authority, held that the term ought to be for the author's life, and those of his wife and children. With the opinions of such men before him, he thought sixty years was not an unreasonable term, or an exorbitant concession to authors.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that his own proposition would be to insert the period of thirty-one, instead of sixty, years. It was possible that, if they decided upon so long a term of years as sixty, they might excite a certain degree of public feeling against the bill. He was not, however, so opposed to the term of sixty years as to seek, in consequence of its being retained, to defeat the bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that he entertained the strongest objection to this clause, on the ground that it interfered with vested rights belonging to the public. It might be justifiable to declare, that works hereafter to be published should have this extended protection, but he could not agree to the clause having a retrospective effect.
 Mr. Godson denied,  that there was anything like a vested interest in the matter. The whole question was, whether the present duration of copyright afforded an adequate reward to authors. He thought, that the present duration of copyright was sufficient, except in particular cases.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, that the objection of the hon. Member for Derby, drawn from the analogy of the steam engine and the printing press, did not at all apply to the present case. Those inventions had, by
 714
 The Solicitor-General,  in reference to what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, thought it rather too large an inference, that because the terms of existing patents for inventions might in some peculiar cases be extended, therefore the same favour should be granted to all unexpired copyrights whatever. That which might be termed an exception with regard to patents was proposed to be made a universal rule with regard to copyrights.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, if he mistook not, there was a large dinner, and the presentation of a piece of plate to an hon. Member of that House that evening, and the true cause of the opposition to the further progress of the bill might be, that hon. Members were much afraid of the soup and the fish being cold, or that the whole would be eaten up before they got there. He confessed it was no disappointment to him, for he for one did not intend to go. An invitation had been sent to him, as a friend of economy, hoping that he would attend the dinner.
 Mr. Cayley  understood that there was no question before the House.
 Mr. Strutt  said, that as far as he could trace the shadow of an argument in the learned Sergeant's speech, it went to show, that the public had no right whatever, and therefore he ought to propose a perpetual copyright. He was opposing his own bill. If the public had no right to that for which they had not worked, they had no right to the possession of the steam engine or the printing machine. He had felt anything but satisfied at the sneering manner in which the learned Sergeant had talked of the much injured public. He thought the interests of the public should not be laid aside, and protested against the tone assumed by the learned Member for Reading in stigmatising all those opposed to his views.
 Mr. F. Hodgson  rose to order. He believed the hon. Member had spoken on this question before.
 Mr. Darby  objected to the Committee going on to discuss a clause and the amendments upon it under the threat of the Member for Bridport, that if some compromise was not made he would persevere in the course he had pursued throughout the evening; in other words, that if his own proposition was not carried, he would still resist the sense of the House.
 Mr. Grote  said, that as it seemed improbable that any other night but the present could be given to the consideration of this measure, he should, though reluctantly, because he was opposed to the principle of the measure itself, vote against the adjournment.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he was aware that he was taking a very unpopular course, but the hon. Member for Reading could not complain of it, for before the Easter Holidays he had given him notice, that, if he persisted in fixing a Wednesday for the further proceedings in the bill, he would feel it to be his public duty to take the course he was then doing; he would persist in that course. He would, therefore move, that the further consideration of the question be adjourned till Friday next.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that when this bill was last under the consideration of the House, he gave the learned Mover due notice that he would oppose its further progress if brought forward on a Wednesday. Here was a bill in which the public took a paramount interest, and it was not fit that it should be brought forward on a night when Ministers were absent, and engagements prevented the attendance of hon. Members. The hon. Member for Limerick had postponed the consideration of an important measure, because he was aware that a number of the Irish Members would be necessarily absent. In a short time the benches would be deserted, till only from twenty to thirty Members would remain, and he must give his most strenuous opposition to the discussion of a bill of such importance to the public, which went to deprive them of a right and privilege they now possessed in a House of that nature,
 700 habeas corpus.
 Mr. Warburton  had given full notice to the hon. Member of the course he intended to follow, and if, notwithstanding that explanation, the hon. Member should still persist in proceeding, be must move that the House do now adjourn.
 Mr. Warburton  denied that he had held out any threat. He had merely said, that according as the blank was filled up so he should shape his course.
 Mr. Warburton  said he would give way, and object no further at present, if the hon. and learned Sergeant would fix a night (not a Wednesday), when an opportunity would be given of discussing the measure in a full House. As to the remark of the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln, that he (Mr. Warburton) was an expected guest at the dinner given on that day to his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny, he could assure him he was mistaken. He was not to be a guest at that dinner, and he would add, that he had determined on adopting his present course, before he had even heard of the dinner. 709
 Mr. Warburton  wished that and several other clauses to be postponed, and other minor clauses to be taken. He would then consent to go on with the bill.
 Mr. Warburton  felt satisfied, that the interests of the public had been completely lost sight of in this bill.
 Mr. Warburton  said, it seemed to be forgotten that any extension of the rights of authors was a robbery upon the public, and the opinion which had been quoted of Mr. Say was an opinion in support of absolute nonsense. The House ought to fix only on such a term of years as would prove a sufficient inducement for authors to write good works. Every year after that, was taken from the public, and would be a great encouragement to plagiarism; by ingenious devices they would have long extracts from works, or the words little altered, and probably not bettered. For the credit of authors themselves he thought they were not justified in filling up the blank with a long period.
 Mr. Warburton  said, if he could understand there was any likelihood of the amendment of the Solicitor General being carried, he should not object to it, for it would be a very small variation from the law as it now stood, and would be a mere accommodation to the executors or administrators of deceased authors. Such a compromise of the point he would not oppose if he were assured that the Friends by whom the hon. and learned Solicitor General was surrounded would agree to it; if not, he should persevere in his strenuous opposition to the progress of the bill.
 Mr. Warburton  repeated that he should not object to the short period proposed by the Solicitor General. That proposition might now be discussed, and a division taken upon it, but he reserved to himself the right when the blank was filled up to shape his course accordingly.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the course he pursued was perfectly in order. He had seen on many occasions repeated questions, succeeding one another alternately, on the motion for the adjournment of the House and for the adjournment of the question. It was competent for a Member, in any state of any debate, to move the adjournment of the House, and in any state of any debate to move the adjournment of the debate itself, provided the two successive motions were not the same. When a small lot of Members came down to that House to support a question when Ministers of the Crown were absent, it was far better not to consider it at all.
 Mr. Warburton : Then I move that this debate be now adjourned.
 Mr. Warburton  said, he believed that he could, if he pleased, move that the Speaker do leave the Chair that day six months.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the course which he should pursue was that with which he had thought it his duty to commence, to endeavour to prevent this bill being discussed on a Wednesday night. The motion he made was, that the chairman now report progress.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the motion that he had made was perfectly consistent with the usual forms of the House, that the further consideration of this question be adjourned. It was competent for any Member to move the adjournment.
 Mr. Warburton  was glad to find, that the noble Lord had furnished him with a precedent for the course he (Mr. Warburton) was now pursuing. In the case of the Registration of Electors' Bill, the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, arranged, that the discussion should not come on, except in a full House. He (Mr. Warburton) thought that what was good in that case, would also apply to the Copyright Bill.
 Mr. Warburton  was quite ready and willing to take on himself all responsibility. He objected to the clause in toto, and, therefore, would not raise any discussion as to the term to be inserted in the clause.
 The Speaker : The question is, that these words, "that I do now leave the Chair," stand part of the question. Having negatived the adjournment, it will stand thus, "That I now leave the Chair."
 The Speaker  said, no hon. Member could move an amendment, as the hon. Member wished to do, on what it had already been decided should stand part of the question.
 The Speaker  said, the House was the judge of its own proceedings. He could only say, that that House had come to two conclusions after debate. The first conclusion they had come to was, that they would not now adjourn; and then they had come to the conclusion, that the words, "that the Speaker do now leave the Chair," stand part of the motion. [Cries of "" Question.
 The Speaker  did not think that that question could be entertained. The House had, upon a division, affirmed that the words "that I do now leave the Chair," should stand part of the question, therefore he believed that those words must form part of any question put to the House.
 Mr. Milnes  said, that it was absurd to object to the clause as having an  ex post facto
 Mr. T. B. Hobhouse  contended, that if the principle of this  ex post facto
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  thought the hon. Member could hardly have heard his numerous addresses without knowing, that the claim set up by the public was entirely futile, and that they had no right at all. He contended, that publishers in London and Edinburgh, should not be permitted to send forth the works of that great man of whose services we had been deprived by a premature death, to the detriment of those whom be had left to our care. He would never arrogate to himself the title of Liberal at the expense of the good and the wise.
 Sergeant Talfourd  considered the invitation which had been given him by the hon. Member to consider this bill in Committee to-morrow, equivalent to an invitation never to consider it in Committee at all. The course pursued by the hon. Member appeared to him vexatious in the extreme. The bill was now, for the third time, before the House. Its principle had twice been affirmed and never denied by a vote of the House. It had at the same time been most amply discussed, and the majorities, by which it was affirmed, were considerable. It was too much to say, that Wednesday was the only night on which a measure of that importance ought not to be considered. What chance had an individual Member, not supported by Ministerial influence, to get a bill forward on any other night? The right hon. Baronet had just postponed the Committee on the Controverted Elections' Bill till to-morrow night, and what prospect had he to get this bill considered afterwards, as the bill of the right hon. Baronet would of course have precedence? It was rather a strange objection for some Members to complain of a small attendance of Members, seeing that they had philosophically discussed the expediency of reducing the present number of Members who had seats in that House. He should be deserting the interests of those who trusted to his exertions for obtaining justice to their rights if he agreed to the motion for postponement. The hon. Member might take one course, and he (Sergeant Talfourd) would adopt his own, and he trusted the House would support him in
 701
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  said, he charged the Member for Bridport with an abuse of the power vested in the Members of that House. When the second reading of the bill came on, he had been pressed to postpone it. He had not submitted to the threat of the hon. Member then held out, neither would he submit to his dictation now.
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  was glad to find that the hon. Member for Bridport
 711
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  said, that the course which the hon. Member for Bridport had taken was so objectionable, that he would not accept of any boon at his hands. The Committee was now upon the clause fixing the period of the term for the continuance of the copyright, a point which had already been fully discussed, and he, therefore, desired to accept of no favour from the hon. Member, to whom he left the responsibility of the course he had that night taken, nor would he do anything to avert from the hon. Member the judgment of that public whom he said he desired to serve.
 Mr. Wakley  would say a few words on the question, as he was anxious to expedite business. He must say, that he could not exactly understand the tactics that hon. Members would have them pursue in that House. He thought it a useful privilege, that Members should be able to postpone the business of the house, and he thought they could not find a more proper occasion for it than the present. He was most sincerely opposed to the principle and details of this bill. He, for one, was prepared to adopt any course which would enable him to prevent its further progress in that House. He had never failed to express his opposition to the bill. He believed it was fraught with more mischief than any other measure. He thought it better that they should have a special night for discussing bad measures. Generally speaking, the bills brought forward on a Wednesday night were of a very harmless nature; but this was so objectionable in its character, that he should continue to offer opposition to it to the latest hour of the night. He, for one, should not fail to oppose the bill, provided the hon. Gentleman pursued the course he had pointed out. He would conclude by moving, that the chairman do leave the chair.
 Mr. Wakley  seconded the motion, stating that as Lord John Russell had on a former occasion protested against the Bill, the House might have expected that this would have been made a Government question. At all events, it was proper that the opinions of the two great parties in that House should be heard, and as the noble Lord and the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had now left the House, and as hon. Members well knew that at seven o'clock they preferred dining to any question of however great national importance—[ "No "
 Viscount Dungannon  objected to the course pursued by the hon. Member. The arguments brought forward for the postponement of the consideration of the measure were perfectly contemptible. The hon. Member for Bridport would not go into the consideration of the bill, because her Majesty's Ministers were not in the House, and then because the leaders of the Oppo-
 708
 Viscount Howick  regretted, that the time of the House had been wasted for five hours in vexatious divisions—vexatious he must say, with all respect to the promoter of them—which had nothing to do with a discussion of the bill. He thought the bill should be considered more in reference to the public, than the authors. He objected to the bill in its present shape, on the ground, that it would create an unjust monopoly for authors, many of whom would be well provided by twenty-eight days' protection instead of twenty-eight years. He would admit, that under the present system, authors who had spent all their lives in the composition of perhaps a single valuable work might suffer great hardship. He should be happy to see the interests of such men secured; but, concurring in the objections of other hon. Members, he must oppose the clause now under consideration.
 Viscount Mahon  said, that when this became a vexatious opposition on the only night on which the bill could be brought forward in its present stage, he must seriously call upon the House to consider to what the course of the hon. Member for Bridport, if it were followed up, might ultimately lead. If hon. Members found that a bill might be satisfactorily resisted by a minority against a majority, as in this case, it was possible that the method might come to be tried by the minority of hon. Members on his (the Opposition) side of the House against the majority opposite. But the hon. Member for Bridport was called a practical man. Now, he would put it to the hon. Member to reflect whether the privilege which it appeared thus resided in a minority, might not be lost by a vexatious and intemperate use of it? Hon. Members formerly had a right, on presenting petitions, to make remarks at pleasure upon them. This was found to be inconvenient, and was consequently abolished. Hon. Members ought to take care lest the privilege they were now exercising should not be lost for the same reasons. He called on them not to furnish an irresistible argument for the total suppression of this right.
 Viscount Mahon  had understood the hon. Member in the directly opposite sense; and, if he had understood the hon. Member right, the discussion of the clause would be to very little purpose. If the hon. Member was determined to take any more vexatious divisions, it would be a waste of time to debate the clause.
 Sir S. Luskington,  in reply, said, that he was glad that his statement of the facts in this case had been received with approbation by the. House. At the same time he felt himself placed in a situation of considerable embarrassment. He had, in fact, nothing to reply to, and the question he had brought before the House was in the same state as if he had not opened his lips on it. He had got from his noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, the same assurances on this occasion which had been given to him in August, 1838. He regretted that when this matter occurred in 1835 it had not been taken up by Parliament. If it had been noticed in the same spirit which had been manifested by Parliament in the case of the Express Packet, there was no doubt that long before the present time it would have been brought to a satisfactory conclusion. The question, though one of importance in a pecuniary point of view to the parties concerned, did not derive its chief importance from that circumstance. The great question for the Government and for the House to consider was, whether the commander of a French vessel, by his own power and authority, could seize British vessels and imprison British subjects, with impunity. That was the question which should form the main subject for consideration. The pecuniary question was not unimportant; though owing to the high rank and great respectability of the merchants concerned, the loss sustained could be borne, yet to others in less affluent circumstances it might have brought utter ruin. Under the circumstances stated by his noble Friend, he felt that he ought not to press his motion at present, but if he should now refrain from urging the production of the papers it would be on two grounds. The first, that it was not usual with that House to call for the production of correspondence on a subject on which negotiations were still pending; and, secondly, his firm hope that now a more forcible appeal would be made by the Queen's Government to that of France, backed as it would be, not only by the strong approbation of the House of Commons, but also by the general feeling of the British
 734
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not wish to throw any difficulty in the way of the hon. Member's proposition. It was highly important that both Government and Parliament should have the best information that skill and science could give on this subject; but he wished it to be distinctly understood to what extent he was willing to go, because, if undue expectations were excited respecting this inquiry, and if it were thought that
 735
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the amendment were carried, every portion of the coast would be a proper subject for inquiry. It would be much better, and he would put it to the hon. Member opposite, to allow the inquiry first proposed to be completed, and, when the result of that was known, then to consider the necessity of extending it. He should, therefore, oppose the amendment, more especially as the hon. and gallant Member behind him had shown a difference between that and the original motion, from the circumstance of refuge harbours being more required in the narrow seas in case of war than in any other part.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that in case the amendment was adopted, he should certainly propose to extend it to the south western coast.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  took the liberty of very humbly asking the
 748 ex parte ex parte; 749 750 F. Burdett
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had understood the hon. Baronet to complain that there had been no insertion in any newspaper of the condemnation which the Government was bound in law to insert, and that, therefore, Mr. Dillon was ignorant of the condemnation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : But Mr. Dillon had himself assigned these as the facts, that shortly after the condemnation he learnt that the seizing-officer, Mr. Marsden, had been awarded upwards of 11,000 l, 751 exparte l. l., Francis Burdett 752 l., 753
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  explained. He said, that he believed that there was another letter from Lord Althorp upon this subject, which had not been communicated to hon. Gentlemen opposite. On the return of that noble Lord to town, he directed Mr. Drummond to write a letter, in which, after stating the facts, he said that after a full investigation of the case, the noble Lord was of opinion that the money having been distributed, and no claim made until so long a period had been allowed to elapse after the transaction, the Treasury Board could not come to any other determination than that which had been already communicated.
 Mr. A. Chapman  thought, that the
 745
 Mr. A. White  considered this an important inquiry, and that it must be advantageous, but thought the north-eastern coast equally well deserving of consideration, and he therefore hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would agree to the amendment.
 Mr. Hawes  said, on the admission of the noble Lord of the state of the case, the country had a right to know what chance there was of obtaining any speedy redress, particularly when it was added, and he spoke correctly, that the last communication from the French Government was an absolute denial of our claim, so late as July last. In what state was our trade there at present? Was there any protection given to it now? Were we able to carry on the trade? Had our traders the protection of an armed force? and if so, how was it that up to this moment the aggression, of which complaint was made, had succeeded in extinguishing our trade? He thought there was ample proof that the Foreign Government had not been attentive to the interests of our trade. British merchants could not go on trading from year to year, as the French Government had absolutely denied the claim, and consequently made it unsafe to trade. He must say, he thought the Government was bound to take more effective measures to enforce attention to its demands than the noble Lord had indicated that the Government bad thought proper to take. There was one question which must force itself on their attention—it was, to what extent were our merchants to put up with French interference with our commerce, and to what extent were they to put up with interference in despite of treaties and express statements to the contrary? He said, that they ought not to acquiesce in apathy to aggressions on the part of the French, whether in Africa, or on the coast of Mexico, until the French had obtained establishments which would effectually compete with our trade. These were surely aggressions which the House ought not to allow the Government to pass over He spoke the sense of the whole mercantile community when he said, that peace could not long exist between the two countries if these successive aggressions went on. The whole responsibility rested with the noble Lord: from him they had a clear right to demand the state of the present negotiation.
 Mr. Litton  considered that a fair case for inquiry had been made out, and he thought that the proposition was the more abundantly confirmed, as the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, although he had gone into considerable detail, had not stated that any real inquiry had yet been made. The case, it was true, might have been investigated by a Treasury
 754
 Mr. E. Rice rose,  pursuant to the notice he had given, to move an address for an inquiry into the state of the Harbours on the South-eastern coast. The question was one which had met the approbation of all the distinguished naval officers in and out of that House with whom he had conversed. It was the more necessary that our south-eastern harbours should be placed in a fit and safe state for the reception of vessels, as we were about to have a greatly increased intercourse with the continent. A line of rail-road from London to Dover had received the sanction of the Legislature, and was now in a state of considerable forwardness; and a line of railroad from Calais and Boulogne to Paris had received the sanction of the French Chambers. When these were completed, it was natural to expect a vast increase of intercourse between London and Paris, and other parts of the Continent. Under these circumstances, the condition of our south-eastern harbours was a matter of considerable importance. He did not wish by his motion to pledge the Government to any outlay of money; all he wanted at present was, an examination of the condition of those harbours by scientific men. He had brought forward this motion as the representative of a port where the necessity of such improvement was greatly felt.
 Mr. F. Hodgson,  if that were proposed, should be most happy to support it, as one part of the coast ought not to be favoured over others.
 Mr. Darby  said, that upon the coast referred to in the original motion, this question bad been considered of vast importance, and he felt great obligation to the hon. Member opposite for bringing it forward, and to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for so readily acceding to it. He hoped, however, that his hon. Friend near him (Mr. Alderman Thompson), and also the Solicitor-General, would not press their amendment, as there was a great difference, on account of the narrow seas, between the south-eastern coast and any other part.
 Mr. Grote  would not have interfered, if he had not satisfied himself, that there had been great wrong and great aggravation in the way of insult and oppression offered to the British merchant. If the same wrong had been inflicted on any French merchant, he (Mr. Grote) should have said, that, the Englishman by whom it was inflicted, deserved the most serious reprimand and censure. The person on whom this great positive wrong had been inflicted—this same merchant had sustained a still further loss by being interdicted from carrying on trade there ever since. There was also the very serious and permanent damage of having that trade for ever interdicted to English capital and enterprise. He hoped, that the correspondence which the noble Lord had entered into with the French government would show, that he had been urgent in this matter on the French government. Still he was aware, that it was a matter very fit to be pressed on the attention of the House of Commons, more especially as five years had now elapsed since the damage had been done. The French government was more reluctant than ever he was sorry to say, to entertain the proposition of compensation, and had shown nothing like an inclination to accord satisfaction any more now, than when at first the matter was inquired into. Such conduct, uninquired into, and unredressed, tended to inflict on British commerce a feeling of insecurity of a most injurious description. He would not long detain the House, but would conclude with impressing on the House, the necessity of taking some steps on the question.
 Mr. Hume  said, after the great patience which had been exhibited, it behoved Government to lay the papers on the Table. He admitted the degree of patience which every public officer ought to exercise; but he thought the noble Lord was not dealing fairly with the merchant. He did not think any other country, America, for instance, would put up with such delay. He believed, if the President came to the resolution, honestly and fairly, that this was a just and honest claim, that he would send it down to the House and ask their opinion on the subject. And what did the noble Lord? He said it was not a good example. He (Mr. Hume) thought it was; and that the noble Lord, after his speech, had good ground for such a precedent.
 Mr. Hume : Would the noble Lord state what naval force there was there to give protection?
 Mr. Hume  though the statement just made by the noble Lord satisfactory, and he would recommend the hon. Gentleman to comply with the noble Lord's suggestion.
 Mr. Pease  thought the House was taking too light and superficial a view respecting the north-eastern coast; for there were twenty vessels passing along that coast for every one that went down the Channel. The south-eastern coast in a great measure relied upon the aid of Government, whilst the north-eastern coast had depended on its own private resources, and had expended thousands, he might say millions, in making the harbours efficient. He agreed, therefore, with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that Government interference should only be carried to a certain extent, and not so far as to do away with the exertions of individuals locally connected with the parts of the coast inquired into. At the same time, if the amendment were lost, he hoped the Government would consider the state of the harbours on the north-eastern coast as well as on the south-eastern.
 Mr. Pease  differed from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The Sound dues were most enormous—far exceeding any sums expended by the Danish government for the protection of navigation, and were most grievously oppressive upon British commerce. The same observations applied to the dues recently imposed upon the transit of goods between Lubeck and Hamburgh.
 Mr. Planta  considered it most important that inquiry should be made into the present state of our harbours. He happened to be living on the very coast respecting the state of which inquiry was now proposed, and during the last autumn not less than six ships had been wrecked because there was no refuge port for them to put into between Dungeness and Beachy Head. He might, if necessary, also quote the opinion of the illustrious Warden of the Cinque Ports in favour of inquiry into this subject, and thought that it was more satisfactory that Government should make this inquiry than to leave it to a committee. The present motion, if it were carried, would produce great practical good, and he was delighted to find, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had at once so fairly, and he might say so cordially, given to it his assent. With respect to the amendment, he would say, with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, "let this inquiry he gone into first, and when the result was known, then extend it further, if necessary."
 Mr. Philip Howard  did not oppose the motion of the right hon. Gentleman, from any wish to under-rate the grievances and injuries sustained by British merchants,
 732 733
 Sir S. Lushington  said, that at the conclusion of last Session he bad moved for the production of the correspondence relating to the outrages of which certain merchants of this country complained they had suffered from the French authorities on the western coast of Africa. At that time the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs refused to produce the documents, on the ground that a negotiation was pending with the French government. A considerable time had now elapsed, and it was five years from the date of the first aggression; four since that of the second. He regretted to say, that even since the date of his motion last year, intelligence of fresh injuries and aggressions had been received. No redress for the former outrages had been obtained, and he could not but think, that if the injuries of which he complained on behalf of the British merchants had really been inflicted as he was instructed, they were really and truly injuries which called for some redress. The time had, in his opinion, then arrived when ample opportunity for inquiry must needs have occurred. It was a great and important question which was to be decided, namely, whether the British nation shall be excluded in future from the trade she had hitherto enjoyed on the western coast of Africa. This was the question to be decided, if indeed it was not already decided; because if he was not misinformed, an insult had been offered by a French naval officer to the British nation, in the person of the British merchants trading on that coast, which remained unredressed to that hour, and not merely unredressed, but so far from it, that not even the shadow of an apology to that hour had been made by the French Government. With reference to the question of the alliance between France and England, and the necessity which was
 722 "Sir,—Considering that in violation of the laws subsisting between civilized nations, the Governor of St. Mary's, in the Gambia, has sent you to Portendic, where you constantly
 723 "As to the gum trade, the English shall have the liberty of carrying it on from the mouth of the river St. John to the bay and fort of Portendic inclusively, provided that they shall not form any permanent settlement, of what nature soever, in the said river St. John, upon the coast, or in the bay of Portendic." 724 l. 725 726
 Mr. Gibson  consented to adopt the amendment proposed by the noble Lord. Motion in the amended form agreed to.
 Mr. Gibson  rose to move an address for "copies of any despatches or correspondence that may have passed between the British mission at Copenhagen, and her Majesty's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, relative to the duties and fees lately imposed by Denmark upon the transit of goods between Hamburgh and Lubeck." Before he discussed the question how far he was justified by circumstances in calling for this information, he would briefly state the nature of the communication between Hamburgh and Lubeck, and the manner in which the tolls levied there acted upon British interests. That road constituted the shortest communication between the North or German Ocean and the Baltic, and a sort of highway for commerce between that sea and the west of Europe, by which a long voyage round the Sound was saved. Up to the present time this road had been free from all tolls and duties whatever, and, as there were parts of the year when the
 738 schillings schillings 739 primâ facie 740 741
 Alderman Thompson  said, he must beg leave to offer a few observations in reply to what had fallen from the noble Lord. He was against calling for correspondence generally in such a case, but this was a case  per se. 729
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  thought, that this was a great national subject of inquiry, and wished to know why the proposed inquiry should not be extended further. The north-eastern coast was, as to navigation, much more dangerous than the south-eastern, and he should, therefore, move, that after the words "south-eastern coast" in the original motion, the words "and north-eastern coast" be added.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, he had risen before to second the original motion, but had given way to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The difference between the original motion and the amendment in his opinion was this—that if war arose, it was in the narrow seas more especially, that harbours of refuge were required, because, in the present state of steam navigation, steamers could run over very rapidly. To call upon the Government, therefore, to go into an inquiry as to any other part of the coast than the south-eastern, was, as he thought, unnecessary at the present time.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that if the old custom of having ships of war stationed in those places where British trade to any extent was carried on had been adhered to in the present case, we should never have heard of such complaints as these.
 Sir T. Troubridge  was most anxious that the House should come to a decision, and he must thank the hon. Member for having brought it forward, and the Chan-
 737
 Sir Francis Burdett,  in bringing before the House the case of Mr. Dillon, whose petition was presented on the 27th of March last, observed, that if there were any one thing more important than another to the navy, it was, that all deserving officers and men should receive the rewards which they had well earned. Mr. Dillon, the petitioner in the present case, had been nine years a master mariner in the royal navy, and had afterwards served in the coast guard, in a situation which required good seamanship, much courage, and a great deal of judgment, skill, and discretion. It appeared, that he had performed all the duties of this situation with ability, skill, and courage, that he did not omit anything that zeal could prompt, or that courage guided by prudence could achieve. Mr. Dillon having the command of a boat engaged in the coast-guard service at Mill Cove Harbour, in the county of Cork, surprised and chased a smuggler of very superior size, crowded with men, and well armed, drove her from Mill Cove Harbour, where she evidently intended to make a landing, and compelled her, by the closeness of his pursuit, to seek for refuge in the harbour of Kinsale, where she was captured, and ultimately condemned. Immediately after the transaction, Mr. Dillon received a letter from the Treasury, expressing the highest approbation of his conduct, but much litigation ensued before the smuggler was finally condemned. Meanwhile Mr. Dillon entered the merchant service and sailed to the West Indies, where he remained for upwards of four years, and it was not
 746 l. 747 l. l. l.
 Sir Francis Burdett  did not state anything about Mr. Dillon's not knowing the value of the prize, but he complained that the condemnation had not been gazetted as it ought to have been, and that Mr. Dillon did not know of the condemnation when he went to the West Indies, at-whatever time that was, whether it was two years or more after the seizure. That was Mr. Dillon's complaint.
 Sir Francis Burdett : as he perceived the sense of the House to be against him, should not give them the trouble to divide.
 Sir F. Trench  rose to propose the resolution of which he had given notice, namely, that it is the opinion of this House that the present mode of lighting the House with wax candles and green shades is satisfactory; and that, therefore, further experiments and expense are unnecessary. Gentlemen were, probably, not aware of the expense attending the experiments that were being carried on respecting the lighting of the House. He believed that the hon. Member for Kilkenny was the main director of the present experiment. Hon. Gentlemen would perceive that there were eight large lenses inserted in the roof of the House, and undoubtedly the
 755
 Sir R. Peel  wished to ask a question, which was not altogether unconnected with the matter before the House. It related to the seizure of the pilot on board the Express packet. It would be in the recollection of the House, that when this subject was before the House, on a former occasion, he had ventured to predict, that
 731
 Sir R. Peel —it was then clearly understood, that we contended for the perfect right of protection to our flag in merchant-vessels, as well as to our ships of war?
 Lord Palmerston —The only difference would be, that an attempt of the same kind on a ship of war, might lead to a more immediate collision, and tend to bring the question to a more speedy issue; but, in point of national right, there was no difference whatever between the protection to our flag on board vessels of either kind.
 Viscount Palmerston  admitted, that there was no difference between the protection which should be extended to our flag flying in a merchant vessel, and to one of our ships of war, and an insult to that flag, would be as great a violation of our rights in a merchant-ship as in a ship of war, but the letter from Count Sebastiani stated, that the French was not aware at the time that the Express belonged to our royal navy, but he did not even know that she belonged to the British marine—a term which, in its French acceptation would include merchant vessels, as well as ships of war; and Count Sebastiani stated to him, that that term was advisedly used as meaning that vessels of both classes were equally entitled to protection.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, when this question was brought forward last year, he had stated that he was fully sensible of the importance of the matter. He was at the time in negotiation with the French Government on the subject of the claims made for compensation by the parties who were sufferers, and he had been in hopes that before any further inquiry would have been entered into substantial redress would have been made. He had to state, that the discussion between the two Governments on the subject had not yet been brought to a conclusion. He undoubtedly agreed with his right hon. Friend, not only in the statement of facts, but also in the opinion that he had expressed, that wrong had been done to British subjects, for which they
 727 728
 Viscount Palmerston  said, the gum trade was carried on at certain seasons of the year; and at that particular season of the year one or two ships of war, as the case might he, had been sent there; and he was not aware that that protection had been inadequate.
 Viscount Palmerston  begged to say one word in explanation. He thought he must have been misunderstood when it was said that he had stated, that the French Government absolutely denied the justice of the claim. If the case were in that state, he should admit that there was ground for the production of the papers; but what he had stated was, that the French Government had not admitted the justice of our claim, but considered it was a question still under discussion. With regard to the point alluded to by his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth, who seemed to think that there was no protection afforded to the trade to Portendic, every season they had sent armed vessels to that point, and he had no reason to believe it true that the ceasing of the British importation of gum was owing to any want of naval protection to commerce there.
 Viscount Palmerston  observed, that the question to which the hon. Gentleman had directed the attention of the House had for some months past engaged the attention of her Majesty's Government. In August last her Majesty's Government understood, that it was the intention of the Danish government to impose transit dues on goods passing between the Baltic and the North Sea—between Lubeck and Hamburgh, and that that duty, as the hon. Gentleman had stated, was not to be equal with reference to the direction in which goods were passing, but was to be doubled on goods passing to the Baltic as compared with goods passing from the Baltic. The question to be considered was, whether the Danish government had an abstract right to impose these transit duties. He was afraid that there was no ground upon which they could deny the right which belonged to every independent State to impose a transit duty upon goods passing through its territory, provided always, that that duty was moderate and equal only to the services performed by the country by which it was imposed, and provided also, that it was equal in its amount and operation as applied to all nations. Now, as related to the dues in question, the British Government first of all objected to the inequality of the duty, founded upon the direction in which goods were passing, and they made strong representations against that inequality, because it was obvious, that goods passing from the Baltic were deriving an advantage in the English market which was denied to goods passing from the British dominions to the markets of the Baltic. The result of these representations was, that in December last the Danish government informed the Government of this country of its intention to equalize the duty, by reducing the higher dues between Hamburgh and Lubeck to the lower rate of dues imposed between Lubeck and F1arnburgh; that was to say, that whereas 10 schillings were originally imposed the one way, and 5 schillings the other, hereafter the duty
 742 743 744
 Mr. Ervart  would give his cordial support to this bill, and he thought, that he could find his first reason for so doing in the extremely feeble speeches of the right hon. Baronet and of the hon. Gentleman opposite who had opposed the present motion. Knowing the power of the right hon. Baronet, and being aware of his eloquence, they could not trace the feebleness he had displayed to any want of talent, but they must attribute it to the feebleness of the cause which he advocated. He had heard it with surprise asserted, that the suspension of the constitution of Jamaica was a suspension of popular government. Was that a popular government which ran counter to the wishes of the people, for whom it ruled? He confessed, that if he wanted to show the very opposite of popular government, he would point to the Legislative Assembly of Jamaica. They could no more draw a parallel between this assembly and popular government, than they could between the two great leaders of opposite parties on this question, Mr. Burge and the distinguished head of the United States, George Washington. It was not on the Prisons' Bill that he founded his vote—he only took the conduct of the Assembly with regard to that bill as an index of the disquiet which existed between the planters and the labourers; and it was upon the general grounds of the differences existing between them that the House was called upon to interfere. He thought, that in the intermediate period of danger, they should transfer the power from both parties, and vest it in a third, which would keep it safely for both. He was anxious to transfer the power; for he abhorred the power of the ascendancy system, either in
 823 "While we protest against the usurping power of the British Parliament, and deny their right to pass laws for our government, we cannot overlook the character of the parliament which affects to regulate and constrain our morals and humanity. The greatest share of power rests in the House of Commons. That body has been accused before the world and within its own walls, by a leading member, of the high crime of perjury. The accuser has not been punished nor the charge refuted; and he and the accuser himself are in their turn accused of violating their oaths as often as ecclesiastical matters are the subject of legislation in the House. The House of Commons has also been charged with corruption in the progress through the House of private bills." 824 "The island of Jamaica never will consent to be ruled by men who have, in their proceedings towards them, invaded the ancient statutes of the realm, and usurped the prerogative of the Crown; who have, although not represented amongst them, imposed on her people taxes and penalties, and set aside the trial by jury," 825
 Lord John Russell  appeared at the Bar, and upon being called upon by the Speaker, brought up a Message from her Majesty, the same as that sent to the Lords:— *
 Lord J. Russell  moved, that the Speaker do now leave the Chair.
 Mr. Charles Buller  spoke to the following effect: I am more than usually anxious, Sir, on the present occasion, to have an opportunity of explaining the reasons of my vote, because, while I am most decided in supporting the bill now before the House, I entirely dissent from the grounds on which it was at first specially proposed. The extensive and important change which it is now proposed to make in the form of government so long established in Jamaica, has been specifically grounded on the alleged necessity arising from the Assembly's refusal to discharge its duties, in consequence of the interference of the House of Commons with its privileges in the case of the Prisons Act. If this were the only ground on which alone this bill could be defended—if the question were, whether we are prepared to enforce the Prisons Act by destroying the Legislature which has ventured to resist it, I would vote against the present bill. Nothing is clearer than the duty of the supreme legislative authority to respect the independent exercise of that authority which it delegates to subordinate bodies. We have delegated the internal legislation of the province to the free inhabitants of the colony; and while that delegation of power exists—while we continue to recognize the compact of noninterference in the internal affairs of the island, it is our interest as well as our duty faithfully to observe the compact, and to respect the legislature which is established under our own authority. We have a perfect right to take away the present constitution of Jamaica if we please; but while we maintain it we must respect it, and respect the independence of those who, in resisting a violation of a compact, are not merely maintaining privileges which we have granted to them but discharging duties which we have imposed on them. The management of the prisons is clearly one of those matters of internal regulation, which the established constitution of the island vests in the sole discretion of its own legislature. That legislature has chosen to exercise its undoubted right in a manner repugnant to our sentiments and contrary to our views of sound legislation, and contrary, I am perfectly ready to admit, to every dictate alike of humanity and policy. But if you mean to allow the island a degree of self government, you must surely allow the
 826 827 828 829 830 831 Stanley. 832 833 834 835 836 837 locus penitentiœ 838 839
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down began his statement by declaring his belief that on the part of Government there was a very inadequate conception of the importance of the subject under discussion. He could answer the right hon. Gentleman that the Government was fully aware of the importance of the subject. He was satisfied that no question of greater importance could possibly occupy their attention. He believed, in the first place, that the future prosperity of Jamaica would depend on the manner in which the House of Commons decided the present question. He believed in the next place that the result of the great experiment they were now making, in which the universal wish of this country was interested, he meant the great experiment for so many ages unaccomplished, of leading by peaceable means a population of one million of our fellow-subjects from slavery and ignorance to freedom and enlightenment. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that with regard to the importance of the subject it was impossible for any one to be more deeply impressed with it than he was. The right hon. Gentleman also said that he regretted being obliged as a party leader to oppose this question. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that not only on this question, but on others connected with our colonies it would be most dangerous to deal with them in a party spirit. He said it most sincerely that in the present divided state of parties in that House and in the country, if our great colonial possessions were to be made the battlefield on which party questions were to be fought, the integrity of the empire would be placed in the utmost danger. He should commence his observations by attempting to recall the attention of the House to that, which it had been the whole tendency of the right hon. Gentleman's speech to keep out of sight, namely, the real state of the case under consideration, and the real grounds on which the House was to form its decision. He should begin by stating to the House the facts connected with the present contest between the Assembly of Jamaica and the Parliament and
 796 à priori "Many important subjects consequent upon the altered condition of society will, I hope, receive your early and serious consideration. I shall lose no time in laying before you various dispatches from her Majesty's Government. I beg to assure you of my cordial co-operation in all measures which may tend to improve the laws, to give security to property, to protect the just rights of the peasantry, and assure peace and happiness to all classes of her Majesty's subjects." "House of Assembly, Oct.31, 1838. "Resolved, 1st. That the act of the British Parliament, intituled, 'An Act for the better Government of Prisons in the West Indies,' is a violation of our inherent rights as British subjects, as recognised by the constitution of this island, and by the Act of Parliament 18 Geo. III., c. 12; that the same has not, and
 797 "Resolved, 2d. That the violation of our 141hts by the Parliament of Great Britain, in which we are not represented, is the less excusable, inasmuch as the house was prepared to enter into the consideration of prison disciline as soon as the report of her Majesty's commissioner was officially before them. "Resolved, 3d. That the House have witnessed with the deepest regret the unmerited censures passed upon the inhabitants of this island, the extent to which the public mind in Great Britain has been poisoned against them, the absence of all confidence in the Legislature, the reckless manner in which the laws passed by it have been disallowed, and the system of legislation for the colonies which has been determined on, whereby the power of the House has been fettered, and that body has ceased to exist for any purpose useful to the people whom they represent. "Resolved, 4th. Therefore, that, in the opinion of this House, they will best consult their own honour the rights of their constituents, and the peace and well-being of the colony, by abstaining from the exercise of any legislative function, excepting such as may be necessary to preserve inviolate the faith of the island with the public creditor, until her most gracious Majesty's pleasure shall be made known, whether her subjects of Jamaica, now happily all in a state of freedom, are henceforth to be treated as subjects with the power of making laws, as hitherto, for their own government, or whether they are to be treated as a conquered colony and governed by parliamentary legislation, orders in council; or, as in the case of the late amended Abolition Act, by investing the Governor of the island with the arbitrary power of issuing proclamations having the force of law over the lives and properties of the people." 798 "It will be my duty to lay before you various communications from her Majesty's Government, explanatory of the grounds upon which her Majesty, in the exercise of her prerogative, has been pleased to disallow certain laws of the island, and conveying her Majesty's recommendation, that provision should be made by the Colonial Legislature for the introduction of several measures of vital interest to all classes of her Majesty's subjects in Jamaica, amongst which are included those having for their objects the prevention of vagrancy, the better regulating the relative rights and duties of masters and servants in husbandry or other kind of handicraft, the determining the qualification of electors, the regulation of a militia, and the preventing the unauthorised occupation of lands belonging either to the Crown or private individuals."
 Mr. Labouchere, —That act certainly was not mentioned. Now, in reply to this speech the House of Assembly returned for answer, that they admitted the emergency in which the country might be placed by the expiration of the annual laws, and the necessity of passing those that were recommended by the Governor in his speech, but so long as their rights continued to be invaded, they must adhere to their resolution of the last Session, and therefore declined to proceed with the business before them. Now, having twice tried the experiment with this House of Assembly, and having found that on two separate occasions they absolutely refused to discharge the duties which they were nominated to perform, Sir L. Smith determined—he thought wisely—that it was idle to continue it in its legislative capacity any longer. Accordingly he dissolved the House of Assembly. A new election took place, and on the 18th of December a new assembly w as summoned; and this was the answer returned to the address of the Governor by this new assembly after mature deliberation:—
 "We thank your Excellency for your speech at the opening of the session. We feel in common with your Excellency the emergency in which the country may be placed by the expiration of the annual laws, and we also
 799 "My last despatches will have prepared your Lordship for the event which the new House of Assembly brought about—a confirmation of the resolutions of the last House—to do no business in consequence of the interference of Parliament in passing the Prisons Bill. All my endeavours to induce the House to proceed in their duties having failed, the country is placed in great confusion from the absence of the annual laws on which the public creditor and the public departments are regulated. About seventeen of these laws will expire at the end of this month, and amongst others the Police Bill, which force I must consequently discharge. I may probably, on the authority of your Lordship, in some exigencies,
 800 James Graham, 801 802 Member: Hansard "Mr. March—The speech which they had heard was a very mild and conciliatory one, and there was nothing in it to justify the expression of angry feelings, or a departure from the usual mode of disposing of the opening address. "Mr. Hamilton Brown had also said, he considered the speech of the Governor very conciliatory indeed, and hoped the usual courtesy of a reply to his Excellency would not be departed from." "They had not to deal with his Excellency's speech simply—they had to look otherwise—they had to look to the state of the country, and say what they intended to make up their minds to do. There was nothing in the speech which could justify the House in showing any want of courtesy to the
 803 Hear, hear! "If it were the intention of the British Government to legislate for her colonies, why let them honestly and openly avow it, and do so; but he deprecated this hotch-potch mode of legislation—this half legislation at home, and half here. The thing could go on no longer. The House must now make a stand, and bring the matter to a close. It was necessary to come at once to that point, and stick there, for that was, in point of fact, the only question before the House." "He did not blame the Governor. He was obliged to conform to his instructions." "It was worse than useless to keep up merely the show of legislative authority, when the substance was gone; the time had arrived when the House should, in justice to itself, and to its constituents, make a stand, by bringing the question fairly to issue, whether the laws for the government of the colony were to be made there or at home." "The passing of the Prisons Bill by the Imperial Parliament was the bone of contention. He regarded this measure as an interference with the privileges of the House; but it was not without justifiable cause, for it must be recollected, that during the administration of the Marquess of Sligo, the subject of prisons, with a view to their alteration and disci-
 804 "Her Majesty's Government, not satisfied with disallowing our laws, had proceeded to legislate for us by an imperial act of super-legislation. They had forced upon us the Prisons Bill. Were they, then, to waste their time in enacting laws which were sure to be disallowed. He would much rather that the Assembly were at once abolished, and the Government administered by a governor and council." 805 806 807 808 809 "By the present law, any person having entered into a contract, written or unwritten, with any other person for any kind of service, may, for not commencing his work according to the terms of the contract, or for absence during its continuance, or for neglecting to fulfil it, or for any other misconduct or misdemeanour in the execution thereof,' be committed, by any justice of the peace of the parish, to hard labour, in the house of correction for a reasonable time, not exceeding three months, and at the same time be deprived of the wages which would have been due during the period of such confinement; or he may be deprived of the whole or any part of his wages, or he may be discharged from his contract". Hear, hear! 810 811 812 813
 Mr. Hume  had listened with much attention to all his hon. and learned Friend had been saying, but he confessed he was very much at a loss to know, after all, what he would be at. The hon. and learned Gentleman attributed to him and to his hon. Friends around him, that they
 840 841 l. s. 842 843 844 845 Yes, yes!
 Mr. Godson  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Under-Secretary for the Colonies had stated, that the Government had determined to suspend the constitution of Jamaica on account of the fourth resolution which they had passed, and therefore he begged to direct the attention of the House to it. The rights of the people of Jamaica to a free constitution, which they had enjoyed for 150 years, had not been conferred upon them by Parliament, but by the Crown, and therefore, when they found their privileges invaded by an Act of the Imperial Legislature, the House of Assembly naturally referred to the Crown, by whom those privileges had been granted in the first instance. The Prisons Act was the first Act passed by Parliament which it was declared should have the force of law in the colony, and therefore they sent to inquire from her Majesty whether they were to go on legislating in future. The first time it had been attempted to call the attention of the people and the Assembly of Jamaica to the subject of prisons, was by the Governor in 1829, and in consequence of that attempt the Act of the 11th George 4th was passed. That Act, however, did not give satisfaction in this country, and had not received the sanction of the Government. Again, the Assembly passed another Act on the same subject, and provided no less a sum than £.42,000 for the establishment of gaols. That Act was one of very great importance, and was calculated to be of the
 814 815 816 l. l., s. l. l. 817 818 819 820 821 822 l.
 Sir George Grey  certainly expected that the House would have been favoured with stronger reasons from the right hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House in support of the course which they had adopted. He thought they should have been favoured with the sentiments of the noble Lord opposite, who was more intimately conversant with colonial affairs than the right hon. Baronet, as the leader on this occasion of the attack which had made upon the bill brought forward by her Majesty's Government, and as the proposer of any substitution that might be offered in its stead; but it appeared that the whole opposition was to rest upon the facts and arguments contained in the speech of the right hon. Baronet, a speech which had disappointed the expectations he had formed. Knowing and admiring as he did—and as every man must who knew the right hon. Baronet—his great and extraordinary talents, his extensive Parliamentary skill and experience—he must say that the speech of the right hon. Baronet had produced a feeling in his mind of surprise and disappointment,
 846 847 848 "The question for me to consider, said the right hon. Member for Ripon, is whether any case has yet arisen in which the House has at present a right to interfere. On that I believe there can be no doubt. For my own part I know of no instance in history in which there has ever been so audacious a breaking in upon the expressed intentions, declarations, and enactments, of the legislature as there has been here." 849 "That the flogging of females had been carried on to an extent that is astonishing; that no notice has been taken of that inhuman practice by the colonial Assembly except by appointing a committee to examine into its existence; but that, nevertheless, there cannot be the slightest doubt that this abuse exists in every workhouse in Jamaica." "It appears to be beyond a doubt, said his Grace, that the colonial legislatures have not carried the new system into execution as they ought to have done; and some two or three years ago your Lordships were under the necessity of consenting to a bill rendered necessary in consequence of the legislature of Jamaica having refused, under not very creditable circumstances, to enact a law which it had positively promised to pass. Under these circumstances, considering that we are now approaching to within a couple of years of the period when a new state of society is to be established in all the British possessions where slavery has existed, I must say I think Parliament ought not to hesitate adopting some measure of the description now proposed, for the purpose of carrying into full and complete execution the object which the Imperial Legislature had in view when the Emancipation Act was passed. It appears to me that if the legislature of the colonies had acted as sensible men ought to have done in the circumstances in which they were placed four years ago, they would have had before them, and the British Parliament would have had before it, a very different prospect from that which I fear exists at the present moment." 850 "I cannot dismiss from consideration the specific cases now before me, without taking this opportunity of recording, that it has not been for want of repeated efforts on the part of her Majesty's Government to obtain an amendment of the law, that it has been found, down to the date of these cases, to be still unavailable for the correction of such abuse as those which form the subject of this correspondence. "In my despatch, No. 84, of the 29th of August, 1835, I urged an amendment of the law, by which the ill treatment of women in gaols might be prevented. "In my despatch, No. 125, of the 15th of October, 1835, I desired that the 'Assembly should be reminded of the pressing importance of enactments to secure the attendance of the children of apprentices at schools. "In my despatch, No. 257, of the 24th of April, 1836, I seconded the wishes of the Marquess of Sligo for laws to restrain cruelty in hospitals, and to authorize the inspection of them by special justices at all hours. A committee of the Assembly alleged, it is true, that the right to inspect was not disputed; but I find by the despatches now before me, that the attendance and proper treatment of the sick is not yet secured by law, although defects of the law on this head were pointed to by Lord Stanley, at the very beginning of the apprenticeship, in his despatch of the 20th of February, 1834, No. 3. "In my despatch, No. 285, of the 14th of June, 1836, I desired that the Assembly should be applied to for a law to restrain the powers of officers in workhouses to the infliction of such punishments only as should have been authorised in writing by a magistrate. "In my dispatch, No. 303, of the 28th of June, 1836, I directed application to be made to the Assembly for a law to prevent the flogging of women on the treadmill. "In my despatches, Nos. 87 and 103, of the 29th of April and 10th of June, 1837, I had to regret the refusal of the Assembly to entertain the various proposals which you had brought before them, for supplying deficiencies
 851 "In my despatch, No. 99, of the 25th May of this year, I desired that the Assembly should be called on to exempt the apprentices from the operation of certain enactments respecting vagrants. I have yet to learn whether this application has shared the fate of those previously enumerated. "It is with serious regret and concern that I have found myself under the necessity of reverting thus specifically to a succession of ineffectual attempts to obtain requisite amendments of the law in Jamaica; but the continual recurrence of abuses, to the prevention of which many of those attempts were directed, imperatively requires that I should discharge myself of the responsibility which would attach to me, if I did not once more convey through you to the Assembly of Jamaica, an earnest exhortation that they will not allow the period of apprenticeship to expire without any thing being effectually done, by their own intervention, to mitigate grievances, which, while they must exasperate the minds of the apprentices, cannot fail to be attended with serious injury to the future interests of their employers. "I have, &c. (Signed) "GLENELG." 852 "If there be a course of baste and rashness which would render insurrection in the colonies inevitable, it is that which would set the slaves of Demerara, Trinidad, or Berbice free, and at the same time leave those of Jamaica and the other colonies to continue five or six years in a state of unmitigated slavery. It would be impossible for all the power of tins country to introduce freedom into any one of those small islands and to continue slavery in Jamaica." 853 "That the anxious attention of this House will be directed to the state and condition of the negro population when the expiration of the term of apprenticeship shall have entitled them to the full enjoyment of entire freedom." 854 l. l. 855 l. l. "That this meeting sees no reason to doubt that the House of Assembly of Jamaica, relieved from all the difficulties and anomalies incidental to legislation during a state of slavery
 856 locus penitentiœ "In the discussion of this question, Mr. Canning, dissatisfied as he was with the result of the measures of 1823 and 1824, did not adopt a harsh tone—he did not call upon Parliament immediately to adopt such measures as would bring the contumacious opposition of the colonial legislatures to the test. On the contrary, he begged for time, for a respite as he called it, to allow the colonies to reconsider their refusal, and to call to mind the position in which they were placing themselves with respect to this country by their constant interposition between the wishes of the legislature here, and the well being of the
 857 "This took place in 1826—I am now addressing Parliament in 1833, and up to this hour neither the voice of friendly expostulation nor of authority has produced the desired effect. Undoubtedly some of the colonies have gone through the form of carrying the outline of the shadow of some of the bills into effect, but all have studiously avoided the substance." 858 859 Hear, Bear!" 860 "The local magistrates form from their body a gaol committee, to inspect and make regulations; but the power and management are almost entirely left to the deputy provost marshal. The emoluments of the deputy provost marshals are chiefly derived from fees. Their salaries as gaolers vary from 100 l. l., l. l, s. s. "In several instances, the boatswains of the yard and of the penal gang are themselves convicts, some for life. The superiors are generally men who have been planters or in business, and failed, and receive their appointments as a new resource. To several of the houses of correction, a matron is attached—the salary from 20 l. l. 861 "At Kingston, where cats were regularly hung up under the wheel, and at the former place, the supervisor admitted, that it was used by his authority, when the prisoners would not step properly. The supervisor and the keeper of Kingston prevented my examining the prisoners them selves. At Vere, though stated not to be used, a case had occurred very lately, when it was applied pretty severely. Almost all the houses of correction and gaols have rooms with bilboe rods, and it is certainly a most efficient contrivance for the purpose of security. A strong iron bar extends along the length of the room, and generally through a hole in the wall, so that it can be locked in a different room from that occupied by the prisoners. Shackles fitting the leg above the ancle run upon this bar; the bar is carried along the bottom of the bench, forming the bed about four inches above it. A whole row of prisoners, can, therefore, be secured upon it, almost without a possibility of effecting their escape. In the lockups of Brownstown and Annatta Bay, prisoners are placed in these bilboes for security this was also done in some cases at St. Elizabeth's and Port Maria. At Clarendon, and St. Ann's Bay, the convicted prisoners were every night placed in them. At the latter, the supervisor, by whom the keys are kept, and his assistant both lived at some distance from the prison, so that the yard was left at night in charge of a boatswain, who is a convict for life. One of the rooms in this prison in which prisoners were put in the bilboes, was little more than six feet wide—therefore only just sufficient for the bench on which they slept, with but few inches to spare." 862 863 864
 Sir R. Peel. —Was the Prisons' Act mentioned in this speech?
 Sir R. Peel  had hoped that the House might have been spared the necessity of the present discussion, and that they might have come to some arrangement with respect to the government of Jamaica without any party conflict, or even any serious division of opinion as to the course which it might be advisable to pursue. He had the strongest impression that it was desirable to exhaust every alternative before proceeding to the forfeiture of the constitution of that important colony, or to the suspension of the system of representative government, and establishing a despotic and arbitrary power in place of that liberal system which had prevailed for upwards of 150 years. He thought, also, that in the event of the necessity for interference being demonstrated by proofs too unequivocal to be called in question, it was of the utmost importance that the measure to be adopted, in consequence of the continued refusal of the local authorities to exercise their power, should be sanctioned by as strong and as unanimous a concurrence of public sentiment in this country as it was possible to obtain. It was limn these joint impressions of the expediency of postponing the application
 * Ante, 766 767 768 769 770 771 772 l., l., l., l., l. l. l.; l. 773 "From these six capital sources—of descent, of form of government, of religion in the northern provinces, of manners in the
 774 "There is, however, a circumstance attending these colonies which, in my opinion, fully counterbalances this difference'—namely, re-
 775 "The last cause of this disobedient spirit in the colonies is hardly less powerful than the rest, as it is not merely moral, but laid deep in the natural constitution of things. 3,000 miles of ocean lie between you and them. No contrivance can prevent the effect of this distance in weakening government. Seas roll, and months pass, between the order and the execution, and the want of a speedy explanation of a single point is enough to defeat a whole system." 776 "In conclusion, we firmly assure your Lordship, that we shall use all constitutional and
 777 "Whereas taxation by the Parliament of Great Britain, for the purpose of raising revenue, is found by experience to occasion great uneasiness in the minds of his Majesty's subjects in his provinces (Massachusetts), this is to declare, that the King and Parliament of Great Britain will not impose any future tax or assessment for the purpose of raising revenue?" 778 779 780 l. l. l. 781 l. l. 782 "Whereas the House of General Assembly of the island of Jamaica having been summoned to meet on the 17th of December, 1838, to make, constitute, and ordain laws, statutes, and ordinances, for the public welfare and good government of the said island, and having met in pursuance of such summons, did then resolve that unless certain conditions should be complied with, to which it is not expedient that Parliament should accede, they would abstain from the exercise of any legislative function, excepting such as might be necessary to preserve inviolate the faith of the island with the public creditors. And whereas it has thus become necessary that temporary provision should be made for making, constituting, and ordaining, laws, statutes, and ordinances for the public welfare and good government of the said island; be it therefore enacted," &c. 783 "Of the measures which have, in consequence, received the sanction of the legislature, one of the most difficult and important was the bill for the abolition of slavery. The manner in which that beneficent measure has been received throughout the British colonies, and the progress already made in carrying it into execution by the legislature of the Island of Jamaica, afford just grounds for anticipating the happiest results." "In making to your Lordship my usual report on the state of the island, the last that in
 784 "I have not forgotten, that Jamaica set the first example in speedily and laudably giving effect to the wishes of the Imperial Parliament, in the furtherance of emancipation, and I feel under great obligations to them for their conduct on this occasion." "He acknowledged with great pleasure the
 785 "I enclose for your Lordships' information a printed copy of the law relative to classification, by legal enactment, of the apprenticed population. The chairman of this committee appointed to bring in this bill, communicated with me freely with respect to its details, and at my suggestion one or two clauses were struck out, which appeared to me to militate against the provisions of the Imperial Abolition Act." "It has been very gratifying to me to learn by this despatch the successful result of my recommendation, and your efforts to introduce a classification which will effectually obviate the confusion and discontent, which might otherwise have prevailed at the expiration of fifteen months from the present time. In this result I gladly acknowledge one of the beneficial consequences which have followed from the friendly understanding which has prevailed between yourself and the House of Assembly." 786 "On my first meeting the Legislature, I brought such subjects to their notice as I considered of paramount importance, and I had the satisfaction of witnessing last Session an anxious desire on your part to improve the condition of the negro population. Frequent experience in your local affairs has not diminished my confidence on that and other subjects, particularly, that you will receive from me, with your usual liberality, such suggestions as I may have to offer to you for the improvement of the future interests of the masters and apprentices." 787 788 l. 789 790 "I have the sincere satisfaction to acquaint your Lordship that I this day assented to an Act which has passed the Council and Assembly, for the total abolition of the prædial apprenticeship on and from the first day of August next." "I anticipate the happiest results from this event towards all classes of her Majesty's subjects." "I beg to enclose your Lordship the Act passed on this occasion, which I hope may be found sufficient to secure the rights of the labouring population in their free condition, and to protect the aged, diseased, and infirm. I have, further, the honour to transmit a copy of my speech, by which I prorogued the Session to the 17th of next month." "Gentlemen of the Council,—Mr. Speaker and Gentlemen of the House of Assembly,—I congratulate you and the whole country on the Act for the abolition of the apprenticeship from the first of August next, and most fervently do I hope that it may insure to the colony those advantages which equal liberty under wise laws has ever been found to produce." "I am happy that I can now grant you a recess, as I am most anxious that you should, by returning to your homes, be enabled to make such arrangements as may give encouragement to the industry of the free labourer, and by your example, prepare all ranks to meet the approaching change in a spirit of kindness and mutual good will." "It will, I am convinced, prove a source of lasting satisfaction to you, that this final declaration of unrestricted freedom has been the act of the Legislature of Jamaica; and I cordially thank you for the great boon it confers upon those whose former condition has long been the cause of painful discontent both here and in the mother country." 791 792 793 Cheers! 794 795
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. Member opposite (Mr. G. Knight) was not the man who should circulate the calumnies which he had spoken to-night against the useful class of people to whom he had referred. It was not for any friend of humanity to do so. The charge which was brought by the hon. Member was that of decoying the negro population, and it came from a man who, speaking from his knowledge of Jamaica, and from his knowledge of property there, could have informed them of the eminent services of that portion of the population to which he had alluded. He was glad to find that the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken was an advocate for popular rights, and he hoped to see him shortly enrolled among the Chartists themselves. He did not think that the right hon. Gentleman had been very fortunate in his illustrations. He had shown a number of the acts of the colonial legislature, exclusive of Jamaica, to have been disallowed. He did not say that any of them had been so disallowed improperly, but, on the contrary, his testimony appeared to have been given in favour of the Government which disallowed them. Then, what did this prove? The incompetency of that species of government which at present existed in the colony—without the utmost vigilance on the part of the Government at home to legislate for the negroes. The right hon. Gentleman said, "If you destroy the constitution of Jamaica, you must also take away the constitutions of the other colonies." Was there not this obvious distinction between the cases of Jamaica and the other islands, that although the legislatures of those other colonies passed acts proper to be disallowed, not one of them abdicated its powers by resolutions such as had been come to in Jamaica? The House of Assembly of Jamaica, however, had abdicated its powers: finding that it could not restore slavery in another shape, it had gone on with its func-
 914 "The Governor has acted exceedingly ill, because the quarrel, at first, was only with the members of the House of Assembly, and ought not to implicate the constituency at large. He should not have dismissed the House; it was treating them ill; but at all events he should not have implicated the constituency," 915 916 locus penitentiœ, "The tread-mill at this workhouse is a cylinder about eight feet in diameter, with broad steps. The handrail above it has eight pair of straps fastened to it, with which the wrists of the prisoners are always secured. The board under the rail descends perpendicularly, and not in a sloping direction, towards the mill, and does not, therefore, afford them the slightest protection when they lose the step and hang by the wrists. In that case, the sharp steps of the mill, which project twelve or
 917 "24th.—We went this morning to see the tread-mill at six o'clock, at which time the prisoners sentenced to this punishment are put upon it previously to their being sent to the penal gang. Two mixed gangs of men and women were put upon it during our stay; the latter had no suitable dress, and were, therefore, liable to be indecently exposed. The lever, by which the speed of the wheel is regulated, was held the whole time by the driver, who sometimes relaxed his hold for a few seconds, which made it revolve with such rapidity as to throw all the prisoners off. It is thus evident that the punishment may be increased beyond endurance at his caprice. Nearly all the prisoners were dreadfully exhausted at the end of fifteen minutes. One of the prisoners told us he was sent because a cattle (a steer) died under his charge. We observed this morning, that not only was the floor sprinkled, and the steps stained, but the very drum of the mill was spotted with blood." "The workhouse was quite full this time, they hardly have enough collar and chain to put on all the people; they were obliged to take off the collar and chain from some of the life people (convicts for life) to put on the apprentice; and at night there was'nt enough shackle to fasten all the people, and hardly room enough for us all to lie down. There was a great many women in the workhouse, and several have sucking children; and there was one woman quite big with child, and 'them make her dance the mill too morning and evening; she not able to dance good; and them flog her; she complained about her stomach hurt her, and I see her several time go and beg the overseer not to work her on
 918 "Prisoners, on being brought into houses of correction, are immediately put in couples, by an iron collar round the neck of each, connected by a chain six feet long, and from three to four pounds weight; but men and women are chained separately, and in this manner they are sent to work on the public roads, men and women in the same gang, under the boatswain. The supervisor, or sometimes the boatswain, chains such prisoners together as he chooses, commonly two of unequal strength, to allow less chance of escape. I have thus sometimes found a convict for life chained to a boy on his first committal to prison, and in the same manner girls to old offenders." 919 "From the attachment of the people to their old locations, they must be reduced to the employer's own terms of wages, or be driven off the properties as vagrants. Then I beseech your Lordship to look to the provisions of the local Vagrant Act, unrepealed, 35 Car. II., c. 11. This act was introduced against the lawless soldiery of Governor Doyley; and many violent planters are now rejoicing in the power it gives of flogging free men from parish to parish; and there is an improvement in its penal powers by 32 George 3rd, c. 11, still unrepealed, which adds six months' hard labour in the house of correction. Your Lordship may bid me apply to the Legislature to repeal these frightful laws, but I should apply in vain; and in the midst of freedom we have still terrific engines of oppression and tyranny preparing for the emancipated population." 920 "Many instances of the masters destroying the crops of the negroes from wanton spite, have appeared in the police reports of the Jamaica papers. In no case, with perhaps a few exceptions, have the agreements for the taking of the houses been entered into for more than a quarter of a year, in order that the owners may have, as they freely admit, the means of turning the occupiers off the lands if they will not work. In other cases, they let them merely their houses and gardens, with the acknowledged object of accusing them of trespass, in case they plant provisions in die usual provision grounds, if they cease to labour regularly for the estate." 921
 Lord Stanley  said, that he should feel that he was indeed labouring tinder great difficulty, in following the bon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, if he were called upon to cope with him, either upon questions of abstract law, or upon questions where matters of law and of constitution were necessarily mingled. But, much as he admired and respected the high talents, and great constitutional acquirements of the hon. and learned Gentleman, or he should rather say, the more he admired and respected those high talents, and those eminent constitutional acquirements, the more was he grieved to see them in a British House of Commons, devoted to the ungracious, and, as he trusted, to the hopeless task of supporting a measure of this most arbitrary character, on the proverbial plea of all tyrants—namely, its imperious necessity. The hon. and learned Gentleman had taken the bill into his hand; but fearful of discussing it on the grounds on
 940 Lushington: 941 942 943 944 945 946 947 "Sir, I agree with my right hon. Friend, that there is a case of necessity for interfering on the subject of slavery, but as in my opinion the right of interference arises from the necessity of the case, so I think by that necessity it is limited. I think that we have a right to say to the Colonial Legislatures, 'You shall do full justice to all classes of the King's subjects:' but I do not think we have any right to prescribe the details of the laws by which the daily transactions of life in the colonies are to be regulated. Sir, if my right hon. Friend will attempt to carry into execution such an Act of Parliament as he has described, it must contain a clause abrogating every constitutional privilege at present possessed by the colonies. It must, indeed, be a case of extreme necessity which could justify such a course, and even the most extreme case would with difficulty overcome my almost invincible repugnance to its adoption. But does that necessity exist? I know, Sir, that we cannot trust the Colonial Assemblies to legislate for a state of things in which the right of the planters to the gratuitous services of the labouring population shall be continued. If we were so to trust them, whatever might be the nominal effect of the laws they might pass, in reality they would amount to nothing less than the maintenance of slavery as it now exists. But if we proceed upon a different principle, and declare that every man shall be alike entitled to the produce of his
 948 949 "Contemplating with lively gratitude to Divine Providence these results of the wise and generous policy of her royal predecessors, and of the Parliament and people of this kingdom, the Queen is deeply anxious that the approaching crisis of the experiment should be met by a deliberate foresight of the difficulties that must then occur, and by fitting preparations to avert them." "It will be necessary that a considerable revision of the colonial code should take place, in order to adapt the laws to the new state of affairs about to be established. This is the appropriate duty of the local Legislature, and it is highly important that it should be performed with great circumspection, and in such a manner as, if possible, to prevent the necessity of any collision between the Sovereign authority in this kingdom and the local authorities." "You will transmit those answers to me, accompanied by your own report as to the measures necessary for adapting the law to that state of society which will immediately follow on the close of the apprenticeship. It will then remain for Government to consider the measures which may be proper to be taken in those colonies which are subject to the government of the Queen and Council, and to be recommended to those which possess legislative assemblies." 950 "I have received information that in the island of Jamaica there is a tax called the poll-tax. Nothing can be more unjust than the principles on which it proceeds. That the rich and the poor should be taxed alike is so repugnant to the principles of English law, that I beg that it may be immediately altered." 951 "The principles of taxation," continued Lord Glenelg, "adopted in this country, are unequivocally opposed to the levying of a tax that presses upon rich and poor alike. I do not now enter on the large and arduous question how far the imposition of the tax may be justifiable when applied to the society of the British West Indies, for to engage in the discussion of this subject would compel me to diverge from many topics of great and immediate exigency." 952 953 954
 Lord J. Russell.  Mr. Speaker—if I were at all able to convey to the House the strong sense I feel of the impossibility that this question, vitally affecting as it does the interests of a large population inhabiting Jamaica, should be suffered any longer to remain unsettled, I have no doubt that the House would lend me its best attention while I state my opinions on the subject, as I should hope, that upon this question, a question which is so confined, and entirely local, and so important to Jamaica, I shall obtain the concurrence of the House. I must at the outset declare my dissent from some of the opinions of the noble Lord who spoke last (Lord Stanley). This has been argued as a question of political liberty. Now I must at once confess that my love of liberty is exactly similar to that which has sprung up, rather newly, I think, among hon. Gentlemen opposite. Considering that
 955 956 957 "Should there appear to be no probability, that the opposition which it met with from the Colonial Legislature would be withdrawn, the executive government would not hesitate coming down to Parliament for its assistance in overcoming its obstinate resistance. With regard to the clause abolishing the corporal punishment of females, he was sorry to say, that but five of the Colonial Legislatures had acceded to it, though he thought, that the adoption of it, was one of the plainest modes, that could have been devised for evincing their disposition to meet the wishes and re-
 958 "It was thought "said the noble Lord," that the friendly warning of Parliament would be sufficient to induce the colonists to attend to his wishes. That warning, however—that admonitory voice has gone forth, and for years, and years, has been, I am sorry to say, unheeded and disregarded by all the Colonial Legislatures. They have allowed it to be lost upon them; they have done nothing to further and accomplish that great measure, which the mother country eleven years ago declared to be so just and so desired. What will the committee think of the readiness of the Colonial Legislatures (I speak, God knows, not in bitterness, but in sorrow) when I say, that up to this hour no one colony has abolished the practice of inflicting corporal punishment upon females? They have, indeed, in some degree restrained it; but by restraining they recognise the principle. They have guarded against indecency, but they have not yet carried into effect, that which in all the nations of the world has been the first step towards civilization—the raising the female sex from a state of degradation to that of equality and a sense of delicacy. Talk of preparing the slave for freedom—of ripening his moral faculties, to render him capable of enjoying it, and yet show him, that all his dearest and domestic ties may be violated—that his wife, his daughter, or his sister may be subjected to corporal punishment at the pleasure of an overseer—it is a mockery and an insult!" "A much more serious breach not only of
 959 "The whipping of females, you were informed by me officially, was an illegal practice, and I called upon you to make enactments to put an end to conduct so repugnant to humanity, and so contrary to law." "The Act of Abolition forbade females being lashed for apprenticeship offences; that provision he regretted to tell their Lordships had been set at defiance; it had been scorned and contemned by the injustice and the revenge of the former masters of those unhappy slaves, and who did their Lordships suppose had been selected for the purpose of inflicting cruelty in the house of correction? Why, the class of men selected, were the very class that ought not to be chosen. They were convicts for life—men dead to all sense of honour or feeling, and of humanity. These were the men who did not refuse to apply the lash to females, and who entered into a vile combination with their employers to glut the evil passions of both. In spite of the law, females had had the lash applied to them for apprenticeship offences. This was a stain upon the Legislature." 960 "Jamaica is dependent on the Crown of England, and she admits the right of the English Parliament to regulate the commerce of the empire, but she rejects, with indignation, its claim to make other laws to govern her. We, therefore, conclude, that this island has of right, confirmed by time, usage, and law, an independent legislature; that by its authority alone can taxes or other burdens be imposed on the people of Jamaica, or its laws, when once sanctioned by the Sovereign, be repealed, or altered, or new laws be enacted." 961 962 963 964 "It appears a compact, but it is the shadow, not the substance, The Assembly of Jamaica have appeared to do what you desired them, but they have not, in fact, done anything of the sort." 965 "That they found first, that new laws were required to regulate the relations between employer and labourer, and landlord and tenant; that they were suffering severely from
 966 967
 Lord John Russell : Sir, I am sure the House has heard with great concern the announcement you have just made. It I were to consult my own feelings rather
 871
 Lord John Russell  stated, that they had met the managers appointed on the part of the House of Lords, to confer on the subject of the amendments moved by the House of Commons on the Deanery of Exeter Bill, and that he had received front the Lords their reasons for disagreeing to certain of those amendments. The noble Lord moved, that those reasons be printed, in order to their being taken into consideration.
 Mr. Maclean  was understood to say, he believed, that this was the first occasion in the annals of Parliament when an endeavour had been made to take away a constitution which had been in operation for 150 or 200 years, in the manner in which the right hon. Gentlemen opposite proposed to take away the constitution of Jamaica. It would be in the recollection of the House, that on a former occasion her Majesty's Ministers came down to Parliament for the purpose of suspending the constitution of Canada. They then proceeded in a different manner, and had taken a different, a remarkably different course, from that which they had thought it their duty to take on this occasion, for they had presented themselves to the House, requesting them first to pass a resolution. They had availed themselves of every form that Parliament admitted before they had resorted to the  ultima ratio 873 bonâ fide 874 "He could assure hon. Members opposite that nobody in that House could approve of English despotism less than he did. He knew enough of the character of English functionaries in the colonies. [Loud cheers from the Opposition benches.] Hon Members cheered before they heard the conclusion of the sentence. He repeated that he knew enough of colonial functionaries to be aware how unfit they generally were to administer affairs without the aid as well as the control of the people, and he did not believe a more corrupt Government could exist than one freed from the control of the people, and interfered with by factious and meddling persons." 875 876 "According to a letter in the State-paper office from Colonel (afterwards Sir Thomas) Modyford, dated Barbadoes, Feb. 16, 1651, addressed to Bradshaw the regicide, the following suggestions occur relative to the island sending representatives to Parliament. 'The great difficulty is (which your wisdom will easily overcome) how we shall have a representative with you in your Government and our Parliament. To demand to have burgesses with yours to sit and vote in matters concerning England, may seem immoderate, but to desire, that two representatives be chosen by this island to advise and consent in matters that concern this place, I presume may be both just and necessary; for if laws be imposed upon us without our personal or implied consent, we cannot be accounted better than slaves, which as all Englishmen abhor to see, so I am confident you detest to have them. This is so clear, that I shall not have need to enforce it with argument, neither enter upon particulars for the good of this place, &c." 877 878 "It was true the bill was said to be founded on necessity, but what was this? Was it not necessity which had always been the plea of every illegal exertion of power or exercise of oppression? Was not necessity the pretence of every usurpation? He had heard no particular reason offered in favour of this necessity, except that of destroying the corrupt influence which had been exerted by the Company and their servants in both Houses of Parliament. But surely, that was an argument against the principle of the bill, for if Government possessed themselves of this source of influence and corruption, it would no longer be the influence of a company, but that of the executive Government. He asked, was it not the principle and declared avowal of this bill, that the whole system of the Indian Government should be placed in seven persons and those under the immediate appointment of no other than the Minister himself.?" l. 879 880 "Their resolutions have been compared to the gagging acts of England, and the Coercion Bill of Ireland. I have never spoken with mildness of either; but, compared with the measure now before the House, they were of a less aggravated character of guilt, for this measure is not a mere suspension of personal immunities, but a cessation of constitutional rights. But this is a blow at constitutional
 881 "The legislative independence of Jamaica has ever been the pride of her English conquerors. They have received with joy their coloured fellow-colonists into equal participation of their valued liberty, and they were prepared to rejoice at the extension of the constitution to the emancipated blacks; but the British Government, by a great fault, if not a crime, has, at the moment when all should have been free, torn from the lately ascendant class the privileges which were their birthright; from another class, now the equals of the former, the rights they had long and fortunately struggled for; and from the emancipated blacks the rights which they fondly expected to enjoy with their personal
 882 l. 883 884 "—et incedis per ignes "Suppositos cineri doloso," 885 inter se pugnantia, 886
 Mr. Grote said : If, Sir, I could bring myself to agree with the hon. Member for Warwickshire regarding the present bill, as depending upon a question of comparative sympathy between the blacks of Jamaica on one side, considered as an oppressed race, and the whites of Jamaica considered as oppressors, I should agree with him in my vote this evening; for I
 888 889 890 891 892 893 894 895 896
 Mr. Goulburn  said, it was certainly surprising that of all those hon. Members who had defended the measure which had been brought forward by the Government, scarcely one had advocated its enactments upon the grounds on which it had been proposed and supported by the Members of the administration. The hon. Member for Liskeard had told them, that the provisions of the Bill had no connexion with the preamble, and on that ground was prepared almost to throw it overboard; while the hon. Member for Bridport found
 903 904 905 906 907 "They are unanimously of opinion, that the interference of the Imperial Parliament, as regards the arrangement and control of prisons within this colony, is a measure as unnecessary to the attainment of its objects as it appears harsh and distrustful towards the legislature of the colony, which in all its recent enactments connected with the improvement of its civil government, has, with the utmost sincerity, endeavoured to adapt its laws to those of Great Britain, as far as the state of society and its circumstances would permit." "With an anxious desire of the Barbadoe Legislature to improve the civil government of the colony, it cannot but be painful to the feelings of its members to observe with what an ungracious spirit, and in the absence o any specific charge of defective or contuma-
 908 909 910 911 912 l. "Whereas it is expedient to extend the elective franchise in the island to many of his Majesty's subjects who have not heretofore enjoyed the same, be it enacted by the Governor, Council, and Assembly, that every person of full age, and not subject to any legal incapacity, (applying, therefore, to the white, the black, and the coloured population in the island) and who shall be liable to pay taxes and parochial rates in any parish to the amount of 5 l. l. 913
 Mr. H. Gaily Knight : Sir, I never was more surprised than by the speech of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. Could it be the speech of the hon. Member for Bridport — of the champion of liberty in its most extensive form? Had my eyes been shut I should have thought I was listening to an advocate of despotic principles. Nor was I much less surprised at the speech of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Warwickshire, who told us that he felt himself compelled to support the bill before the House, lest the tree of liberty so recently planted should be cut down. The hon. Baronet is anxious for the growth of the tree of liberty, and for that reason, advocates the subversion of constitutions, and the establishment of arbitrary power. For my own part, I feel myself compelled to oppose this bill, because I think the suspension of constitution after constitution is anything but satisfactory, and because it does not appear to me that, on the present occasion, the last resource of imperial severity is justified by the necessity of the case. My right hon. Friend, the Colonial Secretary, in introducing this bill, very properly expressed a wish that we would consider this subject in a comprehensive point of view. But I think we shall not be attending to his recommendation unless we extend our observation to the spirit and the temper in which Jamaica has been governed for some time past; and, if we do so extend our observation, I fear we shall find that, to that spirit and that temper must chiefly be attributed the resistance of the House of Assembly, and the present calamitous condition of that unfortunate island. It has been a repetition of the old story of governing in a party spirit, of leaning altogether to one side, and driving the other to despair, whilst, as it appears to me, the especial duty of a supreme Government is firmly and impartially to hold the balance between conflicting interests, to assign to each its fair advantage, and keep each in its proper place. I was the sincere friend of emancipation. I considered that measure, coupled as it was with compensation, as one of the most
 900 901 902
 Mr. Warburton  said, that in consequence of the great authority in matters connected with the liberty of the subject, which very properly belonged to his hon. Friend, the Member for London, he was anxious to say a few words upon this
 898 l. 899
 The Speaker  rose and said, before I proceed to the Order of the Day, I must respectfully request that I may be permitted to make a communication to the House, of which it ought to he informed. Experience admonishes me that I have no longer strength to enable me to meet as I have done heretofore the fatigue and labour which are inseparable from the discharge of the duties of the station in which I have the honour to be placed. I have, therefore, come to the determination not to resume my seat in the chair after the recess at Whitsuntide. I have adopted the course of making this communication to the House, because it will afford to the House an opportunity of deliberating on the choice of a Speaker, and will afford the least obstruction to the progress of public business. As I propose to continue in the discharge of my present duties until Whitsuntide, I do trust that the House will be of opinion that I am acting with propriety in now limiting my observations to the simple announcement of the fact of my intended resignation.
 Sir S. Lushington  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down had characterised this bill either as a penal measure, or as one of general policy. Now, as he (Dr. Lushington) was not disposed to abide by the classification of the hon. Member, he would take his own ground, and state the reasons which induced him to support this bill. He supported it on the ground of its imperious necessity—for the purpose of doing justice and affording protection to 300,000 British subjects; because he in his conscience believed that the continuance of the present state, he would not say of law, but of misrule and disorder, was as destructive to the great commercial and agricultural interests embarked in that island as he knew it to be injurious to the peace, happiness, and comfort of that colony. What he wanted for those subjects was, equal laws, protection to their property, encouragement to industry, security for their acquisitions, and above all, what the hon. Gentleman who spoke last had not touched upon—an easy and effectual mode of obtaining payment of their wages. That the British Parliament had never parted, directly or indirectly, with the power of
 934 onus 935 "Until her Most Gracious Majesty's pleasure shall be made known, whether her subjects of Jamaica, now happily all in a state of freedom, are henceforth to be treated as subjects with the power of making laws, as hitherto, for their own government, or whether they are to be treated as a conquered colony, and governed by parliamentary legislation, order in council, or as," mark these words, "in the case of the late amended Abolition Act, by investing tile Governor of the island with the arbitrary power of issuing proclamations having the force of law over the lives and properties of the people." 936 "In regard to the whipping of females, you have been informed by me officially, that such a practice prevails, and I called upon you to make an enactment to prevent conduct so repugnant to humanity and contrary to law. So far from passing an act to prevent the recurrence of such cruelty, you did not even express your disapprobation of it." "We arc unfortunately without any wholesome laws to protect the fair rights of toasters and servants and have all the evils
 937 "We, therefore, the Members of the Assembly," they say, "do for ourselves, and for the people of Jamaica, solemnly before God and man, and especially before our fellow subjects, and fellow colonists, protest against an act passed by the British Parliament, entitled 'An Act to amend the Act for the abolition of slavery in the British colonies.' We protest against the proclamation of the Governor dated the 1st of June, 1838, which declares the said act to be in force in the island. We declare the said act and proclamation to be illegal, unconstitutional, and an usurpation of our legislative rights, and of the rights of our constituents; we declare them to be subversive of English law, threatening to the peace of this and our sister colonies, and dangerous to the integrity of the empire." 938 "I do not believe the charge. The Baptist missionaries have dared their calumniators over and over again to the proof; and I ask whether a single individual has yet dared to come forward to specify a single instance of any improper interference on their part." 939
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that it had to him been matter of much regret to hear the noble Lord opposite declare, that the Government could not assent to the proposition of his right hon. Friend. Whatever difference of opinion might exist as to the merits of this bill, the House must be pretty unanimously agreed upon this point, that the bill, for all practical purposes, was already defunct. They must also admit it to be sound in principle and judicious in practice, that an extreme course like that which was proposed, could only be called into action advantageously by an united Legislature. The division of opinion in that House was known to be such, that it was hard to say whether the bill would ever reach a further stage. His right hon. Friend opposite, when he spoke in behalf of the Government measure, had taunted the right hon. Baronet with having made this a party question. He was, therefore, not a little surprised to hear the hon. Baronet, the Member for Warwickshire, declare, that he would vote against the right hon. Baronet's proposition, "because he had declared, that this was not a party question." It was rather hard that his right hon. Friend should have his supporters voting against him, because he did not make this a party question, and should be taunted by hon. Members opposite with having so made it. Who, he asked, had made this a party question? Why, the noble Lord opposite, when, for a particular purpose, he introduced a bill which he knew could not be brought into active operation. Why expose the division which prevailed in that House in the face of the colonies? Why exhibit the British Parliament in a
 922 923 924 925 926 "Whereas it is expedient to make further
 927 928 929 930 l. l. l. 931 "I believe that when apprenticeship shall be abolished, or at all events, at the very furthest, in one or two years after, when the elective franchise will be exercised by a large number of persons, they will become proprietors of land, and, as the qualification is extremely low, amounting in towns to somewhat like universal suffrage, the negro population will have ample opportunity of protecting themselves." "In the large towns where the elective franchise is in the hands of blacks and coloured persons, there is a much better state of feeling than previously existed; the parties are necessary to each other, and by the independence attached to political control have learned to respect, instead of despising and hating, each other." 932 933
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  said, it appeared to him that the hon. Member who had just sat down had used more the arguments of an advocate than of a legislator; for the hon. Member seemed to have touched upon every case but the one which was really before the House. He had taken rather a prominent part in the proceedings of the House with respect to the slavery question, and he hoped, therefore, he should be indulged with a few moments' attention whilst he stated his reasons for the vote which he intended to give in favour of the motion now before the House. They had given the negro liberty, and why, then, he would ask, should they, for the contumacy of certain individuals, continue him in a state of slavery? He felt deeply that this was the true question before the House; and, with the principles and feelings which he had on this subject, he felt bound to explain the reasons of his determining to vote for the motion. In order to do so, he wished just to call the attention of the House to the circumstances that had occurred since the year 1833, when the Bill for the Emancipation of the Slaves was first brought in. At that time the noble Lord who brought it in distinctly stated, that he wished to place the negroes in exactly the same situation as free labourers in England, and thought that would be best effected by some system of apprenticeship. It was very soon discovered, however, that the great powers in Jamaica were opposed to those
 887
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, as the noble Lord has declared that, out of consideration for your feelings, he has laid a restraint upon the expression of his own, I feel myself almost compelled to follow the example he has set. But, Sir, as my situation is not altogether the same with that of the noble Lord, as on your first proposal to the chair, you had the cordial support of the noble Lord, and as it was my painful duty to give a vote to the other candidate, I may, perhaps, be justified in so far departing from the example which the noble Lord has set, as to offer my public testimony to the integrity and impartiality with which you, Sir, have discharged your duties in presiding over the deliberations of this House, and to declare, that I think, that not only on account of your discharge of the duties of the chair, but on account of your persevering efforts to improve the conduct of private business, you are entitled to the expression of public gratitude.
 Mr. Clay  had listened to the observations of his hon. Friend, the Member for London, with all the respect which they so well deserved, but also with regret that his hon. Friend had arrived at a conclusion in which he could not concur, and with somewhat of surprise at the reasoning by which his hon. Friend had arrived at that conclusion, He (Mr. Clay) could not
 897
 Lord John Russell :—Sir, I wish to make a communication to the House, in consequence of what took place last night on the motion of the right hon. Baronet opposite, for the rejection of the Bill to provide for the government of Jamaica. Sir, it will be evident to this House, that that was a bill requiring more than ordinary support—more than ordinary confidence—and that it has met with less support and less confidence on the part of this House than that which has usually been given to her Majesty's Ministers. It has, therefore, become their duty to consider in what position they are placed with respect to that bill. It would undoubtedly be in their power to proceed to another stage of that bill, and again to ask the opinion of the House on the question; but we see no reason to suppose that the judgment of the House, upon a second trial, would be different from that which it has already declared. We might, likewise, with the support of the majority no greater than that received last night, send the bill to the House of Lords, and leave it to the House of Lords to deal with it as they should think proper. But this course, Sir, upon a bill which certainly vests in the Government here, and the governor and council of Jamaica unusual powers, would have the appearance of throwing upon the House of Lords a responsibility, which we do not think that we are fairly entitled to throw upon them, after the vote which has been come to in the House of Commons. It therefore seems to us, that there is no option but to give up the bill which we thought it our duty to bring forward. It is, then, a question whether, having brought forward a bill of that importance, we shall leave the state of affairs in Jamaica, in the West-India colonies, and in our colonies generally, in that state in which the ministers of the Crown ought not to be content
 977 978
 Mr. W. Duncombe  wished to know whether the noble Lord would have any
 1003
 Mr. W. Duncombe  said the noble Lord had not stated why the House should not meet to-morrow.
 Lord John Russell : The House might meet to-morrow if they wished it.
 Lord J. Russell  replied that he certainly did not think that the course he had proposed was very unusal, although there were circumstances which would have justified him in asking for a longer adjournment. He believed that former adjournments had been for ten days. The Thursday in Whitsunweek was the Queen's birth day, therefore he would not propose that the House should adjourn to that day. As to the other question of the hon. Gentleman, he believed that it was necessary to have a message from the Crown, but if there were no objection to the election of Speaker on that day, it would take place on the Friday after the adjournment.
 Lord J. Russell : It will be as well that I should state, although it certainly is not necessary, but it may be satisfactory to the right hon. Baronet, that for my own part I have nothing to complain of in the statement he has made.
 Lord J. Russell : I feel, on addressing the House on this occasion, most peculiarly that difficulty to which the right hon. Gentleman has adverted—namely, that he has been obliged to give explanations with reference to conversations held with her Majesty (for the letter which he has read is, in fact, a summary of his impressions with regard to those conversations), and that he is the only person who in Parliament can state what passed on those occasions. I am, therefore, rejoiced to find, that the right hon. Gentleman has avoided, as much as possible, all allusion to particular parts of conversation, and that al-
 992 993 994 "In In the interview with which your Majesty honoured Sir Robert Peel yesterday morning, after he had submitted to your Majesty the names of those whom he proposed to recommend to your Majesty for the principle executive appointments, he mentioned to your Majesty his earnest wish to be enabled, with your Majesty's sanction, so to constitute your Majesty's household, that your Majesty's condential servants might have the advantage of a public demonstration of your Majesty's full support and confidence, and that, at the same time, as far as possible, consistently with that demonstration, each individual appointment in the household should be entirely acceptable to your Majesty's personal feelings." Robert Peel "On your Majesty's expressing a desire, that the Earl of Liverpool should hold an office in the household, Sir Robert Peel requested your Majesty's permission at once to offer to Lord Liverpool the office of Lord Steward, or any other which he might prefer." 995 "Sir Robert Peel then observed, that he should have every wish to apply a similar principle to the chief appointments, which are filled by the ladies of your Majesty's household; upon which your Majesty was pleased to remark, that you must reserve the whole of those appointments, and that it was your Majesty's pleasure, that the whole should continue as at present, without any change." "The Duke of Wellington, in the interview to which your Majesty subsequently admitted him, understood also that this was your Majesty's determination, and concurred with Sir Robert Peel in opinion that, considering the great difficulties of the present crisis, and the expediency of making every effort, in the first instance, to conduct the public business of the country with the aid of the present Parliament, it was essential to the success of the commission with which your Majesty had honoured Sir Robert Peel, that he should have that public proof of your Majesty's entire support and confidence which would be afforded by the permission to make some changes in that part of your Majesty's household which your Majesty resolved on maintaining entirely without change." 996 "The Queen having considered the proposal made to her by Sir Robert Peel, to remove the ladies of her bedchamber, cannot consent to adopt a course which she conceives to be contrary to usage, and which is repugnant to her feelings." 997 998 999 1000 1001 "Her Majesty's confidential servants having taken into consideration the letter addressed by her Majesty to Sir Robert Peel on the 10th of May, and the reply of Sir Robert Peel of the same day, are of opinion that, for the purpose of giving to the Administration that character of efficiency and stability, and those marks of the constitutional support of the Crown, which are required to enable it to act usefully to the public service, it is reasonable that the great officers of the Court, and situations in the household held by Members of Parliament, should be included in the political arrangements made in a change of the Administration; but they are not of opinion that a similar principle should be applied or extended to the offices held by ladies in her Majesty's household." 1002 Cheers and laughter.
 Lord John Russell : Mr. Speaker since I last had the honour of addressing this House, the right hon. Gentleman opposite received from her Majesty authority to form the plan for a new administration, to be submitted for her Majesty's approval. The attempt of the right hon. Gentleman to form an administration having failed, her Majesty has been graciously pleased to permit the right hon. Gentleman to state the circumstances which led to that failure. What I propose now, therefore, is, that the right hon. Gentleman should state to the House what he may think it necessary to state, in pursuance of the permission thus granted to him by her Majesty, and I will then inform the House of the reasons which have induced her Majesty's advisers to resume the offices which I declared on the former occasion they had resigned into her hands. The course which I now propose to take, is to move that the House on its rising this evening do adjourn to Wednesday next, giving notice that when it meets on that day, I shall move that, on its rising it adjourn till Friday se'night, for the Whitsuntide Holidays.
 Lord John Russell  had no objection to to the House meeting to-morrow on the understanding that it met only for private business; but as matters of considerable importance required the deliberate attention of the Government, he should not be present to answer any questions.
 Sir Robert Peel  spoke as follows:* Mr. Speaker, I have reserved for this place, and for this occasion, the explanations which feel it my duty to offer with regard to the circumstances which have induced me to relinquish the attempt to form an administration for the conduct of the public service. Sir, I need scarcely say that I disclaim any sanction for any other statements which may have appeared of these circumstances; that for them I am wholly irresponsible; and that they have been made without my authority, and contrary to my wishes, if those wishes could have prevailed. * From a corrected report. 980 "South. Street, May 12, 1839. "Lord Melbourne presents his compliments to Sir Robert Peel, and having already, in expectation of such a request, taken her Majesty's pleasure upon the subject, feels himself authorised at once to signify to Sir Robert Peel her Majesty's full permission to explain the circumstances under which he recently relinquished the attempt to form an Administration; and, with that view, to make use of the correspondence with her Majesty which took place on the 10th of May." 981 982 
 
 Duke of Wellington, Lord Stanley, 
 Lord Lyndhurst, Sir James Graham, 
 Earl of Aberdeen, Sir Henry Hardinge, 
 Lord Ellenborough, Mr. Goulburn. 983 984 985 "Buckingham Palace, May 10, 1839. "The Queen, having considered the proposal made to her yesterday by Sir Robert Peel, to remove the Ladies of her Bedchamber, cannot consent to adopt a course which she conceives to be contrary to usage, and which is repugnant to her feelings." "Whitehall, May 10, 1839. "Sir Robert Peel presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has had the honour of receiving your Majesty's note of this morning. "In respectfully submitting to your Majesty's pleasure, and humbly returning into your Majesty's hands the important trust which your Majesty had been graciously pleased to commit to him, Sir Robert Peel trusts that your Majesty will permit him to state to your Majesty his impression with respect to the circumstances which have led to the termination of his attempt to form an Administration for the conduct of your Majesty's service. "In the interview with which your Majesty honoured Sir Robert Peel yesterday morning, after he had submitted to your Majesty the names of those whom he proposed to recommend to your Majesty for the principal executive appointments, be mentioned to your Majesty his earnest wish to be enabled, with your Majesty's sanction, so to constitute your Majesty's household that your Majesty's confidential servants might have the advantage of a public demonstration of your Majesty's full support and confidence; and that at the same time, as far as possible consistently with that demonstration, each individual appointment in the household should be entirely acceptable to your Majesty's personal feelings. "On your Majesty's expressing a desire that the Earl of Liverpool should hold an office in the household, Sir Robert Peel requested your Majesty's permission at once to offer to Lord Liverpool the office of Lord Steward, or any other which he might prefer. "Sir Robert Peel then observed, that he should have every wish to apply a similar principle to the chief appointments which are filled by the Ladies of your Majesty's household; upon which your Majesty was pleased to remark, that you must reserve the whole of those appointments, and that it was your Majesty's pleasure that the whole should continue as at present, without any change. "The Duke of Wellington, in the interview to which your Majesty subsequently admitted him, understood also that this was your Majesty's determination, and concurred with Sir Robert Peel in opinion that, considering the great difficulties of the present crisis, and the expedi-
 986 "Having had the opportunity, through your Majesty's gracious consideration, of reflecting upon this point, he humbly submits to your Majesty that he is reluctantly compelled, by a sense of public duty, and of the interest of your Majesty's service, to adhere to the opinion which he ventured to express to your Majesty. "He trusts he may be permitted at the same time to express to your Majesty his grateful acknowledgments for the distinction which your Majesty conferred upon him, by requiring his advice and assistance in the attempt to form an administration, and his earnest prayers that whatever arrangements your Majesty may be enabled to make for that purpose, may be most conducive to your Majesty's personal comfort and happiness, and to the promotion of the public welfare." 987 988 989 Ironical Cheers. 990 991
 Sir Robert Peel : I can assure the noble Lord that he has relieved me from the greatest load of anxiety I ever suffered under during my whole life; I was so fearful that in the statement I might make upon this subject I should appear in the slightest manner to do injustice to my Sovereign. Notwithstanding some of the observations made by the noble Lord, I think there is so important difference in the statements we have made. Under these circumstances, although the noble Lord has invited me to enter into any further explanation I might think fit, I very much doubt whether upon the whole it would not be better to let the matter rest where it is. I think it will be more respectful to her Majesty. I will reply only to one point. The noble Lord inquired of me whether her Majesty did not state to me that it was her intention to act towards me with openness and fairness. Her Majesty certainly did state that I should find her act with perfect openness and fairness, and I thought I had conveyed my impression upon that point when I stated that nothing could be more becoming or more constitutional than the whole of her Majesty's conduct. Let me now, however, distinctly declare that her Majesty did treat me throughout with perfect openness and frankness.
 Sir Robert Peel  earnestly entreated that no objection should be made to the course proposed; but he would suggest whether, as private business was very pressing, the Muse might not meet to forward private bills, on the distinct understanding that nothing else should be proceeded with.
 Mr. Attwood  wished to know whether he understood the noble Lord right, when he supposed him to say that it was the intention of the Government to introduce further penal enactments. [ No, no.
 Lord John Russell  thought it might be necessary to take some measures for the restriction of that which was an abuse of the rights secured by the Bill of Rights. It was, undoubtedly, true that every person had a right to have arms in his own defence; but the arming of a portion of the population, exhibiting and brandishing those arms to the terror and alarm of her Majesty's subjects, was an abuse of the right, and one which it might be necessary to meet by legislative enactment. The hon. Member said he did not believe there was any arming to any considerable extent. Certainly the information which be (Lord J. Russell) had from the town which the hon. Member represented, and other towns, would lead him to suppose there had been no very considerable quantity of arms made by the regular manufacturers, and the chief part of the sale which had taken place had been for exportation. But there had been wea-
 1028
 Lord John Russell  rose for the purpose of moving that this House should, at its rising, adjourn till Monday, the 27th of May, and should the Speaker, to the great regret of the House, persist in his resolution of not resuming the Chair after the holidays, he should on that day communicate to the House the pleasure of the Crown on that subject; and in order that the House might immediately proceed to the election of a Speaker, he should move that they meet on that day at half-past three. There was only one other subject on which he should address the House—that was with regard to the subject of Jamaica; he should not at present state what course the Ministers of the Crown were prepared to pursue. But he wished to state, that on Thursday, the 30th of May, either his right hon. Friend, the under Secretary for the Colonies, or himself, would bring forward a motion on the affairs of Jamaica; and until that motion had been taken into consideration, he should not propose any further proceedings upon the bill then before the House.
 Lord John Russell  had to state that throughout the period alluded to, which had been a most anxious one, the Government had not been unmindful of what was going on; but he had thought that it was better to rely on the existing law than to come down to that House for other measures, without a positive and imperious necessity for doing so, because the objects of the persons influencing the minds of the people, and inciting them to arm, were so clearly mischievous—so many of their acts so clearly exposed them to the penalties of the law, that it was impossible that they could meet with any general sympathy. He had always found, however, that when extraordinary measures were taken in Parliament in such a case, a sympathy was created, and a jealousy excited with regard to the constitution, which ought not to be suspended without absolute necessity. Still he was not prepared to say, that it might not be necessary to propose some measure to Parliament with regard to arms in the hands of evil-disposed persons. He was of opinion, however, that when the necessity arose it would be far better to introduce the measure at once, and to ask Parliament to direct its immediate and unceasing attention to the subject, than to give a long notice with respect to it; or, after having brought it forward, to postpone its further consideration for a considerable time. With regard to the measures already taken, he must say that on two occasions, when her Majesty's Ministers had advised her Majesty to issue proclamations regarding meetings of an illegal character, meetings held by night with torches under circumstances of danger and terror, and meetings which were attended by persons having pikes and bludgeons, each time those proclamations were issued the most salutary effects had been produced. He felt most undoubtedly that the responsibility was very great in taking measures to arrest, and if possible to repress, the disposition to disturbance that had been exhibited. The subject had been a frequent matter of consultation between himself and the Attorney-general, and he had likewise frequently brought the question before the Cabinet; and it appeared to him that the course adopted, and the views taken with respect to the general state of the country, were more likely ultimately to produce a return to peace, than if the Government had at once proposed measures of an extraordinary description.
 Mr. Labouchere  regretted he had not been previously apprised of the question. As the question was one of the greatest public importance, and which had caused a great degree of excitement in Canada and the United States, and as great exaggeration and misrepresentation existed, he trusted the House would allow him to state exactly what the facts were. The House would recollect that in the month of December last, the province of Upper Canada was invaded by 400 armed men from America, who committed the greatest excesses within the colony. They began by shooting and setting fire to the houses of the peaceable inhabitants. They committed barbarities and atrocities which would have disgraced, not only Christians, but the most savage race. The persons whom they killed they mangled in the most cruel and shocking manner. Such was the conduct of that body of men which the militia of Upper Canada, under the orders of Colonel Prince, turned out to oppose. After a short time the invaders were defeated and the outrages suppressed. After describing the events of the action, Colonel Prince said, in his letter to the Governor, that four prisoners were brought in and shot by his orders. Besides this statement, a representation was made and signed by a considerable number of the inhabitants, adding that they were put to death with many circumstances of great inhumanity. The consequence was, that the Lieutenant-Governor referred the whole subject to a court of inquiry, presided over by officers of the regular army. The result of that inquiry was, that all the circumstances of aggravation and inhumanity had been disproved; and it was further proved, that these imputations were not only false, but founded upon personal towards Colonel Prince. The fact, however, remained undisputed, that Colonel Prince did, after the engagement, order four persons to be summarily put to death. He would not enter into the question which had been raised, whether it was strictly legal that persons who had committed such atrocious acts, who had invaded a friendly territory, were or were not beyond the pale of the laws which regulate the wars of civil nations. But this he was prepared to say, having stated these circumstances of palliation, which might be justly urged, that not one word of defence or justification of such conduct should ever pass his lips. He deeply regretted that such an event should have happened, and he
 1024
 Mr. Labouchere  was not prepared to lay those papers before the House.
 The Speaker  then rose, and said: As this is the last occasion on which I shall have the honour of presiding over the deliberations of this House, I cannot retire without expressing my most grateful acknowledgments for the kindness and support which have been so generally afforded to me, and which have sustained me in the discharge of my duties. 1025
 Mr. Hume  merely asked whether the papers detailing this transaction would be laid before the House, as it was a transaction not only affecting the honour of the army, but which had produced an intense sensation throughout the United States.
 Mr. Hume  begged to ask whether any answer had been received as to an inquiry into the conduct of Colonel Prince, who was reported to have shot some prisoners in Canada?
 Mr. Hume  believed, that the agitation which now existed had been caused by a few individuals, and that the bulk of those who had assembled had been mislead. He trusted that it would be found that a great deal of the alarm which existed had been exaggerated. But it was the duty of the noble Lord and his colleagues to consider, whether the masses and the millions of the country had not just ground of complaint, and to endeavour to remove it. That would be a more likely way to prevent these evils than having recourse to any modification of the laws now in existence.
 Sir H. Verney  wished, in reference to the subject which the noble Lord had now brought forward, to ask whether it was his intention in the course of the present session to introduce any measure for the establishment of a more effective rural police? He thought such a measure would be calculated to give great satisfaction to the country.
  Mr. Williams Wynn  could not help expressing his surprise that so long an adjournment of the House should be proposed while the internal state of the country was so agitated. Six months had now elapsed since certain parties had recommended the people generally to procure arms. They knew that in different parts of the country those recommendations had been carried into effect, that fire arms had been provided, and that pikes had been made to a very great extent. Up to the present moment, they were publicly sold, and no steps had been taken to put an end to it. He had hoped that before that time the noble Lord who was charged with the care of internal affairs would have brought forward some measure on the subject, or, at all events, that he would have stated what the feelings of Government were upon the matter. Deadly weapons had been provided by a large number of people in the country, and it was no wonder that special constables should show some reluctance in the discharge of their duties, they being armed only with the weapon provided by law for a constable. He was not afraid of the ultimate success of the parties who were misleading the people. What he was afraid of was, that if this arming continued unchecked, it would lead to a lamentable degree of bloodshed. In his opinion the House was not doing its duty by consenting to such a long adjournment without taking some measures for strengthening the hands of the magis-
 1026
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  said, the House has received with so much favour the proposition of my Friends near me, that I feel relieved from much of that embarrassment which every individual must feel who addresses the House on a matter relating personally to himself. But, notwithstanding this encouragement and the eulogies which have been pronounced upon me, by my hon. Friends (for whose kindness on this occasion I never can feel sufficiently
 1047 1048
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  was then led to the Chair by Mr. Handley and Sir Stephen Lushington, when he addressed the House to the following effect: I venture to offer my sincere and heartfelt acknowledgments for the distinguished honour you have conferred upon me. I wish your election had fallen on an individual more worthy of the honour; but I assure you I will endeavour by an honest and impartial discharge of my duties to deserve the high distinction I have received at your hands.
 Mr. W. Duncombe,  said, that it was his intention to give his cordial support to the motion which had just been seconded by the hon. Member who last addressed the House. He did not think that the merits of his right hon. Friend had been exaggerated. On the contrary he thought they had been under-rated. He had risen for the purpose of adverting to one point noticed by the hon. Member for Lincolnshire, and of concurring with him in the expression of his regret that the election of the Speaker of that House should be made a party question, and that it should have been made so, not only on the present, but on a former occasion, when the late Speaker was from party motives proposed in opposition to Lord Canterbury. He regretted also that on this occasion there should have been more of party than there need have been. He had no wish to say one word in disparagement of the merits of the hon. Member for North Hants. On the contrary, he agreed in all the encomiums that had been passed on him; but he did think that in putting him forward the Government had unfairly passed over the superior claims of another hon. Member at the same side of the House—he alluded to the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. Bernal), who for many years had filled
 1046
 Lord John Russell : I rise, Sir, to congratulate you upon the distinguished honour which you have received from the House. I am sure it will be quite unnecessary, after the debate which has just taken place, and after your long experience of the business of the House, that I should say anything either of the arduous nature of the duties to be performed, or of the distinguished honour which any one must acquire by performing those duties to the satisfaction of this House. I shall, therefore, only say that I perceived with very great pleasure during the debate which took place, that there was a disposition on both sides to give every credit to the qualifications of the two Members of this House who were proposed, and that there was nothing in the course of the debate from those who proposed you, Sir, or from those who proposed the right hon. Gentleman opposite, which could create an unpleasant feeling with regard to that competition; and I am sure, from what the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge, said, and which respect for his character induces me implicitly to believe, that he would be one of the foremost to support the privileges of the House, though the choice might not fall on him, that he, as well as those who voted for him, will make good that promise, and that you will receive, not only from those who support your election, but from the whole of the House, that support and unanimous concurrence by which alone in the difficult circumstances in which a Speaker is placed, he can hope to succeed in preserving order, and carrying properly into effect the important duties confided to him.
 1056
 Mr. Goulburn : I am not ashamed to say that I rise to address the House with a few observations with which I shall trouble them under feelings of considerable embarrassment, because on the one hand, I cannot but entertain a fear lest I should in any manner appear insensible to the honour which has been proposed to me; and on the other, lest I should be thought capable of arrogating as my due the lavish praise which has been expressed with regard to me through the kindness of my friends. I certainly have had the advantage of long Parliamentary experience. I have had the honour of witnessing the elevation to that Chair, of Mr. Abbott, of Mr. Manners Sutton, and of the right hon. Gentleman whose secession we all lamented; and, I am well aware, from the observation I have had the opportunity of making, how important the duties are that attach to the Speaker of the House of Commons. I know, in common with my hon. Friend opposite, that at the present moment—from the greater complication of the national interests—from the increased pressure of both public and private business—from the greater attention which the people are in the habit of paying to the proceedings of this House—and above all, from the nicely balanced state of political opinions and interests—the difficulties which ordin-
 1049
 Mr. Handley  said, that on the occasion of rising to propose for the approbation of the House the name of an hon. Member who should fill the Chair, although he was precluded by ordinary usage from dwelling upon the loss which the House had sus-
 1035 1036 1037 1038
 Mr. Wilson Patten  rose to second the motion. In the present instance, he felt very considerably relieved from the responsibility of his position, both by the character of the right hon. Gentleman, whose nomination he had the honour to second, and also by the character of the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. If his right hon. Friend (Mr. Goulburn) were less known than he was in that House and by the country generally, he (Mr. W. Patten) should think the very circumstance of his having been selected to fill the office of Speaker by the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montgomery shire, would be a sufficient guarantee that he was fit for the office. The right hon. Gentleman had paid such constant attention to these particular points, had been so attentive to the privileges of that House, and had also been so high an authority on
 1044 1045
 Sir S. Lushington,  in seconding the motion of the hon. Gentleman, prayed that the House would, for a brief space, give him their attention; for he could assure them, that he had not been anxious voluntarily to have come forward to claim their attention; but, at the same time, he must say, he trusted, that whenever his services were called for by a Friend, with whom his political sentiments concurred, he should never be loth to exert himself. His hon. Friend had adverted to the excellent qualities of their late Speaker; and he, as one of the late Speaker's oldest friends, might beg leave to express his full concurrence in what his bon. Friend had said of the right hon. Gentleman's retirement, as well as express his own regret at that retirement, and at the cause of it. But he could not forget how honourably that House had distinguished the services of the right hon. Gentleman who had recently occupied the Speaker's Chair, and more especially, he might add, the high encomiums which the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Tamworth, so much to his own honour, and to the honour of the late Speaker, had pronounced on his conduct and impartiality; and it was not an unimportant topic on the present occasion, because it showed to them that which, he was thankful to say, had frequently occurred before, that whatever might be the political bias of the individual, before he was elevated to the high rank of Speaker of the House of Commons, when once placed in that Chair, he had had the courage to divest himself of all party bias. He conceived that it would be a great want of good taste in him, if he, who knew so well that there were persons of superior talent and eloquence to himself in that House, more able to enter into the subject, were to describe the various qualifications necessary to enable a member to fill the Chair—if he, recollecting the speeches which had been made on this question, and, knowing how familiar to the House the whole subject was, were to enter into any enumeration of those qualifications. It would be an useless waste of the time of the House. But it did appear to him, that they were now standing in a peculiar crisis, and when a greater union of the qualities re-
 1039 1040
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had seconded the nomination, and the hon. Member who had proposed the Speaker, had differed very considerably in their sentiments. One had protested against this vote being a political one, to its being necessary to an Administration, or to any Minister, in order to prove the concurrence of the House; the seconder, on the other band, had stated distinctly to the House that he considered this was a political vote, which ought to be governed by their political feelings upon the question between those who were for carrying further the measures of reform which he had adopted, and those who preferred supporting other systems. He agreed most entirely with what both said of the importance of the election; wherein they agreed together, lie agreed with them; and he believed that the present was a
 1041 1042 1043
 Mr. Lovibond  accordingly read from a written paper which he held in his hand a statement, in which he alleged that he had been retained as a solicitor to oppose the bill, and that the retainer was signed by all the parties whose names were appended to the petition which he had presented. On the 7th of March he arrived
 1070
 Mr. Lovibond  was then ordered to withdraw, and withdrew accordingly. l. 1071
 Mr. Benjamin  Lovibond was then brought to the Bar of the House, and
 Mr. Jones  said, he had always been opposed to the House acting as jury and judge in their own matters; but when a contempt like the present had been committed—a contempt by which the jurisdiction and rules of the House had been violated—it must be punished summarily if it was to be punished at all. Looking at the nature of this offence, he was prepared to agree to the motion for the committal of this Gentleman to the custody of the Sergeant.
 Mr. Miles  said, that the individual who had appeared at the bar had applied to him to undertake the opposition to the bill, and had stated, that he had a petition signed by 2,000 persons of the first weight and respectability. He (Mr. Miles) was engaged on other matters, but recommended him to put the petition of such weight and character in the hands of some other Member who could attend to the case. Now, he had given that advice, not on the recommendation of the case by Mr. B. Lovibond, but on his representation of that which now turned out to be what he must call a forged document, and therefore a fraud had been endeavoured to be committed, by his being asked to present a petition which actually had not been agreed to by those whose signatures were affixed to it. At the same time be trusted, that a reprimand would have the same effect as if the individual were placed in custody. He was sure, that if this party appeared again as agent before the House, he would never forget the mercy dealt to him, or the reprimand so properly awarded.
 The Solicitor-General  moved as an amendment, that Mr. Lovibond be called to the bar of the House on Thursday, to receive a reprimand from the Speaker. By taking this course he thought they would be making a sufficient example.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, the hon. Member for Lambeth had taken rather an unusual course. The natural course would have been, first to assent to the second reading, and then to have raised the question to what committee the bill should be referred. He thought it would be more satisfactory to the public, that the bill should be referred to a public committee, where all its details could be fully and more fairly discussed.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, it had been his intention to support the bill, because he approved generally of the various clauses, but on looking over the clauses of the Bill he found the suggestions that had been made, of giving control to the public officer of the Horne Department, together with the Magistrates of the City of London, were altogether omitted. However, that might, no doubt, be rectified.
 Lord John Russell  must deny, that he had been guilty of any breach of faith. Having consented to the introduction of the bill, he certainly wished to see it passed. It was for the House to consider whether the bill should be sent to a Select Committee or be dealt with in the usual manner. So far as it was of public importance, he thought that a Select Committee would be the best tribunal, but he did not consider it of much importance which Committee was selected.
 Lord John Russell  thought the evidence already before the house quite sufficient to guide its judgment. He was at a loss to conceive how any man of education could think of making such an excuse as that which the party had offered to the House; and how he could have supposed that it would be admitted as a sufficient warrant for his conduct that he had been advised to act as he had done by a Parliamentary agent. He (Lord John Russell) really thought that a man's own sense of propriety would have taught him better. He would suggest, therefore, that Benjamin Lovibond should be given into custody,
 1072
 Lord J. Russell  said, in answer to the first question of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he begged to state that the Government had received no intimation of the Turkish army having crossed the Euphrates. The latest intelligence which the Government had received was from the British Consul at Damascus, who had informed the Government of the advance of the Turkish army to the eastern bank of the Euphrates, but there was no information of that army having crossed over to the western bank. The Consul had also stated, that the forces of Mehemet Ali were concentrating in the same quarter. He must say, also, that there was nothing in the accounts. received by the Government to show that war had commenced, or that the efforts which had been made by the great European Powers to prevent hostilities between the Sultan and Mehemet Ali, would not be attended with ultimate success. With regard to the second question which had been put to him, he had to state, that the Government had received no intimation of any such demand as that to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded, as having been made to Mehemet Ali on the part of the Russian Government; and he did not believe that any such demand had been made.
 Lord J. Russell  said, his attention had been called to the subject by the statements which had been made public, and also by certain documents which had been forwarded to him. On receiving those documents, he had directed that all the papers should be forwarded to his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonial Department, and an investigation of the proceedings of the Children's Friend Society
 1068
 Lord John Russell  remarked, that it was extremely desirable that in matters of this sort the House should come to some opinion on which a division would be unnecessary. He did not at all wish to insist upon his own opinion, supposing the hon. Baronet opposite did not mean that this party should undergo a protracted confinement, but that he should be brought up on the next meeting of the House.
 Mr. Hawes  expressed himself desirous of following the course recommended by the right hon. Baronet, and hoped he should have his assistance to form a good committee. There had, within the last two years, been so many false foundations built upon, that had given way when the least pressure was felt, that he scarcely knew what to depend on, and seeing no better path to pursue, he would follow that pointed out by the right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Hawes  wished to shorten the discussion that might take place on this bill, first, by asking the Under-Secretary of State a question, and then ascertaining whether the promoters of the bill were willing to accede to what he understood would be the proposition of her Majesty's Ministers. He, therefore, now begged to ask the hon. Gentleman below him, whether he was disposed to refer the bill to a committee up stairs, and the House would probably allow him to state his objection to the bill should that proposition be refused.
 Mr. Hawes  would be enabled at one to clear himself from the unjust and unfounded aspersions cast upon him by the hon. Alderman. The hon. Alderman was, in that House, very loose in his statements. [" Order, order."
 Mr. Hawes  would, at once, bow to the authority of the Chair, and would instantly recall the expression which was thought offensive; but, at the same time, he would proceed to show that the hon. Alderman had then made a statement not founded upon fact. The hon. Alderman had stated, that the bill and all its clauses had been approved of and agreed to by the Commissioners of Police. He would undertake to say, that there was not the
 1061 1062 1063 bonâ fide, bonâ fide,
 Mr. Hawes : I hope the House will allow me to give a distinct and indignant denial to that statement.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that perhaps his hon. Friend, the Member for London, would state whether he intended to oppose that proposition.
 The Speaker,  on his return, having taken the chair, said, I have to acquaint the House, that the House has been to the House of Peers, where the Lords, authorised by her Majesty's Commission, have declared, that her Majesty approves of the choice which this House has made in electing me to be its Speaker; and I hope I may be permitted to take this opportunity of again expressing my sincere and heart-felt thanks for the honourable mark of confidence which the House has conferred upon me: I feel I shall have in finite occasion to call for their indulgence and support; but I know that indulgence and support will never be withheld from me, if I proceed fearlessly, faithfully, and honestly, in the discharge of my public duty.
 The Speaker  considered that the hon. Member was out of order in making use of an expression imputing to the hon. Alderman, that he was very loose in the statements he made in that House.
 The Speaker  addressing him, said, that his conduct had been under the consideration of a Select Committee of that House, who had reported that a petition presented to the House on the Parrett Navigation was not a petition which had been actually signed by all the parties whose signatures it professed to bear. He was charged with having forged the name of Henry Lovibond and John Lovibond and others. This was the report of the Select Committee, and he had now to ask him what he had to say in his defence.
 Mr. Finch  wished to ask the noble Lord, whether any inquiry had been made by the Government relative to certain proceedings of a body called the Children's Friend Society, and which had of late occupied much of the attention of the public?
 Mr. Grote  presented a petition from St. Mildred Ward, in favour of the bill.
 Mr. Freshfield  concurred in the opinion, that this was a case in which the least possible punishment would be sufficient.
 Mr. Pattison  moved the second reading of the City of London Police Bill.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the noble Lord, in the absence of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether the Government had received any information of the Turkish army having crossed the Euphrates? He also wished to ask, whether the statement was true, that the Russians had demanded from Mehemet Ali that he should retire altogether from Syria?
 Mr. Hume  thought, as there had been no attempt at fraud, the adoption of the proposition of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, would amply satisfy the justice of the case.
 Mr. Hume  concurred in the view taken by the right hon. Gentleman, that the hearing of further evidence was unnecessary; he was satisfied with what he had already heard.
 Mr. Pease  did not think, that, on inquiry, the offence would be found so grievous as at first sight it appeared. The whole proceeding had certainly been one of gross irregularity, but he concurred with the noble Lord below him, in thinking that the course proposed by the noble Lord would entirely satisfy the justice of the case.
 Sir Matthew Wood  could assure the hon. Member, that he should oppose every proposition that came from any opponent
 1060
 Sir Matthew Wood  said, that such alterations had been made in the bill as appeared to the noble Lord, and the Under Secretary, in the meetings they had had with the Commissioners, necessary. The hon. Member for Lambeth wished to have the bill referred to a Committee, and he had made a very fine show by referring to the names of Gentlemen who had sat on the Police Committee of that House. He believed the hon. Member for Lambeth was Chairman of that Committee, and discharged his duties as such most assiduously, but he believed the Chairman was very often there all day by himself.
 Sir Matthew Wood  believed, that when the very report which had been referred
 1064
 Sir C. Burrell  rose to call the attention of the House to the report of the Committee on the Parrett Navigation Petition, alleging forgery in the petition against the bill. On the 22d of April, a petition was presented from the Company of the Proprietors of the Parrett Navigation, alleging that
 "Previously to a bill for granting further powers to the company being referred to a Committee of your honourable House, a petition was presented against the same, purporting to be a petition of the merchants, traders, and other persons interested in the navigation of the River Parrett, in the county of Somerset, and of the inhabitants of the several towns, villages, or districts supplied with goods or merchandise by means of the said river, and purporting to be signed by upwards of two thousand persons, which petition was referred by your honourable House to the Committee upon the said bill. That the Committee of your honourable House met to take the said bill into consideration upon Tuesday, the 12th day of March last, and continued its sittings fur eight subsequent days, when they reported to the House the result of their inquiry upon the said bill and petition. That on Monday, the 8th day of April instant, Mr. Henry Lovibond, a merchant in Langport, an individual whose name appeared to the petition presented against the said bill, informed Mr. Broad-mead, your petitioners' solicitor, that the petition which had been so presented to your honourable House was not the real petition which was actually signed, the two petitions containing different allegations. That he was always decidedly opposed to having any tolls transferred to the canal, and he joined the opposition on the express ground that no such transfer should be proposed. That the petition signed was sent to town by Jacob Stower and Job Bradford, and before he (Lovibond) arrived there, the real petition was cut off, and another, with an allegation that the tolls should, in a given event, be transferred to the canal, substituted for it, and he never signed the new petition at all. That he remonstrated with the other parties upon the change that had been made in the petition. That he was to have been examined as a witness against the bill to prove certain calculations against the com-
 1069 "That the statement made by Henry Lovibond, that the petition so presented, though bearing his signature, was not signed by him or with his consent,' had been proved, and that therefore a forgery had been committed in the petition so presented to the House, and that it appeared to the Committee that Benjamin Lovibond, an agent for the petitioners, was cognizant of the forgery before the petition was presented to the House."
 Sir C. Burrell  thought a mere reprimand for this offence, particularly in the present state of the House, was wholly insufficient. He, therefore, hoped the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) would not think him discourteous if he (Sir C. Burrell) proposed (as he had originally intended to do) that this Gentleman be put into the hands of the Sergeant-at-Arms:
 Sir C. Burrell  said, in justice to Mr. Walmisley, he would remind the House, that he denied the account of the transaction given by the witness in his evidence before the Select Committee. He should move, that Mr. Walmisley be called in and examined.
 Sir C. Burrell  was understood to say he had no personal feeling in the matter: he was ready to meet the views of the House generally.
 Sir C. Burrell  said, that he was of opinion the course suggested by his right
 1075
 Sir C. Burrell  then moved, that Mr. Benjamin Lovibond be committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
 Sir R. Peel . I hope that the hon. Gentleman will, if he finds things go well in this case, be tempted in future to extend his confidence a little further.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, Sir, I am sure the public are under very great obligations to the hon. Member for Lambeth for his consistent and unremitting exertions on this subject. The course he has pursued throughout has been most useful as well as laborious. Nothing, indeed, could be more fair than the part he has taken to perfect this important establishment, and I have no hesitation in stating my earnest conviction that his conduct has been most public spirited and most disinterested. As to the absence of members of a committee, that does not detract from the value of a report, for if they do not attend, the chairman has every right to take it for granted, that he has their perfect confidence, and to proceed accordingly. If they dissented from him, or disagreed in any thing, it would have been easy for them to attend and overbear his views by their votes or arguments. For my own part, I could not attend the committee, but if I had felt inclined to dissent from the general opinion of those who did, I should have stated my objections. Not having done so, I consider myself as having fully incurred the responsibility, in common with the rest, of conclusions set forth in the report, which was ultimately adopted. I can state, in confirmation of the assurance of the hon. Member for Lambeth, that the opposition since manifested, was not heard of while the committee was sitting. I do, for my own part, exceedingly regret, that when I con-
 1065 1066
 Mr. Williams Wynn  seconded the motion, which was immediately agreed to.
 Mr. Wynn  said, the only ground for calling Mr. Benjamin Lovibond to the bar of the House was, to hear if he bad any thing to advance in explanation of the charge made against him in the report of the Select Committee; but he could not see any use in calling in Mr. Walmisley, whose evidence was already on record and before the House. He thought the case was now sufficiently before the House, and that they might proceed to act upon it. The House had heard Mr. Lovibond, who had admitted the act with which he was charged, although he had endeavoured to excuse himself by an allegation, or an argument as he had called it, that he thought he had a right to do so. But it was quite clear that he had been guilty of tampering with a petition which had been presented to that House.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  remarked, that though a reprimand might be amply sufficient to prevent this party from offending again, still it was desirable to show the public that the practice, now too prevalent, of tampering with petitions would not be suffered with impunity. The case had been fully made out before the committee to whom the inquiry had been delegated, and he must say, it was necessary to mark the offence with a punishment of a higher nature than a mere reprimand. He thought the party ought to be committed—it would only be for two days, when on the next sitting he might present a petition and be discharged. He should not move this at present, but if the House fell into his views, he was ready to do so.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  did not conceive, that this was at all the proper course. If the House thought, that a reprimand was sufficient, that reprimand should certainly take place immediately. He could see no possible advantage which could result from the postponement of the reprimand for two days.
 Mr. Erle  said, that it appeared to him that the real facts of the case were not at present understood by the House. Those facts, as he collected them from the report, were, that the party who had appeared at the bar came up to London to oppose the bill in question on behalf of the merchants of Langport; that in London he prepared a petition, and sent it down to an agent in the country to obtain signatures; the agent struck out a ma-
 1073 l. 1074
 Lord J. Russeell : Her Majesty's Ministers did not intend to renew the patent for the exclusive monopoly of any individual or corporation; and by that course they would be enabled to circulate the Scriptures at the cheapest price. But at the same time that every possible freedom of circulation was secured for them, the Government were resolved to preserve the text of the Scriptures from corruption or interpolation, by means which he should take care to explain to the House on a future day, when the question came on for discussion.
 Mr. Labouclrere  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to provide for the enactment of certain laws in Jamaica, consequent upon the abolition of slavery in that island. He had already stated to the House that this bill was introduced as a substitute for the other measure relating to the affairs of that colony which he had had the honour to propose at an earlier period of the Session. He wished—he most sincerely wished—he could state, that he entertained any different opinion of the justice, of the expediency, or of the necessity of passing a measure similar to that which he had previously introduced. Unhappily he was bound to state that after greater reflection, more mature consideration, and more abundant information, he did not withdraw the former measure in consequence of any alteration of the opinions he had previously expressed. If he had done so, he hoped he should not be backward in making the admission; but standing in the position he did, however unworthily representing the Colonial Department in that House, he could not but express his deep regret, that the bill he first introduced did not receive such a measure of support, as could leave any chance of its becoming the law of the land, in such a manner as to be brought into operation in Jamaica with any prospect of attaining useful ends. When he saw that the great party which was ranged opposite had made up their minds in one unbroken phalanx to oppose the bill, he confessed that from that moment he lost much of the anxiety he had previously entertained, because he could not but feel that a measure of this kind, suspending the constitution of a British colony, not only could not pass the Legislature and become a law for any good effect; nay, be would go further and say, it could not have any effect at all even if it were to become a law—if it were to go out to the colony only upon the authority of a small majority of that House. He did not say this with any intention of bringing a charge against the hon. Gentlemen opposite for the course they had thought proper to pursue. But at the same time he was bound to men-
 1106 1107 locus penitentiœ. bonâ fide 1108 'We feel in common with your Excellency the emergency in which the country may be placed by the expiration of the annual laws; and we are also well aware of the necessity which in our present state of society exists, that laws for the protection of vagrancy, for regulating the relative rights and duties of masters and servants, for determining the qualification of electors, for the regulation of the militia, and for preventing the unauthorised occupation of land, should be enacted." "We beg sincerely to assure your Excellency that in deciding upon this course, we have done so with extreme reluctance. We are more than sensible of the many existing evils which loudly call for laws to remedy them." 1109 "During the three weeks I have been in this island (Mr. Oldham had been absent on a visit to this country), I have been endeavouring to gain all the information I can from the several parishes as to the state of things, and I do assure you it is truly deplorable, and will continue so until the business is settled, as to whether we are to have a House of Assembly to make laws, or have them made for us by the
 1110 1111 1112 1113 "I quite dread the consequences. From the attachment of the people to their old locations, they must be reduced to the employer's own terms of wages, or be driven off the properties as vagrants. Then, I beseech your Lordship to look to the provisions of the Local Vagrant Act, unrepealed, 35 Car. 2nd, c. 2. This Act was introduced against the lawless soldiery of Governor D'Oyley; and many violent planters are now rejoicing in the power it gives of flogging free men from parish to parish; and there is an improvement in its penal powers by the 32 Geo. 3rd. c. 11, still unrepealed, which adds six months' hard labour in the House of Correction. Your Lordship may bid me apply to the Legislature to repeal these frightful laws; but I should apply in vain: and in the midst of freedom we have still terrific engines of oppression and tyranny preparing for the emancipated population." "And be it further enacted, that all rogues, vagabonds, or other idle persons that shall be found wandering from place to place, or otherwise mis-ordering themselves, shall be apprehended by the constables or tythingmen of each respective parish within this island, and
 1114 "Be it enacted, that all white persons and free negroes and mulattoes, able in body, who, not having wherewith otherwise to maintain themselves, use loitering, and refuse to work for the usual and common wages, and all other idle white persons, free negroes, and free mulattoes wandering abroad and begging, (except soldiers, &c. &c.), shall be deemed rogues and vagabonds. And be it further enacted, that if any person, by this act declared to be a rogue and vagabond, shall be found in any parish or place to be wandering or begging, or mis-ordering him or herself, it shall and may be lawful for the constable of such parish, or any other person there dwelling, to apprehend the person so deemed a rogue or vagabond, and to convey, or cause to be conveyed, him or them to some justice of the peace in the parish, or in the neighbourhood of such parish or place." "It may and shall be lawful for such justice, and he is hereby required to inform himself, as well by the oath and examination of the person or persons apprehended as of any other persons (which oath or oaths the said justice is hereby authorised to administer), or by any other ways or means he shall think proper, of condition, circumstances, and way of life of the person or persons so apprehended. And if the person comes within the description in this act of a rogue or vagabond, the justice shall send him, her or them, to the parish workhouse, there to be set to work, for any time not exceeding six months for any one offence." "And be it further enacted, that all white persons committed or sent to the said public workhouse, shall be fed, lodged, and worked separate and apart from the free negroes, mulattoes, and slaves in the said workhouse." 1115 1116 "King's House, August 14,1838. "My Lord—I am very anxious to draw your Lordship's attention to the act of the island, 5 William 4th, c. 2, for enlarging the powers of justices in determining complaints between masters and servants, &c. "This act has already been found to operate with great severity against the European emigrants; and the friends of the negro are naturally apprehensive that it may be converted into a powerful engine of oppression against the labourers, as it gives authority to a single justice to apprehend, under his warrant, servants in husbandry,' who absent themselves or neglect to fulfil their contract, and punish them by hard labour, not exceeding three months, or by forfeiture of wages. "I hope your Lordship will be enabled to rid us of this act, either by a formal disallowance, or by the authority of the Imperial Parliament." "And be it further enacted, that if any servant in husbandry, or any mechanic, artificer, handicraftsman, labourer, person employed in droggers, body or house servant, or other person, shall contract with any person or persons whomsoever, to serve him, her, or them, for any time or times whatsoever, or in any other manner, and shall not enter into or commence his or her service, according to his or her contract, or, having entered into such service, shall absent himself or herself from his or her service before the term of his or her contract (whether such contract shall be in writing or not in writing) shall be completed, or neglect to fulfil the same, or be guilty of any other misconduct or misdemeanor in the execution thereof, or otherwise respecting the same, then and in every such case, it shall and may be lawful for any justice of the peace of the parish where such servant in husbandry, mechanic, artificer, handicraftsman, labourer, person employed in droggers, body or house servant, or other person, shall have so contracted, or be employed, or be found; and such justice is hereby authorized and empowered, upon complaint thereof made upon oath to him by the person or persons, with whom such servant in husbandry, mechanic, artificer, handicraftsman, person employed in droggers, labourer, body or house servant, or other person, shall have so contracted, or by his, her, or their attorney, manager, or agent, which oath such justice is hereby empowered to administer, to issue his warrant for the apprehending every such servant in husbandry, mechanic, artificer, handicraftsman, person employed in droggers, labourer, body or house servant, or other person, and to examine into the nature of the complaint; and if it shall appear to such justice, that any servant in husbandry, mechanic, artificer, handicraftsman, persons employed in droggers, labourer, body or house servant, or
 1117 1118 "By what rules has provision been made for preventing the unauthorised occupation of lands belonging either to the Crown or to private persons?" "It appears that the law of the island is silent on this subject. This is one of the topics embraced in the series of orders of the Queen in council, which are about to be extended to the colonies, subject to her Majesty's legislative authority. I postpone this question, therefore, until that order shall have been completed." 1119 1120
 Mr. Thornley  considered, that instead of this being a trumpery case upon the part of the claimants for compensation, the case upon the part of those who resisted the payment was trumpery indeed. He considered the conduct both of the Treasury and the Commissioners of Customs in this matter to have been most unfair.
 Lord, J. Russell  said, it was not his in-
 1151
 Mr. Williams  thought the mercantile system of this country was founded on error, as was proved by the great fluctuations in the price of commodities. It was the duty of Government to take this subject into consideration, with the view of checking inordinate issues of bank notes, and thus preventing those incessant changes in the value of property and the social condition of individuals, to which we were now from year to year subjected.
 Lord J. Russell  could not object to the mode in which the right hon. Gentleman had expressed his opinions, and he willingly allowed that the right hon. Gentleman had said as much on the principle of the bill, and that he had acquiesced as far in that principle as, under the whole circumstances, could have been expected. The right hon. Gentleman had a perfect right to reserve Iris opinions in regard to any of the details of the measure, or in regard to the wisdom of the policy which the Government might pursue in regard to Jamaica. He could only say that, while he agreed with the principles which his right hon. Friend had laid down, and while they had abandoned the course proposed by the former bill, of suspending the functions of the House of Assembly, the Government, although they had resolved to try a different course, were prepared to maintain the absolute necessity of providing, in the present session, that there should be the means of preventing those who might be so inclined from oppressing the now free population of the colony. The House was bound to take care, after having passed the great measure of negro emancipation, that under no power which previously existed, or which since that time had been acquired, oppression should be carried into operation by persons who might resent the passing of that measure. He owned, if he felt any regret in regard to that great and benevolent measure, it was, that, having agreed to abolish slavery, and to provide ample compensation to the slave-owners, the Legislature had not manifested somewhat less of prodigality, and that they had provided for the immediate payment of the compensation, instead of waiting till they had seen whether freedom was practically and in reality established. For while at the first, and on the immediate abolition of slavery, the liberal and ample compensation which was provided reconciled most of those who had property in the slaves, yet, after the various sums had been apportioned and paid, and when the next step was to be taken, there arose a great deal of discontent—a great deal of dissatisfaction on the part of those slave-owners with the measures which it was necessary to adopt to carry the Emancipation Act into effect, and to secure the welfare of the colony, and the
 1127 1128 Name. 1129
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he should have great pleasure in producing the papers for which the hon. and learned Gentleman had moved, but he must protest against the recommendation the hon. and learned Gentleman had expressed in the concluding part of his speech, in the hope that the House would now express an opinion on this subject. Against such a course, without the production and consideration of the papers moved for, he (Mr. Thomson) must enter his protest; and he sincerely hoped the House would not enter into a discussion of the matter until those documents were all before it. He would give the hon. and learned Gentleman his papers, and when they were in the hands of Members, it would be seen that a more profligate case of demand had never been submitted to Parliament. It was, however, impossible for him (Mr. P. Thomson) to allow such a statement as that which had been made to go forth uncontradicted, or without stating what was the real nature of the case. The real nature of the case was, that under the East India charters that company was allowed to ship woollens to China exempt from the duty of half per cent. levied on woollens sent out to all other countries. About the year 1826 certain parties found this out for the first time, and said that China was a foreign country to which the woollens sent out did not pay duty, and therefore all other countries which were on an equally favourable footing were entitled, under the treaties alluded to, to exemption from the payment of the duty he had stated. The case was represented to the Treasury and the Board of Trade in
 1137
 Mr. Cresswell  said, it was his duty to call the attention of the House to a petition of Liverpool merchants, and to move for papers relating to the duties paid on exported manufactured woollen goods to the United States. This question which for a tong series of years had been urged upon the attention of the Government of the country, was no party question. It was not brought forward in favour of any particular party. The House would at once admit, that it was no party question when
 1133 s. 1134 1135 1136
 Mr. Cresswell  replied, that the right hon. Gentleman had not disputed a single fact which he had brought forward, neither had the Solicitor-general, who sat by him, risen to dispute the accuracy of any of the arguments he had made use of as to the law of the case. The right hon. Gentleman had called this a trumpery case; but if it was in reality so trumpery a case, how easy it was to get rid of it by paying the money. He also said, that
 1139
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that on a former occasion he had acted as the great majority of the House had done, and it was ungenerous on the part of the other side to taunt them (the Opposition) with being willing to suspend a constitution. The conclusion he had come to with respect to Canada had been after due inquiry, and after reading all the papers,
 1132
 Mr. Finch  contended, that though the change made in the currency in 1819 had worked injustice to one class, another
 1152
 Mr. Warburton  was of opinion that the proposition contained in the hon. Member's resolutions was an indelicate one. It amounted to this—that men who borrowed at 20 s. s., s., s., Attwood, s.
 Mr. Wallace  thought the statement of the hon. Member for Birmingham a fair one, and deserved the serious attention of the Government and the House. The noble Lord was mistaken, in supposing that the hon. Member wanted an inconvertible paper currency. All he wanted was a currency, fixed on a better basis than the present. It was admitted, that within a comparatively few years there had been three changes in the currency. Who could tell whether a fourth would not do good? He thought the subject ought to be seriously considered, for he believed that the state of the currency was at the bottom of all the evils which afflicted the country.
 Mr. T. Attwood,  on rising to call the attention of the House to the recent large exportation of bullion, and the consequent contraction of the circulating medium of the country, and increase of distress among the industrious classes, said, he hoped the House would hear him for a short time on a subject of very great importance to all classes of the country. The resolutions which he meant to propose were to this effect:—
 "That it was the opinion of the House that a considerable exportation of gold from this country had taken place lately; that this exportation was occasioned, in a great degree, by the large importations of grain for the relief of the wants of the industrious classes; that the exportation necessarily led to a contraction of the circulating medium, and thereby increased the difficulties at present pressing upon the industrious classes; that this exportation still continues, and consequently still increases those difficulties; that, under the present law, the Bank of England possesses no means of permanently meeting this state of things, or of preventing it; that the results thus produced were analogous in their character to what the country experienced in the years 1816, 1819, 1825, 1826, 1836, and 1837, and required the speedy and effectual interference of the House of Commons." 1140 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1141 speculators fluctuations overtrading, overpopulating, overspeculating, 1142 l. s. l. s. a laugh 1143 No, no. l. s. l. l. s. l. 1144 1145
 Mr. Attwood,  in reply, said, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Greenock, was perfectly right in saying that he (Mr. A.) had never advocated an unlimited paper currency; and he was astonished that the noble Lord (J. Russell) should still appear to misapprehend him, when the noble Lord had heard him, on that very night, and on twenty other occasions in that House, declare, that he cared not a rush whether we had a gold or a paper currency, provided only that our currency, whatever it might be, was made equal to the duties which it had to discharge, and competent alike to distribute equal justice, equity, and prosperity, among all classes of the community. The existing system of the currency had been the sole cause of all the fluctuations, difficulties, and distresses, which the industrious classes had endured for more than twenty years; and, terrible as had been its results, the country had not yet witnessed one-tenth part of its ultimate effects. Mr. Huskisson had told them, a few years ago, that they were brought within forty-eight hours of a state of barter. Did the House know what a state of barter meant? In a country like England, it meant universal anarchy; a state of things in which every man, who lived at all, must, of necessity, live by blood and plunder. And did they think, that hiding their heads, or closing their eyes, or their ears, would prevent this fearful state of things from still hanging over them? Every year it assumed a more difficult, a more complicated, and a more dangerous shape. It must be grappled with, and overcome, or the doom of England was sealed. Let the House only reflect upon what would be the effect
 1153 1154 1155 1156
 Sir Charles Grey  said, that it would be beyond the powers of any party to stipulate that the Government should not legislate, if necessary, for Jamaica. There was no person in that House, no lawyer, no man of research, who could point out any general principle which forbade legislation by the Imperial Parliament as to the internal concerns of the colonies, save only, as to imposing new taxes, except for the purposes of commerce, affecting the property of the inhabitants of the colonies. Indeed, it was necessary that the Imperial Parliament should possess this power of legislation, if they meant to preserve in the colonies principles consistent with the principles of the English Constitution. It was idle to talk, with reference to Jamaica especially, of the want of this power of legislation; for the whole of the present difficulty arose from an Act of the Imperial Parliament, which operated over the whole internal affairs of the island when it liberated the slaves, and he thought that those who were sharers in the great glory of that measure would shrink from their duty if they were not prepared to carry it out into full effect as originally intended. Although he had no wish to throw any obstacles in the way of the measure brought forward by the Government, yet he regretted that they had been compelled, by the hon. Gentleman opposite to abandon a measure which gave a power for suspending the sittings of the House of Assembly, for that was all the former bill would have done. It was all that he thought really desirable, and he believed that it was all that the Government were anxious to obtain. All they wished was, to be absolved from the embarrassment, and, as he believed, from the overwhelming difficulty of calling together the Assembly year by year, and to place the power of legislation elsewhere than in the Parliament, but still under its regulation and control. He thought that the Gentlemen opposite would bitterly repent having compelled the Government to abandon the measure, which would have prevented the necessity of calling the local Assembly together; for those who looked to the Legislature of Jamaica would find little probability that any beneficial change in the laws would be carried into effect. The recently emancipated people of Jamaica were as much a new people as if they had been recently conquered, and required as much care in the legislation, and out of
 1131
 Sir J. Graham  said, the patent would
 1105
 Sir James Graham : The patent of the King's printer of the Holy Scriptures in Scotland would expire on the 17th of July. That patent was the sole security for preserving an authentic version of the Scriptures; and as it was not, he understood, the intention of her Majesty's Ministers to renew the patent which was about to expire, the question which he to ask was, whether it was the intention of the Government to take any, and if any, what steps, to prevent interpolations, either through ignorance or design?
 Sir R. Peel  was sure that it was unnecessary for him to say that it was not his intention to offer any opposition to the present motion. He went further; he should not offer a single word which would have the effect of prejudicing or prejudging the due consideration of the general principles of the measure which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to introduce. Reserving his opinion upon the particular provisions by which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to carry his bill into effect, and speaking of the general principles themselves, he concurred in the principles which the right hon. Gentleman had laid down—that was to say, that the moment the Government had agreed to abandon their intention of suspending the constitution of Jamaica, the House of Assembly was called to return to the exercise of their legislative capacity; and this he must say, that after the opportunity thus afforded to the House of Assembly by Parliament to resume its functions, it was the manifest duty of the House of Assembly so to conduct itself, as to show that they were disposed to legislate for the colony in a right spirit. He thought that it would be a most unworthy course in the House of Assembly if they steered too close to the wind, and that it would be their true policy, as it was their manifest duty, fairly to carry into effect the views entertained by Parliament in passing the Emancipation Act. He must repeat the declaration which he had made, that he thought, after the magnificent pecuniary grant made by the people of this country, we had a right to insist that the negro
 1121 1122 1123 bonâ fide 1124 bonâ fide 1125 bona fide 1126
 Mr. Hutt  had no hesitation whatever in pronouncing his opinion; that these proceedings were altogether unjustifiable; and it was of little moment under what Government the regulations were adopted. If, however, the right hon. Gentleman would fairly carry out his principle of awarding the compensation to these parties upon adequate proof of their claims, he (Mr. Hutt) would not object to such an arrangement, but he must be satisfied, that the principle would be fairly applied. At the same time he would state his belief, that nothing in these countries required a more special reform than the Board of Customs.
 Viscount Sandon  said, that any delay which had taken place ought to be in fairness attributed to the right hon. Gentleman himself. The right hon. Gentleman appeared to rest his case on the imputations he had thrown upon those who claimed this money; but when he looked at the list of the names of those Gentlemen and considered the high character they bore, he considered, that he had a right to say, that no such imputations ought to be allowed to weigh against the concession of their claim. Every possible
 1138
 Mr. O'Connell  would not detain the House, as he understood an unanimous vote was about to be given, but he must express his conviction, that if the plaintiff in the action in the Court of Queen's Bench had not been guilty of a breach of privilege, they might as well walk out of the House, and shut the doors, because it would be utterly impossible for them to do the public service. It was quite true the judges had not shut out publication altogether. Every laudatory publication might issue. They might praise all the world, whether they deserved it or not. Praise was never a libel. But it was a libel to tell the truth of a man who deserved to be reprobated. At present, the only control over the judges was a decision of the House of Commons. They were not responsible to the Crown. They could not be removed, except by a vote of that House. Since his time one judge had been removed, on addresses to the Crown, by the two Houses of Parliament. The judge was Sir Jonah Barrington, the vote of the House stating, that he had been peculating with the money of the suitors. According to this decision of the judges, Sir Jonah Barrington might have gone before the Court of Queen's Bench and indicted the officers, or have brought an action against them; and how would the House have acted had the court decided against the parties? Suppose a Jefferies should be restored to-morrow, and be placed in the room of a Denman, how could the House proceed against him, if they did not let the public know the ground of their procedure? It was admitted, that the House might proceed against a corrupt partial judge, but, in order to do so, it was necessary to bring before the public all the facts of the case. But those facts would be so many libels, according to the decision of the judges. It was impossible that the House could tolerate that decision; and his opinion was, that the four judges who had given that decision, ought, tomorrow, to be called to the bar of the House. Yes, that was his deliberate opinion. What he was then saying might possibly be published in the newspapers to-morrow. It was certainly in disparagement of the judges of the Court of Queen's Bench—and they might, if they pleased,
 1205 mater patriœ.
 Mr. Pemberton  had not purposed to make any observations upon this question, but, after the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, he felt he should not discharge his duty if he remained entirely silent. Without disputing the regularity of the proceedings taken by his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-general, in bringing this subject before the House without any notice whatever, he thought that every. body would agree that it was not convenient, because many of those gentlemen who took, a deep interest in the subject were not only wholly ignorant that the motion would be brought on to-night, but even that the decision had been given, and it was by mere accident, when he was coming down to the House, that he himself had heard that his hon. and learned Friend had made this motion. He believed that there was no one who disputed the propriety of making this inquiry, and the only question between himself and his hon. and learned Friend was, whether the House would be more likely to adopt a course consistent with its own dignity and the interests of the people of this country, by delaying the discussion of this question for a few days, or by proceeding at once precipitately to take that course which his hon. and learned Friend had recommended. Now, if he wanted any proof
 1206 1207 1208
 Mr. Pemberton  thought, that it was duo to the judges and to the House, that the House should fully and clearly understand the precise terms in which the decision of the judges had been delivered.
 The Solicitor General  said, he was anxious to express his opinion upon this most important subject. The question was, were they prepared to concede to the very strong and generally expressed opinion of their constituents a means of providing cheap and speedy justice? That was the whole question. Difficulties there were in the way, no doubt, but difficulties inherent in the subject. If the fees were small, then they must have an inferior description of persons to administer justice in those courts. They were bound to this. If they determined to continue the present system of expense, it was the same thing as to say that they would shut the door of the courts to all but the wealthy classes. But, what was all that had been urged by the hon. Members opposite considered as a reason against the second reading? They must run the risk of not doing such good justice by doing this cheap justice. They could not afford anything better. It was better that injustice should be done than that no justice should be done. He was prepared to support this position, and he said, that it was better that a poor man who had a debt of 5 s.
 Colonel Wood  observed, that though soldiers went to Roman Catholic or Dissenting chapels, they, nor the country, had not to pay the ministers. He was very sorry the noble Lord's doubts had been shaken on this question, for the very circumstance which recommended the, clause to the noble Lord—namely, that the appointment was left optional to the magistrates—afforded the very strongest objection to it. The operation of the clause would be strongly felt in Middlesex, Lancashire, and other large counties, and to show the consequences he would state what had occurred in the county of Middlesex. The circumstance he was about to mention showed, that the matter could not be left optional with the magistrates, but that the Legislature must determine whether or not Roman Catholic and other ministers must be paid or not. Not long since, an application was made at the quarter sessions on the part of some Roman Catholic ladies who wished to visit Coldbathfields prison; the majority of the magistrates not wishing to be responsible for the tracts those ladies might think fit to distribute, felt it their duty to resist the application, and the magistrates divided—fifteen for and thirty against the admission of those ladies. Upon that the question was supposed to have been settled, but the magistrate who had introduced again revived the subject; the magistrates again rejected it, and by a larger majority, because they stated, that the question was very likely to be brought under the consideration of Parliament, that they hoped it would not be left optional with the magistrates to decide one way or the other, and that the Legislature ought to determine, aye or no, whether these ministers ought to be paid. If that was not done, they stated, that the bench would be fighting the Catholic question every time they met. Determined as he was, not to leave the matter in doubt, he should certainly vote against the clause.
 Mr. Acland  thought this clause had some connexion with the minute of Council on education. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had told them, that he would not have consented to this clause except it were always provided, that a general superintendence should be exercised by the chaplain of the gaol. He (Mr. Acland) had looked over the bill in vain for any such clause of superintendence It appeared to him, that the chaplain with his fifty persons under his charge would be in very much the same position as the Roman Catholic priest. On behalf of the established religion of the country, he did beg, that as the state professed to have an Established Church, it should not act in contravention of that profession. He would ask the noble Lord, what was that general superintendence which was given to the chaplains of the gaols? He had also to call the attention of the legal adviser of her Majesty to another question. He was rather anxious to ascertain from those learned in the law the meaning of the term "one and the same religion." He wanted to know what was the legal definition of the term "one and the same religion." Did it mean of the same denomination of religion, or did it include all denominations not being Roman Catholic, or all denominations not being of the Established Church? It was important for the House when a new principle was
 1226
 Mr. Colquhoun  moved, as an amend-
 1228 ex officio
 Sir G. Clark  supported it.
 Mr. Colquhonn  said, that the remarks of the hon. Member would go more to prove the inefficiency of the board than the propriety of making the inspector a member of it. The inspector ought to be under the control of the board.
 Mr. Hope  proposed an amendment, to the effect that no man should be a member of these local boards, unless he were a Commissioner of Supply and also a Justice of Peace.
 Mr. Langdale  begged to remark, in the first place, that the words which had now been objected to were not in the clause he originally proposed, but had been inserted at the instigation of the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire. But the really serious question in the clause was this—look at the different prisons, and it would be seen, that the Roman Catholics in populous towns were of the lowest classes, and formed the largest number of prisoners. Those persons could not and would not receive the instruction the law now afforded them. The Legislature was now passing measures for the separate confinement of prisoners, and for other means of correcting criminals, and then, because there were large masses of criminals who would not avail themselves of the instruction of the Established Church, it was said, rather than provide them with the instruction they would accept, the Legislature would give them none, and thus deprive the whole community of the advantages of an attempt in that way to reform persons in confinement. This was a denial of justice to those individuals and to the country, Furthers it seemed strange
 1224
 Mr. F. Maule  said, the inspector was responsible to the Government, as he had to report to it all circumstances connected with the state of prisons in Scotland. He would be an honorary member of the board, and should not influence its decisions. He thought that his being a
 1230
 Mr. F. Maule  opposed the amendment.
 Lord John Russell  thought it right to say a few words with respect to the introduction of this clause. The hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, was right in saying that the clause was not contained in the original bill. It was moved when he (Lord John Russell) was not in his place, by the hon. Member for Knaresborough; it was supported by the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire (Lord Stanley) whom he did not now see present), and it was received with favour by the House. When he found the proposition had been thus supported and favourably received, although he had some doubts as to its propriety, he had stated, that seeing the opinion of the House was in its favour, he was willing to adopt a clause of this nature, always providing, that its terms should be such as to preserve that general superintendence of the chaplain which was necessary to the discipline of the prison. He thought that the clause in this respect answered the object the hon. Mover had in view, and in which he was ready to concur. The state
 1221 1222
 Lord J. Russell  said, it was supposed that the fee fund would furnish sufficient means for the payment of the judges under the bill. If the committee thought otherwise, they would report otherwise. But he should say, if upon experience it were found that the fee fund were insufficient, that the measure was one of those in aid of which Government and the Parliament should see the propriety of incurring some expenditure.
 Lord J. Russell  said, the reason why the Middlesex County Court had been excepted was, that it had been intended to introduce provisions into the Metropolitan Police Courts Bill for the purpose of providing judges for that court.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he had no objection to the principle being discussed then. What he proposed was, that a bill on this principle should be sent to a Select Committee, after having been read a second time; if the House affirmed the principle of giving the people cheap justice, there could be no objection against sending the bill up stairs.
 Lord J. Russell  moved, that the County Courts Bill be read a second time. He should not wish the discussion to be taken until after the bill had been referred to a Select Committee upstairs.
 Lord J.
 1214  moved, "that during the remainder of the session, orders of the day have precedence of notices of motions upon Thursdays, except on a special direction of the House with respect to a notice of motion."
 Lord J. Russell  said, he could not do that without laying himself open to similar applications.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that his hon. and learned Friend and himself, in the appointment of this committee, had no view to the examination of the judges on any judicial question; they had no such intention, and his hon. Friend need not suppose they had; at the same time they did not mean to preclude themselves from giving to the committee the power which was usually given by the House.
 Lord J. Russell  agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that it was desirable to have the notes of the arguments of the Attorney-General laid before the committee, and he believed they would be produced under the form of the motion which had been proposed.
 Lord J, Russell  did not think, that either the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, or the right hon. Baronet who had just spoken, had correctly understood the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend. One would certainly suppose, from their arguments (which would be correct enough, if their premises were right), that some immediate decision of the House was called for, and that that decision was to be a decision against some parties for a breach of privilege. No such decision was called for. His hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-general, felt, however, that it was a matter deeply affecting the privileges of the House, and, therefore, had brought it forward at the earliest and most proper period. No one, he thought, would deny, that it was a question deeply affecting the privileges of the House. The object of his hon. and learned Friend's motion was not to charge any one with a breach of privilege, but merely to ask the House to appoint a committee to inquire into the proceedings by which its privileges were likely to be so deeply affected. Was this a new course of proceeding? By no means. It was a proceeding naturally arising out of the course which the House took upon the former occasion when this subject was under its consideration; and be it remembered, that that was not a precipitate nor a violent course, but a course of great moderation and temper, merely directing the Attorney-general to plead in a case then pending din a court of law. It appeared
 1200
 Mr. Hawes  was placed in the difficulty to which the right hon. Baronet had adverted. He was nominated on two committees—one public, and the other private; and having been obliged to be absent for a day on the latter, he considered himself disentitled to sit any longer. There was, however, a different interpretation put upon the rule by other Members; and, at all events, it was important that all doubt with regard to it should be cleared up.
 Mr. Hawes  having moved that certain Members constitute the Select Committee on the London Police Bill,
 Mr. Hawes  could not see what objection there was to it. The Inspector-general was the man likely to possess most information on the subject of prisons, and, as there were many Members of the Board who could not always attend, the attendance of the inspector would be more desirable.
 Mr. C. Buller  asked, whether the hon. Baronet meant to say, that the judges were not to he called before the House, or even before committees of the House? If he did, the practice had been different. In the Record Committee the judges had been called upon to give their opinions. He could see no difference between the cases. Did the hon. Baronet mean to lay down a rule, that the judges of the land were to be kept so apart from all other persons, that they were not to be called before a committee of the House for their opinions?
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  found himself in a similar situation to the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel). He did not think that it was the intention of the House, that so stringent an interpretation should be put upon the rule, as that to which the hon. Member for Lambeth referred. All the House required, in his opinion, was, that no Member should vote on any question arising out of the proceedings before a private committee, without, hearing the evidence relating to it.
 Mr. Baines  concurred in the belief expressed by the hon. Member, that the Dissenters had no wish themselves on the subject, first, because it was not consistent with their principles, that their clergy should receive payment from the state; and, next, because he believed there would never be found fifty Dissenters in any prison in England. At the same time he was very much disposed to give religious instruction to Roman Catholics hi prison in the way proposed, and when this was called a means of extending the power of the Roman Catholic Church, he must 'ask hon. Members whether they thought really their Church was so weak as to be in danger of being subverted by sending half-a-dozen Roman Catholic priests to attend prisoners in as many gaols? The proposition was most preposterous, and he thought he saw the hon. Member opposite smile at the absurdity of his own observations.
 Mr. Kelly  said, he could not allow the bill to be read a second time without entering his protest against the principle of the measure. There was this palpable objection to the bill, that it went to repeal the whole law of England with regard to debts not exceeding 15 l.
 Mr. Kelly  did not rise to offer any opposition to the motion of the Attorney-general. He agreed that it was quite enough, immediately it was found, that a decision had taken place affecting the privileges of the House, to justify the House in taking immediate measures upon the subject. He therefore concurred in the proposition for the immediate appointment of a Committee, in order that the proceedings in the late action might be regularly brought under the consideration of the House. But if he thought, with the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, that by acceding to this motion he implied, that any breach of privilege had been committed, either by the Court of Queen's Bench, or by either party in the action, he should unhesitatingly oppose the motion. They ought to have brought under the consideration of the House, not only the proceedings on the action, but the short-hand writer's notes of the judgment delivered by the learned judges. Another reason why he acceded to the motion was, that he felt firmly convinced that the more the judgment of the learned judges was made known to the House
 1203 1204
 Mr. Kelly  thought, that the notes of the arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney-general ought also to be before the committee.
 Mr. Darby  had that day listened with great attention to the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench, as delivered by Justices Coleridge and Patteson, and confessed, that he had either totally misunderstood those learned judges, or else had fallen into a complete misapprehension of what had been stated by the Attorney-general.—[The  Attorney-General: No, no! 1197
 Mr. Darby  begged to know whether, in case the fee fund fell short, it was intended ultimately to throw the expenses of the machinery of the bill on the county-rates?
 Mr. Darby  said, as the clause had been disclaimed by the noble Lord opposite, and also on the part of the Dissenters, he could not but think it was brought forward on behalf of the Roman Catholics. It was said, that this plan had been in operation in Ireland. The result there, however, did not induce him to look on the plan in a very favourable light. By this clause it was sought to make the magistrates do that which the Government were afraid to do themselves; they feared the responsibility, and sought to fix it on the magistrates of the country. The hon. Member (Mr. Langdale) had said, that the Catholics were the lowest class of the community. They well knew, that this class of the community did not seek the clergy of their persuasion; their clergy were obliged to seek out them; and were Members on the opposite side of the House prepared to tell him, that the Roman Catholic priests did not seek up the Members of their persuasion, but that it was necessary to provide clergy for the Roman Catholics in the prisons? The principle was not now acted upon, that the state was to maintain the established religion of the state; they had given up that principle. The Members of the Opposition had told those on the other side of the House, that there were persons destitute of religion within the walls of the gaols, and they now called on them to provide the religion of the state for them. It was not because he thought, that if the Roman Catholic priests were admitted into the walls of the gaols they would destroy the Church that he opposed this clause; for he did not believe if they separated all support of the state from the Church, that the Church would be in danger; but it was necessary for the safety of the state, that the Church should not be separated from the state. This attempt to introduce this clause was part of our great system; he saw it in operation not only in this country, not only in Ireland, but in Europe; it was part of a system,
 1225
 Mr. Plumptre  said, if once they admitted the principle, that fifty persons assembled together in any gaol or other place of one religious persuasion should call upon the state to support their minister, fifty persons in any ship or society whatever might call upon the state to support their minister, of whatever religion they might be. It was the admission of this principle to which he, as a Protestant, could not submit. Fifty men of any religious denomination so circumstanced, be their principles ever so wild or contrary to Scripture, would be able to call on the Government to do that which would be disgraceful to a Protestant country.
 Mr. Hume  said, nothing was so much required throughout the country as this bill. He entirely approved of the spirit of the Solicitor-general's remarks, and he was convinced that they would be approved in every part of the country. If this was a Government job, as had been insinuated, he wished they would bring forward more such jobs. Let them go on with such jobs, and then see how they would be applauded from one side of the country to the other.
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the noble Lord would make an exception in favour of his motion, which stood for the 6th of June, respecting the Bank of England.
 Mr. Hume  thought, on the contrary, that the rule should be strictly enforced, or not laid down at all. He considered the functions of the Members of a committee similar to jurymen, and not admitting of any absence.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was a monstrous doctrine to say, that any individual in the country was not amenable to this House. He had seen the Lord Chancellor before a committee of this House; and he had never heard that any individual was exempted, if his presence was necessary for the purposes of justice. Of course, it must rest with the discretion of the committee, but if they thought it necessary, he hoped they would have the judges before them. If necessary, he would be ready to move or to second a motion, on any occasion, to call the judges to the bar of the House.
 Mr. Blewitt  thought, that it would be more respectful to ask the judges to communicate their decision to the House than to make a motion on the subject.
 Mr. Godson  said, it was not the notes of the judges that were called for, but the shorthand writer's notes, which the committee might call for, if they pleased, without the authority of the House.
 Mr. Godson  asked, whether they were going to discuss the principle of the bill after all? He had understood the noble Lord to say, that he did not intend to take the discussion on the principle of the measure at present, but the hon. and learned Solicitor-general had gone so deeply into the subject that he (Mr. Godson) almost thought the discussion ought to proceed.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  begged to know, why the county of Middlesex was excepted out of the bill? This was the more inexplicable, because every one who knew the county must be aware, that there was no county court in England, Ireland, or Scotland, in which the administration of justice was so objectionable as in the Middlesex County Court.
 Mr. Blackstone  inquired, as the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) was willing to apply the principle of this clause to prisons, why he hesitated to extend it to workhouses? He could assure the noble Lord, that the Dissenters did not
 1223
 Sir A. Dalrymple  expressed his entire concurrence in the remarks of his hon. Friend who had just sat down. He had presented a petition to the House against the clause, signed by a most respectable body of persons, and he should feel it his duty to vote against it.
 Sir C. Grey  recommended the hon. Baronet to withdraw his opposition. He had not known when he before spoke, that the judges had delivered their judgments from written papers, which there could be no objection to have printed for the use of the House. He did not recede from his proposition, that the House could not come to any conclusion as to the opinions of the judges which were laid before them on the authority of Mr. Gurney, or any shorthand writer in the world.
 Sir C. Grey  would cheerfully support the appointment of a committee, but beyond that, he was unwilling to express any positive opinion on the course which it was proposed to pursue. In regard to the second motion which the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Attorney-general, had submitted for the consideration of the House, he wished to say a few words. That motion was, that the notes of the shorthand writer,
 1209
 Sir C. B. Vere  said, that to take money from the public funds for the support of other creeds than that of the Established Church of the country, was virtually to separate that Church from the State. But there were other difficulties in the way, arising out of the multiplicity of sects in existence. It was quite impossible, he believed, to say how many sects there were. If this principle was admitted, this assistance must be given to any number, and any number of members might be employed; and this in itself would be extremely inconvenient.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  observed, that the
 1213
 Sir E. Knatchbull  observed, that this was giving Government greater power than a private Member of the House, and no individual Member had now any possible chance of bringing forward any measure, except on the special direction of the House, and he did not know how that was to be obtained.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  could not help thinking, that it would have been better if notice had been given of the motion brought forward by the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Attorney-general; but, if the course which had been followed was satisfactory to the House, so let it be. He hoped, however, after what had fallen from those who had heard the decision of the judges, that it would be found, that that decision was expressed in a manner different from what had been represented by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney-general.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  concurred in the principal part of the opinions of his hon. Friend, but he deprecated the idea of throwing the onus of pronouncing upon the question of privilege upon the Speaker. He agreed with his hon. Friend, however, that the Attorney-general should give notice of his motion. If the House agreed to the appointment of the committee at once, it would not, in his opinion, display that sound judgment which befitted the circumstance and the occasion, but would rather prove itself hasty and precipitate in its proceedings. If the hon. and learned Gentleman had moved for a copy of the record, and the short-hand writers' notes, confining himself to these alone, he should have had no objection to it; but he could not agree to the motion for a committee.
 Captain Pechell  must express his opinion, that the expense, whatever it might be, and whether it were to come from the fee fund or from the the county, would be cheerfully paid by the people.
 Sir G. H. Smyth  thought the noble Lord would be compelled to give up this measure ultimately, although he might that night succeed in getting a majority in its favour. He admitted that Dissenters and Roman Catholics ought to have the privilege of receiving religious consolation from their ministers, but he objected to any clause of this kind, because he knew that Roman Catholic priests and dissenting preachers were not satisfied with administering consolation to those who belonged to their own sects, but that they would interfere with those who did not belong to them. He knew instances in which Roman Catholic and Dissenting teachers endeavoured to force their principles upon others—
 1220 Hear," and a cry of "divide.
 The Attorney-General  said, as far as he was concerned, he felt the most sincere respect and reverence for the judges, and he believed, that the judges of the Queen's Bench had, on this occasion, acted most honestly and conscientiously. But at the same time, that the committee should be fettered by any such contract as that proposed by the hon. Baronet, was a proposition he utterly disclaimed. The Lord Chancellor, as had been stated by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, had attended a committee of this House, and other judges had done the same, without any scruples.
 The Attorney-General  begged to explain. He ought to state, for the information of the House, that the judges of the Court of Queen's Bench were of opinion that the Speaker personally would not be liable to an action, but that the printer and all the officers of the House, acting under the authority of the House, would. The motion he had made rested on this ground, that the Court of Queen's Bench having decided the case in question, and in favour of the plaintiff, it was now indispensably necessary that the House should give directions what course he was to pursue. If the judgment should be entered on the record, a wilt of inquiry would be issued and execution levied, unless a writ of error should be brought; it was, therefore, necessary the House should come to a conclusion what course should be pursued.
 The Attorney-General  observed, that it was to prevent all possibility of misunderstanding as to what the judges had laid down, that he moved for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the whole of the proceedings. But he was sure that there really was no substantial difference between the opinions expressed by the judges and the statement he had made to the House. For what did the difference alluded to by the hon. Member for Sussex amount to? It was quite clear, that it was unnecessary for the learned judges to say that the House of Commons might publish that which all mankind may publish—namely, matter that was not of a criminatory nature, and which did not affect the character of any individual. Then with regard to the power of commitment, the hon. Gentleman had confirmed his statement, because he said that the learned judges had drawn a distinction between the cases in which the House had power to commit, and the cases in which, as the court asserted, the House had not the power to commit. That was exactly what he (the Attorney-general) had laid down as the doctrine propounded by the learned judges, He maintained, that that doctrine was entirely new; for
 1198
 The Attorney-General  rose to call the attention of the House to a subject closely connected with the privileges of the House, and, as he believed, intimately connected with the best interests of the people of the kingdom at large—a subject which involved the infraction of a principle which, for the last two centuries, had remained unquestioned—a subject in which every Member of the House must feel deeply interested. The House, in the exercise of that which had hitherto been always considered its undoubted privilege, had ordered that certain papers should be communicated to the public with the view, on the one hand, of informing the public mind, and, on the other, of enabling the House effectually to perform its duties. One of the papers so ordered to be published related to the management of the gaol of Newgate, and pointed out various abuses in the management of that institution. Amongst other things, it stated, that the morals of the prison were corrupted by the introduction of obscene publications. The publication of that
 1193 v. 1194 1195 v. 1196 v.
 The Attorney-general  believed, from the acknowledged accuracy of Mr. Gurney, that the House might rely on the correctness of the shorthand notes. If, then, such was the case, surely for their own sakes, as well as for the sakes of the judges, they ought to have the exact grounds upon which the decision had been made, and the precise terms in which it was delivered, laid before the committee. When those notes were laid before the House, it would be found, that the statement he had made was fully borne out by the facts.
 The Attorney-General  said, the right hon. Baronet had taken the same view of the duties of the committee as himself. The committee would do nothing but inquire. He could not help saying, considering, that inquiry was the only object in view, that the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite were out of place, more particularly so, as he had in-tended to put the hon. and learned Gen-man upon the committee. He again repeated, that nothing would be done by the committee but inquire.
 Mr. Pakington  must declare his opinion that much in the bill was exceedingly objectionable. He would have been prepared to oppose the measure on the second reading, if the noble Lord had not arranged that the discussion of the principle should be taken after the reference to committee. Under the provisions of the bill a very considerable number of appointments were contemplated, such as chairman, receiver-general, clerk, and a variety of other officers, the salaries of all whom were to be defrayed, it was probable, from what was to be called the county fee fund. Now it was the opinion of every Gentleman whom he had consulted, and decidedly it was his own opinion, that this fee fund would be found quite inadequate and he wished to know, therefor, whether the noble Lord was prepared in
 1215
 Mr. Pakington  read the first passage of the clause, and said, he must protest against the principle of making religious instruction dependent on numbers. If the principle was a sound and good principle, that persons not members of the established church confined in our gaols should be provided with religious instruction according to their own tenets, for if they amounted to fifty in number, it must be an equally sound principle for forty-nine prisoners—it would be an absurdity, a gross insult to common sense, to say, that religious instruction ought to be withheld from forty-nine prisoners, which would be given to them it' they had only another partner in crime. Religious instruction was a blessing which should be given to all; and the only question was, in what way the Legislature was bound to provide it. There was another objectionable point in the clause, and that was, the discre-
 1219
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that this clause did not form a part of the original bill brought forward by her Majesty's Government, last session, but it was subsequently introduced by the hon. Member for Knaresborough. But though he must do the Government the justice to say that they did not originally propose that there should be in all the prisons salaried teachers for every religious persuasion which could be found to germinate in this country, yet he must say, that they yielded without much reluctance to the proposition, or, in other words, he might say, that they adopted it with considerable alacrity. What was the clause? It was neither more nor less than a declaration by the Legislature, so far as that House was at present concerned, that there was no distinction whatever between the truth or falsehood of different forms of religion and belief. If it could be said that all religions were equally true, it might, in like manner, be Said, that all were equally false. The proposition, which was now adopted by her Majesty's Ministers, recognised the principle that whatever men, or any set of men, to the number of fifty, believed to be true, shall be taught as truth by persons paid by the Government. That was the principle which he protested against last year, and he felt it his duty not less earnestly to oppose it now. There was no difference between adopting this principle for persons confined in a prison, and applying it to any other aggregation of human beings; and if the principle were recognised in one case, it must be extended to others, and it would be equally the duty of the Government to hire chaplains of different creeds for different persons to be found on board our ships of war, and for our military regiments. The hon. Member for Knaresborough last year stated that the clause would apply to only three or four places in the empire,
 1218
 Sir R. Inglis  repeated, that unless there was an understanding, that the committee were not to call the judges before them, he should divide the House.
 Sir R. Inglis  asked whether the committee were to have power to send for the judges? Before he consented to this motion, therefore, he should wish to know whether the committee meant to exercise that power? He did not believe, that any person would consent to a motion that the judges of the land should be brought to the Bar of the House; and what the House in its collective capacity could not do, ought not to be given to a body of fifteen or twenty private gentlemen. So that, unless he heard a statement from the Attorney-general and the noble Lord, the leader of her Majesty's Government in that House, that they did not intend to call the judges before the committee, he, for one, should divide the House on the question.
 Sir R. Inglis  only wished to ask his noble Friend and the Attorney-general, whether they intended to call the judges before the committee?
 Sir R. Inglis  rose to submit to the House the impropriety of placing on this committee those hon. Gentlemen whose opinions, they having served on a former and similar committee, were now matters of record. He thought it would not be wise to place the same Gentlemen on the present committee, and although he had not divided the House on the question that a committee be appointed, still he was strongly disposed to take a division upon this point, and on the propriety of producing the notes of the short-hand writer as evidence of the terms in which the decision of the judges had been delivered. If the House insisted on the production of those short-hand notes, he contended that they would be arrogating to them-selves a jurisdiction which had never before been claimed by the House of Commons, and which, he was persuaded, would be alike injurious to the House and to the people. In such a case they would practically be calling the judges of the land to the Bar of the House, and putting them to trial on the evidence of the short-hand
 1211
 Sir R. Inglis  had his doubts if the matter in question were such a breach of privilege as to justify the House in proceeding, instanter with respect to it, as the hon. and learned Gentleman proposed. If any difference greater than another existed in the minds of the people of these kingdoms, between them and this House, it was in regard to the extent of the privileges, claimed by this House. No one could doubt what had been the current of public opinion upon this subject two years ago. The House should pause before it committed itself in any other quarrel of a similar character with the legal authorities of the country. On that occasion, he had called on the House to pause; he now called on it to do the same thing; the grounds were in their recollection. If the case were a breach of privilege, then it was certainly entitled to a pre-audience of all other business before the House, and he should bow to the decision. But if it were not—and if he understood the hon. and learned Gentleman correctly it was not, inasmuch as the Judges of the Court of Queen's-Bench had only decided on a question submitted to them by that House—then he did not consider that there was any necessity for the precipitate course proposed by the Attorney-general. The Attorney-general stated distinctly, that the decision of the Court of Queen's Bench would prevent either House of Parliament from publishing matters for the instruction and enlightenment of the people of England. But unless enlightenment and instruction could be conveyed in no other forms of publication than those of libels, he did not see the relevancy of the hon. and learned Gentleman's deduction, as affecting the question at issue. If, as he had said before, the House decided that the question was one of pure privilege, then he should bow to that decision, though he might not acquiesce in it; but if it did not, he should venture to suggest to the hon. and learned Gentleman that, perhaps, it would be better, as it certainly was more formal, to give notice of his motion for the committee. The hon. Ba-
 1199
 Sir R. Peel  thought, under the special circumstances of the case, it was indis-
 1202
 Sir Robert Peel  declined serving on the committee, which was appointed.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that chiefly in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman near him (Mr. Pemberton), he wished particularly to ascertain what the precise objects were for which the committee was to be appointed. He a apprehended, that the committee was not to be required to express any decision whatever. He conceived that the whole matter was open for their investigation; that they were to examine all the important questions which the case suggested, but that they would have no power to decide. The committee would examine fully, and lay before the House, all the important considerations which might arise during the investigation, and it would then be for the House to decide. Whether the House was to acquiesce in the decision, or whether they should determine to resist, or to have the powers and privileges confirmed by a legislative act—all these questions would be settled by the decision of the House, and not the decision of the committee. It was upon these grounds that he had supported the motion for the appointment of
 1210
 Sir Robert Peel  took the opportunity of his being appointed to serve on the committee to state his opinion, that there ought to be some fixed rule laid down with regard to the attendance of members on private committees. He wished to know whether it were understood to be the rule of the House, that a Member should be present during the whole of the evidence, or whether it were competent to him, after the absence of a day, to attend the committee during the remainder of its sittings? He was now a member of a private committee, on the subject of which his constituents were much interested; and he much feared that he could not consent to be named on this committee, if a stringent construction were put on the rule to which he had referred with respect to private business.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  observed, that it was necessary the committee should have the judgments of the judges before them, and as they were written judgments, there could be no difficulty in obtaining them. The committee would then have the exact reasons of the judges before them. The judgments would be printed in a few weeks, and circulated amongst the Members; and it would be no disrespect to the judges, but, on the contrary, it would be respectful to them to desire to know what were the reasons they assigned for their decision.
 Mr. Wynn  disclaimed the doctrine, that the judges could not be called before this House. Suppose a motion to be laid on the Table of the House, containing a charge of corruption against a judge. It used to be the practice to appoint a committee of corruption for the express purpose of inquiring into the course of justice. It was not likely that there would be any temptation to summon the judges before the committee, and if any individual were to attempt to exercise such privilege the committee would check it. But it would be better to let the discussion drop here.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  thought, there could be no manner of doubt, that any Member having matters to state, which he thought related materially to privileges of the House, was fully entitled to pre-audience. He thought, too, that nothing could be less precipitate, or less objectionable, than the course proposed in this instance to be pur-
 1201
 Sir W. Rae  objected to the Inspector-General of Prisons in Scotland being a member of the general board.
 Sir W. Rae  moved, as an amendment, that the words "inspectors of prisons" be omitted from the clause.
 Lord Stormont  thought, that as the inspector was the servant of the board he would, by being made a member of it, be made a judge in his own case.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that it appeared to him that the noble Lord, in describing the miseries which existed in Canada, had fallen very far short of the truth. If he understood the noble Lord, he supposed that the whole of the existing grievances would cease the moment the measure was passed which was proposed. He could not conceive why. He could think that it would do so if it were carried out liberally, and with the consent of the people of both provinces; but to jump hand over head to it, before consulting the people, would be most improper. The effect would be annihilate the French Canadians as a party. He believed they were the worst treated, or nearly so, since their conquest, of any of the races, and if a measure were passed to unite both provinces and by that means sacrifice the French Canadians, they would by that means destroy a most amiable and excellent people. They proposed, then, that they should be sacrificed to what was called the British party, but that would only be an additional outrage upon Canada. With regard to the course now suggested by the Government, if they had proposed to go on flippantly with this legislative union, there would have been grave complaints of their proceeding in so solemn a matter without learning what it was that the people wanted. Now, however, when they talked of pausing before they acted effectively, they were taunted with acting with uncertainty. Was it not better, however, to be cautious, and to ascertain how far the measure would be acceptable to those parties who were most interested than to proceed hastily to determine upon
 1287
 Captain Wood  was strongly opposed to the bill, as it tended greatly to increase the powers of the police, and was, in some respects, republican in its tendency.
 Mr. Fox Mottle,  with reference to the Police Bill before the House, thought it right to express his own thanks, and the thanks of the party to which he was attached to the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Hawes), for the clear, lucid, and distinct manner in which he had explained them. In vindicating the bills now before the House, the bon. Gentleman had in fact vindicated the conduct of the committee, of which he was the chairman. The debt which the country owed to the hon. Gentleman for the course he had taken, as well upon the committee as in the House, in reference to this most important subject, was greater than he could express; and if any person either in that House or out of it, should venture to charge the hon. Gentleman with introducing and supporting a tyrannical measure, he (Mr. F. Maule) was satisfied that the time would come, and shortly too, when not only the hon. Gentleman's own constituents, but the constituency of the whole of the metropolitan districts, would thank him for the pains he had taken to amend the police jurisdiction
 1301
 Sir E. Wilmot  differed from his hon. Friend who had just sat down, and was decidedly favourable to the proposed plan of giving the magistrate summary jurisdiction in certain cases.
 Mr. Pryme  objected to that part of the measure which gave magistrates a summary jurisdiction in cases of felony, without the intervention of a jury. Of late years, there had seemed a growing disposition to limit the functions of juries, and as he did not approve of such a departure from the law, it was his intention to raise the objection in the Committee.
 The Solicitor-General  said, if the right hon. Baronet had read the clause through, he would have found that it did not render the holding petty sessions weekly imperative, but left the matter open to the discretion of the magistrates. Now, with respect to not holding petty sessions in public-houses, he could only say that this was the case in Ireland, and that they were only assimilating the law of the two countries in this particular. It was found to be a good practice in Ireland, and he could not see why it should not be equally so for this country. In reference to the objection of
 1304
 Mr. Fox Maule  moved the second reading of the Police Courts Bill.
 Mr. Fox Maule  stated, that there was this necessity for the bill, namely, that the Metropolitan Police Act expired within a very short time.
 Mr. Fox Maule  would not enter into the details of the bill now, as he thought that had much better be done in committee. Of this, he apprehended there could be no doubt: that it was absolutely necessary to the public comfort, that there should be a well-regulated police. When he introduced the bill, he was perfectly well aware, that it would expose both the Government and himself to a considerable degree of obloquy; but that he was ready to submit to, if the measure would conduce to the comfort of the metropolis. The hon. and gallant Member had alluded to a despotic power of entering houses, which he assumed to be given to the police by this bill. He (Mr. F. Maule) was not aware of any such provision. There was a clause which empowered them to enter gaming-houses under certain circumstances.
 Lord Granville Somerset  was not friendly to the main provisions of the bill. He thought, indeed, that the measure could only be justified by the tyrant plea put forward by the hon. Member on the opposite side of the House. But, whatever the ultimate fate of the bill might be, he certainly hoped it would not be sent to a select committee. He was decidedly of opinion, that every provision of a bill of this kind ought to be discussed in the face of day.
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that, besides those clauses relating to summary jurisdiction, there were some extraordinary provisions contained in this bill which well deserved the consideration of the House. No doubt the subject of summary jurisdiction was one of both nicety and importance; but, without, for the present, touching on that part of the measure, he must say, that he should strongly object to the 32nd Clause, which went the length of disfranchising the clerks of the magistrates throughout the whole country.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman was quite right, His
 1291
 Lord J. Russell  thought it necessary to say a few words, as well on what had fallen from the hon. Member for Liskeard, as on what had been observed by the right hon. Member for Tamworth. With regard to the hon. Member for Liskeard, he (Lord J. Russell) certainly could not have expected, that he would have taken what he said in a sense, so directly opposite to that which he intended. The hon. Gentleman asked him (Lord J. Russell) whether he approved of the principle that the executive Government of a colony should be carried on with a minority in the House of Assembly. What he really said was, that the executive should be carried on in such a way, as that their measures should be acceptable and agreeable to the representatives of the people, and that he saw no reason why the Government should not agree to adopt the measures approved of by a majority of the colonists. He certainly did say, as he still thought, that it was not wise to day down as a principle that the Canadian constitution, or any colonial constitution, should be an exact copy of the British constitution, unless the analogy could be completely carried into effect. And he thought the right hon. Baronet himself would say, that we could not have a Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs at New Brunswick who
 1288 1289 1290
 Lord John Russell  said, that if these police bills were likely to be really improved by referring them to a Select Committee, he should certainly think it would be advisable to accept of that proposition. But, although there were certain bills with regard to which such a course might be advisable, he did not consider the present to be of that description. There were two classes of persons to whom these bills applied, whose conduct required some stringent provisions. He alluded first of all to pawnbrokers, who were instigators of the crimes so frequently committed by juvenile offenders—by children of nine, ten, and eleven years of age. These young offenders would not have the same inducements to commit crimes, if it were not for the facilities afforded them by pawnbrokers, who receive their stolen
 1300
 Lord John Russell  said: It is now my duty, as a Minister of the Crown, to call upon Parliament to lay the foundation of a permanent settlement of the affairs of Canada. I think, upon general grounds, there are sufficient reasons why Parliament should at present be asked to take some step which may indicate the policy that Parliament will, in future, pursue with regard to those complicated and disturbed affairs. We have had various commissions of inquiry—we have had reports from those commissions laid upon the Table of the House; and the abrupt termination of the mission of Lord Durham made it, in our opinion, inexpedient to appoint any other person with similar authority to report again with regard to the facts of the case, or to state the views which he might take of the best manner of meeting its difficulties. But there are other and special reasons why, in my opinion, Parliament should be ready now to declare its opinion with regard to the principle upon which the legislation of Canada is ill future, to be guided. When Parliament last year passed an act, which
 1255 habeas corpus. 1256 1257 1258 1259 sine quâ non 1260 1261 1262 1263 1264 1265 1266 1267 1268 1269 Interruption. Cries of "Order!" 1270 1271 "Resolved, That the experience of the past year confirms the House in the opinions then expressed, and they are still of opinion that a united legislature for the Canadas, on the
 1272 1273 "In this report (Lord Durham's) your Majesty's faithful subjects find many statements deeply affecting the social and political relations and conditions of Upper and Lower Canada, and recommendations of several important changes in the form and practice of the constitution. It is with much concern your Majesty's faithful subjects find that your Majesty's High Commissioner has strongly urged the adoption of these changes by your Majesty in the Imperial Parliament, without waiting for the opinion which may be formed of them by the people the most deeply and immediately affected by them. Under these circumstances, we have caused a report to be drawn up by a select committee of the House of Representatives, which contains matter referring to this subject, as well as to our relations with the people of the United States, which we respectfully submit for your Majesty's consideration, and, in the fullest confidence in your Majesty and the Imperial Parliament, we commit ourselves to that superintending power to which, as loyal people, we owe implicit obedience." 1274
 Mr. Hawes  was exceedingly glad that an opportunity had occurred of explaining the ground-work on which this bill had been introduced by her Majesty's Government. It had been said that bills so unconstitutional and tyrannical as those regarding the improvement of the metropolitan police had never previously been before Parliament, and his hon. Friend who had moved the rejection of this bill had used language nearly as strong. Yet in the whole course of the speech which his hon. Friend had just made to the House, he had heard nothing which affected the principle of the measure; nor could he gather any thing even against its details that might not be removed in committee. And certainly he had heard nothing from his hon. Friend which went to show that the measure contained anything either despotic or unconstitutional. As a member of one of the districts of the metropolis, he had felt it his duty to pay his best attention to the improvement of the metropolitan police. There was no subject of so much importance—none that so generally affected the comfort and happiness of all classes of society, the poor as well as the rich, and there was no portion of society that suffered so much from the inefficiency of the police as the poorer classes of the community. Guided by those principles, he was fully prepared to defend this bill, and to acknowledge with sincerity the gratitude which he felt to her Majesty's Government for the good they had done by the introduction of such measures, founded upon the report of a select committee of that House; and he would at once declare that he did not know where they could have had a better, or a surer groundwork. That committee sat for two entire Sessions. The members composing it had done him the honour to appoint him chairman, and he certainly had not been proposed to that office by any poli-
 1295 1296 J. Russell 1297 "We have reserved for the conclusion of our report, an earnest recommendation to Government, and to Parliament, to take into their early consideration the practicability of establishing some tribunal for the speedy trial of young offenders, charged with comparatively light offences. The present process of the law is too cumbrous, and too dilatory in regard to cases of this description, and neither gives adequate protection to innocence, nor ensures a duly a regulated punishment to guilt. The committal to prison for trial involves frequently a period of confinement longer than that which follows actual conviction, and a stigma upon character, not justified by the moral quality of the offence with which a young person is charged." 1298 1299
 Mr. C. Buller  was glad to hear that the noble Lord was favourable to the plan of the union of the two provinces, and he was only sorry that he' had not adopted a still more valuable suggestion contained in the report of the Earl of Durham, for the union of all the five provinces, in his opinion by far the most valuable part of the Report. He had been deeply grieved at it, because he believed that without it the Executive Government would be imperfect; and if the Government were not prepared to adopt that principle, he believed that it would have been far more honest, and more prudent, and more really liberal, to do away with the farce of a responsible Government. He should not now enter into the consideration of the argument of the noble Lord. He was happy that there were at that moment strangers in the House,—he meant rather to say that be was happy that the debate in which they were then engaged would be conveyed to the notice and attention of the delegates to this House of the representatives of some of the most loyal of our North American colonies. They had come with the instructions of their countrymen, commissioned to represent their case to the Government and to demand redress. In the House of Assembly, three executive
 1283 1284 1285 1286
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed the motion. He objected to several clauses, particularly that which gave to the police a despotic power to enter houses.
 Colonel Sibthorp  seconded the amendment, saying that he did not approve of in-
 1294
 Mr. Cresswell  moved the insertion of a new clause with a view to prevent parties from removing causes under 50 l. certiorari
 Mr. Darby  thought that some of the provisions of the bill were most objectionable, especially those which took away the right of trial by jury, and substituted a fine for imprisonment in certain cases of felony. He wished, in common with his hon. Friend, the Member for Kent, that these bills might be sent to a select committee. If they were not, he was convinced it would be impossible for them to pass through the House.
 Mr. Darby  thought, that the principle of this bill was a very extraordinary one to come from the other side of the House. In the Quarter Sessions, they were not content with a full bench of magistrates, an experienced chairman, jury, and a bar attending, as securities for the proper administration of justice, but they must also have a barrister presiding; whereas in this summary jurisdiction they would have no bar, no barrister, no jury—but leave the decision of a felony to two magistrates. As to that part of the bill which prevented the holding of sessions in public houses, he thought it a very unnecessary interference with the discretion of the magistrates, and objectionable as throwing additional expense upon counties.
 Mr. Goulburn,  in order to secure for himself and those on his side of the House an opportunity of expressing their sentiments upon the proposition of the noble Lord, both now and on the resumption of the debate, begged to move, that the further consideration of the resolutions be postponed till Monday next, which the noble Lord had omitted.
 Mr. John Jones  objected to the second clause of the bill, and thought that the measure was brought forward at a very improper time. It was a most bungling piece of legislation, and required the fullest scrutiny that a full House could give it.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that the course proposed by the noble Lord, was one of much unfairness. If no discussion were to take place at that time, it would go forth to the public that the House of Commons assented to the opinions which the noble Lord had expressed. He could only say, that he had heard the statement of the noble Lord with deep regret. The plan which had been proposed would, if adopted, do nothing more nor less than continue the system which had been pursued for the last twenty years, and against which the Canadian people had so loudly and so justly complained. The noble Lord, as he understood him, proposed to give the British population a preponderating influence, by means of some territorial arrangement, and yet the noble Lord talked of impartiality and justice. He was very sorry the noble Lord had not profited from the lesson which the passing of the resolutions which had been agreed to in a former Session, might have taught him. He could not recollect ever having heard of the people of Lower Canada complaining of the separation of the colonies. What they complained of was, the constitution of the Legislative Council, which was the cause of all the evils which had arisen, as, from its construction, it was impossible for that body even to act in harmony with the Legislative Assembly. And what did the noble Lord now propose with respect to that body? Why, that it should be composed entirely of placemen, and that there should be nothing like representation. The noble Lord proposed no legislative measure with a view to effect an immediate settlement of all or of any of the questions in dispute, but postponed all legislation till 1882, he meant 1842, The noble Lord also proposed to continue and to increase the powers of the Governor, who had already suspended the Habeas Corpus Act, and, in fact, established a perfect despotism. In protesting against the plan of the noble Lord, he must also tell the noble Lord, that the course which he proposed was not the way to secure
 1276
 Mr. Hume  objected to some clauses of the bill, particularly to that by which the police magistrates were to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund. This was to place them on a footing with the judges. An annual voting of the money by the public would be a much better principle. He hoped the hon. Baronet who announced his opposition to the bill at a future stage would at once state what were his main objections to the bill. Various vague and unfounded reports were in circulation, and it was very desirable the public mind should be disabused concerning them.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  hoped the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone would not press his motion against the second reading, and allow the bill to pass through its present stage without a division! He must say, that the speech which they had heard from the hon. Member for Lambeth had satisfied his mind on many points, and although he wished still to draw the attention of the House, to the clauses regarding the establishment of Courts for Small Debts, he should reserve himself until the bill was in committee, and he hoped tile hon. Baronet would not persist in his amendment.
 Mr. Wakley  thought, that the course that the government was pursuing with
 1292
 Mr. Wakley  rose to call the attention of the House to the salaries which this bill awarded, and to the class of persons from whom the new magistrates were exclusively to be selected. They found of late years that no opportunity was forgotten of introducing a person of the legal profession, whenever an office was to be filled up. He wanted to know why the Home Secretary was to be bound to choose a barrister of seven years' standing to fill the office of magistrate, when there were hundreds of thousands of persons, not members of the legal profession, who were better qualified to perform the duties of the magisterial bench. He trusted, that the hon. Member for Marylebone would not divide against the second reading of the bill, as there appeared to be a very general opinion in the House that the bill ought to go to committee. But when they came to the consideration of the clause which imposed the restriction to which he had adverted, he certainly hoped the Government would be disposed to give way upon that point. The amount of the salaries proposed to be given to the magistrates appeared to him to be most objectionable and most indefensible. The two police commissioners who had discharged their duties with so much credit to themselves, and so much advantage to the public, received each a salary of 800 l. l. 1. 1302 l. l., l l
 Sir Benjamin Hall  said, he should take the sense of the House against this Bill; to which, as to the one just disposed of, he believed public feeling was decidedly opposed. This Bill would extend the jurisdiction of the Police Magistrates, who were to be increased to twenty-seven, over a circuit of fifteen miles round Charing-Cross, at a great additional expense to the country. The Government were to have the power of appointing these magistrates, who were to receive salaries varying from 1,400 l. l. 1293 s.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  was not one of those who would oppose the second reading of the bill. But there was such a large mass of business already before the House, that he doubted whether they should be able to afford time and consideration sufficient for a measure of that importance. He, therefore, was of opinion, that it would be better discussed in a Select Committee than in a committee of the whole House.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  objected to the provision rendering it imperative to hold petty sessions weekly, and said, that it was absolutely necessary to allow them to be held at public-houses. This was the practice at present, and it could not be departed from without great inconvenience and expense. There were several other parts of this bill to which he entertained strong objections, but he did not think that the proper opportunity for pressing them.
 The Attorney-General  observed, that, in point of fact, the clause to which the noble Lord had alluded, had nothing whatever to do with the principle of the bill. He had no hesitation in saying, that it had been inserted  per incuriam,
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  agreed in many of the objections to this bill. He thought it had been drawn up without sufficient practical knowledge. But with respect to that part which gave magistrates the power to inflict a fine of 5 l.
 Sir Robert Inglis  trusted, that the noble Lord, in consideration of the human suffering which this trade daily occasioned, would not lose one hour in taking the necessary steps to prevent it.
 Sir R. Inglis  rose to put the question, of which he had given notice, with respect to the Foreign Slave-trade. The House would recollect, that the noble Lord, the Foreign Secretary, had pledged himself and the Government to use every means in their power for the suppression of the foreign slave-trade. All the accounts, however, both public and private, which reached him, induced him to believe, that that inhuman trade was carried on to a greater extent, and with more horror than was ever previously known. He trusted that the noble Lord would now state to the House what mea-
 1254
 Sir Robert Peel  spoke on the question of adjournment. Had he addressed the House before that question was put, he would, he conceived, have deprived himself of the power of again offering his sentiments on
 1277 1278 "Moreover, the state of the two Canadas is such, that neither the feelings of the parties concerned, nor the interests of the Crown, nor the colonies themselves, will admit of a
 1279 "In existing circumstances, the conclusion to which the foregoing considerations lead me, is, that no time should be lost in proposing to Parliament a bill for repealing, the 31st of George 3rd, restoring the union of the Canadas under one legislation, and re-constituting them as one province." John Russell: 1280 "It is expedient to make temporary provisions for the government of Lower Canada, in order that Parliament may be enabled, after mature deliberation, to make permanent arrangements for the constitution and government of the said province, upon such a basis as may best secure the rights and liberties, and promote the interests, of all classes of her Majesty's subjects in the said province." 1281 1282
 Sir Robert Peel  had been misunderstood by the noble Lord if he supposed that he meant to press for peremptory legislation this Session. When the noble Lord announced his abandonment of the former measures, he did not press for peremptory legislation. All he asked was, that if they were not prepared to legislate now, they would not call on him to affirm the abstract principle of union, without telling I him what were to be the details of the; plan on which it was to be effected.
 Sir Robert Peel  wished for an explanation from the noble Lord upon a point connected with this bill. It had been publicly stated that he (Sir Robert Peel) had in that House expressed his opinion that it was on the whole better that the City Police should be amalgamated with the general metropolitan police, but that in deference to the very general opinion expressed in the City against the measure he had consented to waive his opinion, whereas the Government were adhering to the principle of amalgamation, and determined to follow it out. A contrast much to his disadvantage had been drawn between his abandonment of his principle, and the supposed adherence of Government to theirs. Now he distinctly understood that the bill was brought in with the consent of the Government, they being pledged to support the principle on which it was based, yet that on the whole they came to the same conclusion as himself, that it was expedient to force on such a body a system of police to which they were opposed. He wished to know from the noble Lord if he had correctly stated what occurred en the occasion.
 Mr. Clay  could not concur in the views of his hon. Friend who had just sat down. In his opinion no justice was so dear as bad justice, at whatever price it might be obtained; and as they were about to give large powers to the magistrates appointed under this bill, he thought it was incumbent upon the House to give such an amount of remuneration as would enable them to obtain persons competent wisely, usefully, and honestly, to discharge the functions of the office they were about to impose upon them. Neither could he concur in the view of his hon. Friend with respect to the impropriety of limiting the choice of the magistrates to members of the bar. It was perfectly true, that gentlemen in other walks of life might be found fully competent upon all general points to perform the functions of magistrates, but under the extended jurisdiction of the courts now proposed to be established, it was more than probable that legal points might arise which would require a sound knowledge of the law in the person who presided. For his own part he fully concurred in the principle of the bill, and should give it his very cordial support.
 Viscount Palmerston  had stated some time ago, that it was the intention of Government to propose to Parliament a bill to give additional powers with regard to that part of the foreign slave-trade which was carried on under the Portuguese flag. He should already have moved for leave to introduce such a bill, but he wished beforehand to submit to Parliament the correspondence which had taken place between the British and Portuguese Governments upon the subject. That correspondence had been some time in the hands of the printer, but owing to some accidental circumstances, it had not been delivered. He believed, however, that it would be ready in a few days, and as soon as it was produced, he would give notice of the day on which he would move for leave to introduce the bill.
 Sir H. Fleet-wood  said, the question e was about to bring before the House was one of the most important of those which could possibly affect the elective franchise in this country, and he should confine himself as much as possible to the general reasons which led him to move for leave to bring in the bill which he now was about to describe. If, when he gave notice of the present motion for leave to bring in the bill he proposed, he was satisfied that the representation of counties was not sufficient, he was much more so then, for he had received every day further corroboration of the necessity and the justice of extending the franchise as he proposed. It was a measure based upon sound constitutional principles, and it contained nothing to affect in the slightest degree the most timid who dreaded change in the institutions of the country. He had given notice of his motion on the subject long before the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, had pub-
 1343 l. 1344 l. l. l. 1345 l. l. 1346 l.,
 Sir H. Fleetwood  said, it would have been his wish if he had it in his power, seeing the feeling of the House, to withdraw his motion; but he felt when a Member had given notice of a motion, it was his duty to come to a discussion of it. He was anxious to withdraw the motion. If, however, they went to a division, he thought it but fair and right to put a statement right which had been misinterpreted on the part of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell). He certainly understood the noble Lord to say, that the noble Lord's opinions coincided with his own on the present motion, but that in the present Session he could give it no support, and could not promise to give any support to the motion at any future Session; but he was satisfied he was not led to consider, that the noble Lord would pledge himself to oppose it on any future occasion.
 Sir H. Fleetwood  moved for leave to bring in a bill to limit the time of taking the poll at elections of coroners for counties, to one day, and for increasing the number of polling places.
 Mr. Wynn  thought there ought to be some intelligible qualification established for voters; and until that was done, it seemed quite absurd to attempt to bring in any motion.
 Sir H. Fleetwood  wished first of all to have the bill brought in and printed, that it might be circulated throughout the country, and that by that means he might be enabled to receive suggestions relating to it. But if he saw no expectation of carrying the bill this Session, he would adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for Finsbury, and withdraw it for this Session.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman entertained very peculiar notions, for he maintained, that if the children of parents holding different opinions in religion were educated together, the result of the entire would be the production of a kind of negative quantity, and end in no religion at all. There was no country in Europe where the children of different persuasions were not educated together. Let them look at the report of Mr. Nicholls on the state of Belgium and Holland, and they would find the followers of Calvin, the Lutheran and Roman Catholic educated together in amity and perfect good faith. That was the spirit which ought to exist between Christians, and formed a cheering contrast to that bigotry which allowed no
 1390 l. 1391
 Lord Ashley  must say, that when the noble Lord gave notice that he would second his motion, he thought it would have been more courteous to the House if he had stated that he would take that opportunity of withdrawing his former plan, and explaining the nature of that which was to be substituted in its place, as well as to expose the misrepresentations which had been urged against the Government measure. He would only add, that the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, had thought fit to use words throwing into the discussion that gall and bitterness which had not formerly been introduced. He would only say, that he hoped the noble Lord would be prepared to explain what he meant by the terms "offensive" and "mendacious."
 Lord Ashley  admitted, that nothing could be more fair than the noble Lord's proposition; he understood that it was the noble Lord's intention to lay upon the Table certain papers upon which the House would be enabled to form a better judgment of the whole question. But surely the House would see that, as regarded the division now proposed, the greater part of the Gentlemen who sat upon the Opposition side had gone away, under an impression that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) would not oppose the motion for the call of the House, and consequently that no division would take place. Under such circumstances it was quite possible that the Government might obtain what, in their estimation, would be a victory; but it was a victory which he thought would not redound much to their credit.
 Lord Ashley  should be extremely sorry to do anything that was in the least degree annoying to the House, or that for a moment could be regarded as discourteous; but he had no means of knowing that the call of the House would not be as necessary as applied to the new plan, as it was to the old one. The noble Lord, however, had promised that the new plan should be laid upon the Table to-morrow. Under such circumstances he could only say, that as soon as he had seen it, and had had the opportunity of consulting his friends with respect to it, if it should appear not to require a strict attendance of Members when it came to be discussed, he would immediately move that the order for the call of the House be rescinded.
 Lord Ashley  rose, pursuant to notice, to move a call of the House for the 14th of June. He apprehended no opposition, as the noble Lord
 1378
 Lord J. Russell  rose to second the motion, as he had already stated his intention of doing. He would take the same opportunity to state some reasons why he conceived the House should not be influenced by statements in petitions—no doubt honestly intended—but totally at variance with the plan proposed by the committee of the Privy Council. One prevailing error was, to suppose that the plan proposed was intended to apply uniformity to all parishes throughout the kingdom. In the school that was to be established, it was proposed that the persons to be educated in it were not merely to be day scholars, but that they were to live in the house. Therefore it was obvious that neither the system of the National School Society, nor that of the British and Foreign School, would be applicable to it. Under the National Society any child educated must belong to the Established Church, and thus it necessarily became an exclusive school, and those who would send masters for learning to them must be aware that they would be under this exclusive system. If they took the British and Foreign School system, under which the children received instruction in reading the Scriptures, and also religious instruction, either from the Established Church or in conformity with the tenets of the religious societies to which their parents belonged, it was open to other objections. He had always belonged to the British and Foreign School Society, and he was proud and gratified at his connection with it. By the plan of that society, it was provided that Scriptures should be read in the schools belonging to it, and the children should on the Sunday attend divine worship at the church, or attend at the peculiar place of worship of their parents, and also that the children should receive religious instruction, one day in the week, in conformity with the religion of their parents. This system, it was obvious, could not apply to children remaining in the school all the week, and not being under immediate parental superintendence: it was therefore thought necessary, in the plan that was prepared, that they should direct the appointment of a chaplain of the Established Church, and that provision should also be made that the children of Dissenters should be instructed in the peculiar religious doctrines of their parents. It had been assumed that this was the system that was to be established throughout the country.
 1379 1380 1381
 Lord John Russell : The hon. Baronet who has brought forward this motion has stated the reason upon which he founds his motion in a most temperate and judicious manner. He has stated the grounds upon which he thinks the House ought to accede to the motion, both as being consistent with the Reform Bill, and as being an improvement of the present state of the franchise in the counties. There is a part of his argument in which I agree with him, and in which my agreement is well known to the world. I certainly consider that the introduction of the 50 l. l. 1347 l. l. l. l. l. 1348 1349 1350 bonâ fide 1351 bonâ fide 1352 1353
 Lord John Russell  stated, that it was his intention, in the course of a few days, to lay upon the Table certain papers relating to the subject of education. It would be for the noble Lord to say whether he would persevere in his motion for the call of the House after those papers had been produced. If the noble Lord insisted on going to a division now, he (Lord John Russell) should certainly consider himself bound to support him.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that there was no trick that falling men would not practise to endeavour to save themselves; but the noble Lord's trick would not do.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that in the suggestion of the hon. Member for Bridport—that it was desirable upon the pre., sent occasion that those hon. Members who took a large and deep interest in the cause of Parliamentary Reform, should embrace the present opportunity of expressing their candid and unrestrained sentiments—he fully agreed. It was not only due to themselves, to their constituents, and to the country, but also to
 1363 1364 1365 1366
 Mr. Litton  felt, that as the country had been alarmed from one end to the other, at the announcement of the proposed plan of education, they were justified in expecting the fullest explanation from the noble Lord. It had been stated, that the feeling that prevailed had been the result of the misstatements and misrepresentations that had been put forward on the subject. If this were the case, why did the noble Lord shrink from a full discussion of the plan, and show that the objections that had been urged against it had been the result of misrepresentations and
 1389
 Mr. French,  considering that the original motion was to be withdrawn, thought it
 1395
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that during the whole time he had been in Parliament, he bad never seen so extraordinary a course
 1382 1383
 Mr. Warburton  thought it might be fairly collected that a very large majority of the people of England, and of the Members sitting on the liberal side of the House, were not satisfied with the representation of the United Kingdom as it now stood. This being the feeling of a large majority of the people, the question was whether the Members sitting on the liberal side of the House, would be satisfied unless the Government were prepared to take the amendment of the Reform Act in hand. If they were convinced that the Government would act upon that feeling, that they would be for measures of progressive Reform, and that as fast as evils and defects were found in the system of representation they would be prepared to propose amendments, he believed that the people and the liberal Members of the House would be willing to leave the amendment with the Government. If they were told that the Government would take the matter into their own hands—though really in what manner he was precisely to interpret the declarations of the noble Lord he felt considerable difficulty to understand; but if the liberal Members were informed that the Government would take the matter in hand, he was persuaded that on his side of the House there was every disposition to forbearance, and to wait for the measures which the Government might think proper to present to them. He did not think the Liberals were at all impatient. They did not wish to press upon the Government in the present state of the Session to produce a measure for all those amendments they considered necessary. Let the Government declare their willingness to correct the defects of the Reform Bill, and without pressing them to produce any measure this session, all that the liberals would ask was
 1354 1355 1356
 Mr. Hume  regretted the noble Lord had been obliged to give up his plan, but after the misrepresentations that had gone forth respecting it he was not unprepared for such a result. The members of the Church of England, instead of supporting this plan had manifested the utmost opposition to it, and stated that they were most anxious for the extension of education in connexion with the Church, but he believed that their conduct was influenced with the design of maintaining the present state of ignorance throughout the country. He recollected that when he was a member of the committee of the
 1384
 Mr. Hume  quite concurred with the right hon. Baronet that there was no mistake this time. The noble Lord had spoken out manfully, and stated opinions which were very unpalatable to many who formerly supported him. He had distinctly told the House that whatever might be clone in the way of Reform nothing was to be expected from him—for the present at least. He deeply regretted the announcement of the noble Lord, and could not place much dependence on his assurance of what might perhaps be dune in some future Session, but when that Session, as the right hon. Baronet had observed, in reference to another question, would arrive, they did not know? What he had wished to hear, and what he had expected, was an expression not of the noble Lord's opinion merely, but of the whole of his colleagues, and their declaration whether they meant to do anything, or what they meant to do, not prospectively, but immediately. They had been told elsewhere that progressive Reform was the principle on which the present Government were to proceed; and he had expected that by this time they would have been prepared to state the extent and degree of that progressive Reform which they had promised the country they would carry out. The right hon. Baronet had very truly declared, that the speech of the noble Lord had fixed the finality of the Reform Bill as strongly as anything that could fall from his lips. He concurred with that view of the noble Lord's speech, but be could not bring his mind to the belief that a coalition would take place; he had a better opinion of
 1367 1368
 Mr. Phillip Howard  said, if this concession were made to the county voters, without likewise extending a concession to the voters in towns, no permanent satisfaction would be derived. During the long progress of the Reform Bill he had voted with the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), and he then heard, that "the bill, the whole bill, and nothing but the bill" was acceptable to the country. If there were no other reason for inducing him to stand by the noble Lord on this occasion, he should find it in' this, that he coveted not the ignominy of deserting his Friends.
 Mr. Godson  said it was extraordinary,
 1392
 Mr. Sheil  thought, that the observations just made by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets was quite conclusive of the question. There could be no doubt of the noble Lord's right, if he thought proper to press it, of insisting upon his motion for the call of the House; but he would respectfully submit to the noble Lord, as an intimation had been given to him by the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, that the plan was to be changed, whether he would not consult the convenience of hon. Members by not insisting upon the call of the House? The whole matter rested entirely with the noble Lord himself. If he insisted on going to a division he should certainly consider himself bound to vote with him.
 Mr. Slaney  considered it unjust to taunt the noble Lord for giving way in regard to the scheme of education proposed by the committee of the Privy Council, because he was only yielding to the loudly expressed opinions of the country. He was sorry, that the question had been met with so much asperity; but he must say, that if on the one hand there had been exaggerations and misrepresentations on the opposite side of the House, he could not acquit some on the Ministerial benches from having made use of wrong expressions; for instance, the hon. Member for Kilkenny charged the clergy of the Establishment with having neglected the education of their flocks, while in point of fact they had been most forward on all such occasions in giving their aid and example.
 Mr. Slaney  said, he had heard with great satisfaction the declaration of the noble Lord. From the earliest period he (Mr. Slaney) had voted for reform, and in his honest opinion, he believed the noble Lord had done himself honour by the way in which he had spoken on this question. After having voted with the noble Lord for along time, it would have been with deep regret had he been obliged conscientiously to vote against him. After a final settlement had been made of the great question of reform, when concessions had been made by public men, he regretted to see endeavours made to unsettle the Reform Act. He was glad to see, that the present Ministry were not forgetful of the best interests of the country, and were not disposed to break down this great measure for the sake of retaining office. He believed, that the great majority of the country was satisfied with the system of reform as it now stood, with those alterations and changes which the noble Lord would not be unwilling to grant. He looked for nothing personal from any government, but he declared honestly in his place, that he thought the noble Lord had done himself the greatest credit by the manly and straightforward declaration he had made, in spite of the censure to which it would expose him.
 Sir S. Lushington  said that nothing in the world would induce him to vote against the noble Lord's motion. If he did so, he should conceive that he had been guilty of practising a deception upon the House of Commons, because no one who heard his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) the other night, could entertain a doubt that he had assented to the proposition for the call of the House. The only question was, whether, under the circumstances, the noble Lord (Lord Ashley) would deem it expedient to persevere in his motion.
 Mr. Wakley  would only detain the House a very short time, but he thought he should not do justice to his own feelings if he remained entirely silent after what had passed. First of all, he was induced to ask for what purpose the noble Lord and his colleagues had taken office again? He should like very much to have that question answered frankly and distinctly, but he feared, that unless he applied to two great ladies, not very far distant from that place, he should have no frank, candid answer, not one at least that would satisfy his mind. In adopting the course which they had taken, however, he had no hesitation in saying, that they were trifling with the feelings of the people of this empire, and were pursuing a course unprecedented in the history of this country; and the question which he should ask he was the more provoked to put, not on account of the speech of the noble Lord here only, but in consequence of the speech of a noble Lord elsewhere on Friday night last. It was a good Tory
 1370 1371 1372 "Question!" "Oh, oh! 1373
 Mr. Wakley  said, that his experience showed him there were many alterations requisite to be made in the election of coroners, which might be urged without any party or political feeling of any kind. There were many excrescences to prune, and many things to add. As the proposed bill went to remove only one of the evils connected with the office, the change in itself would be nothing, unless they also specified who were to be coroners, and settled the qualification of voters. Under the circumstances, as this would only be the removal of a very trifling amount of the evils, he did hope, that the question would be left to another Session, and he promised he would employ as much industry as he could for the purpose of discovering what ought to be done with reference to the office, and give the measure every aid in another Session of Parliament.
 Mr. Wyse  said he must protest against the withdrawing of the published plan, and had always expressed his objections to giving the public money to any societies whatever. He protested against every arrangement by which these societies were to be understood as standing in the place of the nation. He trusted the noble Lord would consider whether, by giving money to these societies, he would not be giving a bonus to maintain political and religious ascendancy. The Roman Catholics would be excluded by giving the public money to these societies, and he hoped the noble Lord would still recur to his former plan, from which he had been driven by the mistaken clamour and the unfair means that had been used to get up petitions against it. He had at that moment in his possession a petition in favour of the Government scheme, in which it was stated, that the signature of the petitioner had been extorted to a petition against the measure, as he was coming out of a church, by telling him, that the was petitioning in its favour. He did not believe, that the real sense of the people of England had been ascertained, or that it would prove to be really hostile to a scheme of national education on liberal principles. He had presented petitions from 80,000 persons in the North of England in favour of such a measure a year ago, and he saw no reason to induce him to believe, that these persons had since changed their minds. He regretted, that the noble Lord had not given more time to enable the public mind to be rightly informed as to the principle of the Government scheme, and still further, that the noble Lord had not adopted such a course, when he (Mr. Wyse) brought this subject under the consideration of the House on a former occasion, as would have enabled the Government to bring the scheme forward supported by resolutions of that House. As to any obstacles that might be thrown
 1393 1394
 Sir E. Knatchbull  observed, that this was the first time that he had ever heard a Minister of the Crown designate petitions as mendacious and offensive. He appealed to the House whether such observations had not been applied by the noble Lord to the petitions sent to the House on the subject of the Government plan of education. If he was wrong, the noble Lord would have an opportunity of setting him right, and of doing away with an impression which the noble Lord's observations had made on his mind, as well as, he believed, on the minds of other Members. He understood the expressions of the noble Lord to be to the effect that he had described. The hon. Member for
 1386 unâ voce, 1387 l.
 Mr. Ward  said, that he thought, that the declaration of the noble Lord was fully justified by many events. The noble Lord said, that his opinions had been frequently misunderstood by some, and misrepresented by other persons; but all doubts were now cleared up by the speech of the right hon. Baronet opposite. He deeply regretted the determination to which the noble Lord had come; but he would fully admit the honesty and candour which he had exhibited, and the perfect right which he had to announce the opinions in that House which he professed; but all that he denied was, the possibility of holding together a party composed of men, two-thirds of whom passed far beyond the line which had been laid down for them by the declaration of that opinion. He thought, that this was a question which was to decide the fate of the struggle between the two parties, and he believed, that hon. Members must be ready to go to the country prepared with a full explanation of their own views, and without the least reference to those who held the reins of Government. He begged to express his intention to vote for the motion of the hon. Baronet, because he believed it to be unexceptionable in itself, and that no good objection could be made
 1369
 Mr. Pakington  thought the bill brought in by the hon. Baronet was by no means sufficient to meet the required alterations with regard to the election of coroners. He quite agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury that several alterations were needed. The bill did not go nearly far enough, and it was preposterous to bring such a bill forward on such a subject.
 Sir R. Peel  could not concur with the hon. Member for Bridport, that the noble Lord had been ao obscure and so equivocal as the hon. Gentleman had represented. He did understand the noble Lord to say,
 1357 1358 l. l. l. l. s. l. l. 1359 1360 1361 l. l. 1362 "No, no"
 Viscount Howick  could not help remarking, that the right hon. Baronet had manifested a singular talent for totally misunderstanding the language and observations of his noble Friend, otherwise he would not have so completely misrepresented what had taken place. He was quite satisfied, that no other person who had listened to the speech of his noble Friend, could have supposed that the observations that he had made, applied to those who had signed the petitions against the proposed plan. He thought that the term "mendacious misrepresentation" was most properly applied to those persons who got up the excitement that had prevailed, with the view of deceiving and inducing feelings of opposition to the plan, and with the view of leading persons to sign petitions. With reference also to what had fallen from his other noble Friend, nothing could be less improper or unfair, than for him to explain the
 1388
 Viscount Morpeth  merely rose to reply to some of the observations of the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, and to say, that in his humble judgment at least, the proceeding of his noble Friend the Secretary for the Home Department was not at all obnoxious to the reproof it had received. On the contrary, his noble Friend was right to take the first opportunity that was offered by any motion to inform Parliament, in due
 1385 l.
 Viscount Morpeth : I may state at once that I mean at least three-fourths of all the statements which have appeared in opposition to the plan.
 Sir G. Strickland  thought the bill so objectionable, that its defects could not be remedied by striking out the compulsory clauses, and he should therefore move that the Committee be postponed to that day six months, and it would depend upon the support he received whether he should press it to a division. He did not oppose the second reading, because he had understood from the hon. Member for Honiton that he would reprint the bill, and modify the compulsory clauses. The bill had been reprinted, and the clause remained as objectionable as ever. He thought it should have been intituled, "A bill to take away the rights of all lords of copyhold manors, and to compel
 1399
 Mr. Aglionby  protested against striking out the compulsory clause, which was the most important part of the bill. Still, however, much good would remain in the bill, and if forced he must assent to it; however, he would never lose an opportunity, so long as he had a seat in the House, of endeavouring to get rid of this odious remnant of the feudal system.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that no man could have visited Windsor Castle without being aware that the stables belonging to it were very unsuited to a royal palace. It had been thought desirable to build new stables and a riding-school there, and he was happy in being able to state that this could be done without any charge on the public purse. If they took the amount required from the hereditary revenues of the Crown, it would be exactly the same as taking it
 1402 l. l.
 Sir Edward Sugden  trusted, that the hon. and learned Gentleman would postpone this bill till next Session. He was friendly to a system of enfranchisement, and he would be glad to co-operate with the learned Gentleman opposite, in endeavouring to found a measure giving greater power of voluntary powers of enfranchisement, and such other provisions as would meet the justice of the case; but he could not, consent to the compulsory power, which would do great injustice to many parties, especially where a tenant for life might be obliged to pay for the enfranchisement of a reversion. He objected also to the introduction of a system into this country which would require the assistance of commissioners, to be paid at the public expense. He hoped, however, that the bill would be brought forward in the next Session of Parliament at such an early period as would ensure its being passed.
 Mr. James Stewart  said, that if the compulsory clauses were objected to, they could be withdrawn, as the bill provided also for voluntary enfranchisement. He could see no reason, therefore, why the bill should not be proceeded with. He had not introduced the measure upon his own authority, but upon the authority of a Select Committee of that House, and the resolutions upon which it was founded had been drawn up by the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Tamworth. Let the bill go into Committee; and if it was then determined that the compulsory part ought to be abandoned, he was willing to adopt the voluntary part alone. It was no fault of his, he could assure the House, that the measure had not been brought forward earlier.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, the interpretation clause was much more comprehensive than it had been arranged when the bill was in committee, and, in consequence, there was the most unjust interference with private property.
 The Attorney-General  regretted that any opposition had been given to a bill which he was convinced would confer great benefits on the country. He had himself brought in a bill for the enfranchisement of copyholds, founded on the report of the real property commissioners; but that bill only provided for voluntary enfranchisement. A committee was then appointed formed of Members of both sides of the House, and in which the right hon. Member for Tamworth took an active part, to consider the whole question; and though he in the committee opposed the insertion of the compulsory clauses, yet, finding that they were strongly advocated by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, and other well-informed persons, he had given way, and cheerfully yielded up this bill to the management of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Honiton. The committee had called before them the tithe commissioners; and it was their opinion that it could be done, and done beneficially, though, as the hon. Member for the North Riding said, no general rule could be laid down. That was the very reason why it was proposed to appoint Mr. Blamire and other discreet
 1400 1401
 Sir R. H. Inglis  seconded the amendment; for though he did not object wholly to the bill, vet he entertained such objections to the compulsory clauses, that unless the honourable and learned Gentleman would promise in committee to erase all those classes, he could not allow the bill to proceed.
 Sir Stratford Canning  inquired whether the principal ground of misunderstanding was not a demand made by the French, that the French residents in Buenos Ayres should be put upon the same footing as those of the most favoured nation.
 Sir Stratford Canning  wished to ask a question relative to the present state of our trade at the important port of Buenos Ayres. The House was aware, that a blockade of that port was established about eighteen months ago by a French squadron, under the immediate command of the French Government, The effect of the blockade had been to suspend all trade in
 1397 l. l.
 Sir Stratford Canning  observed, that the noble Lord had not expressed any opinion as to any immediate prospect of the blockade being discontinued. He hoped the noble Lord would inform the House, at least, of the general grounds and principles upon which the French Government founded its right to institute that blockade.
 Viscount Palmerston  did not feel himself at liberty to express an opinion, either one way or the other. He could only repeat, that the Government were doing all in their power to bring about an amicable adjustment of the matter.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, the last despatches received, stated that the blockade still continued. With regard to the other point, he would state, that her Majesty's Government were using their best endeavours, at Paris and Buenos Ayres, to bring about an amicable adjustment of the dispute between the two parties.
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that that certainly was one of the demands made by the French.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not know whether the noble Lord was aware that there was no such clause in the Roman Catholic Belief Act as that stated by the hon.
 10
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that there was no such Protestant dignitary as the "Archbishop of Tuam," at the present time. There was a Bishop of Tuam, but no archbishop.
 Mr. O'Connell,  after reading the Act, admitted that the hon. Baronet was right, and that he (Mr. O'Connell) was wrong. Any person in or out of that House might call another the bishop or archbishop of any place, but the individual was not at liberty to assume the title himself.
 The Chairman  read clause 22, which, had reference to the appointment of the general committee by the Speaker, that were to select the sub-committee to try election petitions.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  did not think the right hon. Baronet had met the difficulty suggested by the noble Lord; and had not made out a case to justify the House in adopting the measure. If the Selection of the seven Members who were to form the particular committee were impartially made, it might be a better mode than to leave their appointment to chance, but he could point out to the House cases where selection would be much worse than chance. The right hon. Baronet had not pointed out how the selection was to be settled when he came to appoint the seven Members. Could he say, that while there should be three Members of one set of opinions, and three of another, yet the seventh would be a Member who would act with perfect impartiality as an arbitrator? If not, then the right hon. Baronet could not maintain that the principle of selection was better than that of chance. This bill had not been brought forward in accordance with the views of any previous committee of inquiry. On the contrary, it was actually in the face of the committee, which was conducted by the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard (Mr. G. Buller). The House had nothing but the right hon. Gentleman's own showing to justify their adoption of the measure. He had no objection to the selection of the general committee of six Members by the Speaker, but then his appointment ought to be imperative upon the Members, and not optional. But the right hon. Gentleman, by this 22d clause, required two things—namely, the willingness of the Members to serve, and that the list of the Members nominated should be open to the disapproval of the House during the next three days. Why should not the appointment be imperative?
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the noble Lord's objection on the ground of party feeling biassing the decisions of election committees was borne out in many instances. Political feeling had created a difference of decision upon questions; for instance, as to the value of the franchise. The assistant barristers selected in Tory times were of opinion that 10 l. l. 15 16
 The Solicitor-General  conceived, that the suggestion which had been thrown out, that the services of the assessors should be employed out of the session of Parliament, if acted upon, would entirely divest those officers of the character of permanency which it was proposed to give to them; and he thought that the plan suggested of procuring the assistance of Members of that House to act in this capacity was equally objectionable. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Exeter (Sir W. Follet), for instance, during the last session, was one of the counsel who most frequently appeared before the
 24
 Mr. Villiers  said, it was admitted on all hands that the plan proposed by the right hon. Baronet was a decided improvement on the existing system. It was also generally agreed, that it was most desirable to have an appellate court to decide questions disputed before the revising barristers, and which afterwards came, under the present system, before election Committees of that House. He did not think there could be much difficulty in agreeing on the constitution of such a court. It would decide four-fifths of the business usually brought before the election committees. All that remained was to decide upon the constitution of the appellate court.
 Mr. O'Connell  suggested to the hon. Member for Liskeard, that he should endeavour so to arrange the introduction of his proposed bill and its progress, that it might proceed  pari passu
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that there were many Members in the House who were present when he had explained the grounds on which this grant was proposed. He wished to call the attention of his right hon. Friend to a distinction which he had overlooked with respect to the revenues of the Crown. It was true, as his right hon. Friend had stated, that the land revenues of the Crown were during the reign of her present Ma-
 31 l., l., l. l., 32 l.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, the right hon. Gentleman had not attempted to show that this 70,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had stated last night that there were two funds; that the one coming from the Crown revenues was that which was carried to the public credit; that this sum was taken from that fund which was not to be carried to the public credit, but which was to be re-invested unprofitably, and which if invested unprofitably would leave no revenue at all, but if invested profitably would undoubtedly be a diminution of loss to the public. With this explanation he would leave it to the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, pursuant to his notice, for leave to bring in a bill to make perpetual the Act of 1 Victoria, cap. 80, to exempt certain bills of exchange and promissory notes from the operation of the Usury-laws. The right hon. Gentleman said, this was a subject of the greatest importance to the commercial world. By the Act, as it at present stood, all bills not exceeding three months date were exempted from the operation of the Usury-laws. Now, it would be in the recollection of hon. Members, that an attempt had been made about two years ago to extend that exemption to bills of a longer date; and a bill to that effect had passed through this House, but had been lost in another place. During the late commercial difficulties of the country, had it not been for the small relaxation of the Usury-laws to which he had alluded, those difficulties would have been greatly increased. On this account, therefore, he now proposed to extend the exemption from the Usury-laws to bills of twelve months' date, and also to re-affirm the original proposition of making the Act perpetual. Although he asked only for this limited remission, yet, had he consulted his own feelings, he would hare given the fullest benefit he could to the commercial world by a total repeal of those laws, for he thought there ought to be as free a trade in money as in any other article.
 Mr. Pryme  expressed his regret that his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, did not propose to bring in a bill for the total repeal of the Usury-laws. He was sure it would give great satisfaction to the commercial world.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he would, most willingly, introduce a measure for the total abolition of the Usury-laws, but he was afraid that in doing so he should be risking the good which he expecting from a partial abolition, and he would rather make sure of that then risk the whole.—Leave given.
 Lord J. Russell  said, it must be obvious to the House that it would be impossible for him to comply with this request, as the papers moved for were confidential communications with the authorities in the country.
 Lord J. Russell  said, with regard to the statements of which both the hon. and gallant Member opposite and the hon. Member for Finsbury had spoken, he had none to make to the House, except that there certainly had been some attempts made by very frenzied and reckless persons in particular parts of the country during the Whitsun week. He had, however, only to day, seen the commander of the northern district, and he was glad to hear that Gentleman say that he was better satisfied with the condition of that district than he had been some time before.
 Lord J. Russell  said, certainly nothing of that kind ought to obstruct the progress of this bill; but he did not think it would be so complete without some such measure as that proposed by the hon. Member for Liskeard.
 Lord John Russell  said, it appeared to him, after hearing all that had been said upon this subject, that the first great object to be gained was, the insuring greater certainty than could now be obtained in decisions upon questions of disputed votes—that there should be a tribunal (a court of appeal or otherwise) by which the right of voting in particular cases might be decided on with more uniformity, and whose decisions would have a greater public notoriety. Such a tribunal should be of a permanent nature. What the court should be that was to try election petitions was quite a different question. Indeed, the whole course of this discussion had been to separate those two questions. A sufficient tribunal to decide the
 27 28
 Lord John Russell  had not seen the requisition to which the hon. Baronet had alluded; but in answer to the question put to him, he would state, that the Government had not given any directions to the Attorney-general, nor had they communicated with the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland on the subject, and unless there was an absolute necessity for so doing, he should not think it proper to take any steps in reference to it. On one occasion, when an application was sent to him by a person acting on behalf of Dr. M'Hale, asking that certain petitions should be laid before his late Majesty, that individual had taken the title of Archbishop of Tuam, and he had immediately written to him, stating that he could not present the petition to his Majesty, as he had assumed a name to which by law he was not entitled. Therefore, whenever it came before him officially, he should entirely deny that Dr. M'Hale had any right to assume that title; but he could not agree in the propriety or expediency of instituting prosecutions on such a subject.
 Lord John Russell  replied, that in the case to which he had alluded, the title was not given by another to Dr. M'Hale. Whether or not there was that default in the Act mentioned by the hon. and learned Member, he did not know.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that as the hon. Baronet had gone at some length into the question of the appointment of assessors, it was necessary that he should answer one or two of the arguments advanced. The hon. Baronet thought, that the appointment of assessors was a question which had better be left for consideration on the Registration Bill; but it certainly did seem equally proper for this bill, as for the other, and he, for one, thought that it was, of the two, better introduced into this bill, because this bill had a better chance of passing than the other. In much that the hon. Baronet had said relative to the assessors, he concurred; he concurred in thinking that it was indispensable for young Members to make themselves acquainted with the work of the House; and be agreed also in the right hon. Baronet's statement, of his total want of reverence for the superior qualifications of lawyers, and he did not consider them more fit, because they put on a wig and gown, to decide legal questions; but he wished to select them on the same principle as he deemed country gentlemen who were chairmen of quarter sessions fit, because it was a great thing to secure the services of those who were in the habit of attending to these questions. He did not wish that Members should be taken this day, and never chosen afterwards; it was the habit of directing the mind to judicial decisions which gentlemen acquired at the bar which he required. He did not so much require legal knowledge as a permanent Judicial character in these tribunals; he would not take a Member one day to decide one point, and then turn him adrift the next, and have the same point decided by another Gentleman of equal intelligence, and of equal competency, but who had never had his attention directed to it before. He took the lawyers, therefore, as assessors, not because they were the
 22 23
 Mr. C. Buller  expressed his willingness to adopt the suggestion of the noble Lord. He had listened attentively to this discussion, and he confessed, that he had been a good deal surprised with reference to the expediency of appointing legal assessors. It must be borne in mind, that when he first proposed the appointment of assessors, the hon. Member for Bridport had not suggested the adoption of the principle of an appellate court. Since that very valuable suggestion had been made, however, the necessity for assessors had become very considerably diminished. The appointment of the appellate court, would so materially diminish the duties of the election committees as to render the appointment of assessors less necessary. With regard to what had been thrown out by the noble Lord, he was disposed to concur in it, with the exception, that he thought, certain Members of that House might be fixed on as permanent
 29
 Mr. Charles Buller  was unwilling to press the introduction of the clauses of which he had given notice, if by doing so any delay or difficulty should be produced with regard to the progress of the bill of the right hon. Baronet. He was ready, therefore, to make those clauses the subject of a separate bill, and would accordingly, on a future day, if agreeable to the House, move for leave to bring in a bill to appoint a Court of Appeal from the decisions of the revising barristers.
 Colonel Sibthorp  was one of those who would readily subscribe to anything which contributed to the pleasure of her Majesty, and hoped the resolution would be agreed to.
 Colonel Sibthorp  supported the motion and said, that from the unwillingness of the noble Lord to grant the papers, it might well be supposed that there was something behind the curtain. If the noble Lord would not accede to the motion, he ought at least to make a statement to the House on the subject to which it referred.
 Mr. Finch  believed, that the accounts of the arming of the people had been greatly exaggerated.
 Mr. Goulburn,  not having been in the House last night when the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) moved for the vote of £.70,000, to be applied out of the land revenues, for the building of stables at Windsor Castle, wished now to state, that he thought it would be only just and proper that an estimate of the expense should be laid on the Table of the House before they voted the appropriation of so large a sum as £.70,000 of the public money. The proposed grant for the erection of these stables was professed to be taken from the revenues of the Crown; but the House was aware, that the revenues of the Crown were, during the reign of her present Majesty, under the control of Parliament, so that this sum, though nominally supplied from the revenues of the Crown, would be in effect provided for out of the public funds.
 Mr. Warburton  said, if there were any risk that by proceeding with the clauses proposed by the hon. Member delay should take place so as to endanger the passing of the bill this Session, he thought, it would be most prudent to make them the subject of a separate bill.
 Mr. Warburton  was certainly very desirous of retaining the jurisdiction in cases of this description within the House. The conclusion to which he had come was this: he agreed to the committees, as they would be composed under the bill of the right hon. Baronet; if the questions referred to them were of a proper nature they might decide upon questions of bribery, and as to
 25
 Mr. Warburton  fully concurred in the principal of the right hon. Gentlemen's motion. It was, he had no doubt, the general feeling of the commercial world, that the whole of the Usury-laws should be done away with. If such a measure had been in operation during the late commercial crisis, many houses which had sunk and been ruined under that pressure, would have been saved, and be now in a sound and flourishing condition.
 Mr. Herries  was not surprised at the opposition of the hon. Baronet, knowing, as he did, the interest which he took in every measure connected with the Established Church. But he could assure the hon. Baronet, that the committee on the bill had sanctioned the bill in its present shape, with the best feelings towards the Church. His hon. Friend had, however, overrated the importance of the particular church in question as a place of worship. He doubted not that 700 persons attended divine worship there on Tuesday last; but usually the numbers who frequented it were about fifty or sixty, and indeed, extremely limited. The leading considera-
 7
 Mr. Estcourt  considered that it was a most monstrous proposition, to call upon the House to sanction the destruction of a church upon such inadequate reasons. It had been said that 5,000 l.
 Mr. Sheppard  said, that the pulling down of a church for such purposes as those contemplated by this bill, would be attended with the ruin of the best interests of the country.
 Mr. Wakley  hoped, that the noble Lord would make a statement to the House on the subject of so many persons arming themselves in different parts of the country. At the same time, however, he agreed with the noble Lord that it was impossible for him, consistently with his public duty, to lay before the House the papers which were called for, and which must be regarded as confidential communications received by the home authorities. The accounts which had been given of the arming of the people were, he had no doubt, grossly exaggerated, for he could not believe that any persons could be so misled as to arm against the public peace, but he certainly thought the noble Lord should state to the House the true accounts he had received on the subject.
 Mr. Wakley  moved that the sum be reduced to 50,000 l. l.
 Sir Charles Grey  said, that every one who gave his opinion upon this subject spoke in a manner condemnatory of the confusion caused with respect to the conflicting decisions formed by different election committees. That arose from there being a number of tribunals created by the present law, possessing co-ordinate powers, which were obliged to decide mixed questions of law and fact on a sudden. There was another objection which must also be admitted, but which was the least of all, perhaps, that the tribunals consisted of persons who did not belong to any profession, whose nature made them competent to give such decisions, although he agreed, that every Member of that House, if he pleased to apply his attention and time, might and could arrive at a fair conclusion upon the cases submitted to him; but the main defect was, that there was no tribunal which was competent to pronounce a final decision. He conceived, therefore, that some general committee should be appointed, which should have the power of pronouncing a final decision; and he thought, that any measure which secured that object, whether by means of assessors or not, would be the most desirable.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that his objections to the plan of appointing assessors were these:—They were either to have some authority, or not. If they had not they would be a useless incumbrance to the proceedings of the committees. If it were proposed that they were to have any powers conferred upon them, he considered that such a course was equivalent in principle to a surrender  pro tanto
 Sir R. Inglis  said, in consequence of the statements of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, he had obtained a copy of the Roman Catholic Relief Act, and after perusing it, was convinced that he (Sir R. Inglis) was right, and the hon. and learned Member wrong. The hon. Baronet then read the 24th section of the Act, from which it appeared—
 "That if any person, after the commencement of this Act, other than the person thereunto authorized by law, shall assume the name, style, or title of archbishop of any province, bishop of any bishoprick, or dean of any deanery, in England or Ireland, he shall for every such offence forfeit and pay the sum of one hundred pounds."
 Sir R. Inglis  wished to put a question to the noble Lord connected with a subject which he (Sir R. Inglis) considered of some importance. The House was aware that a certain address had been presented to the high sheriff of the county of Mayo, the first name to which was that of the Lord-lieutenant of the county. The next, as reported in the  Freeman's Journal,
 Sir R. Inglis,  after the explanation given by his hon. Friend who had moved the third reading of the bill, would not press his amendment to a division, although he certainly was not by any means reconciled to the measure.
 Sir R. Inglis  objected to the bill, and to the circumstances under which it was introduced to the House. His objection was not to its title; but by clause 71 of this bill, power was given to the Governor and Company of the Bank of England to destroy a church attended by not less than 700 persons, and in which there was also service four times a-week, and 700 persons had attended it last Tuesday morning. He was ready, though
 6
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he would endeavour to give a satisfactory answer to the objection of his noble Friend. He would first take it for granted, that the jurisdiction was to remain in the House of Commons. If his noble Friend urged his argument for the purpose of showing that that jurisdiction ought to be transferred to another tribunal, that would be an entirely different question; but he had a right to assume that the intention of the House was, that the jurisdiction should remain with them. Then the objection of his noble Friend proceeded upon the assumption that the House was divided into two great parties, one decidedly in favour of opening the registry, and the other as decidedly opposed to it. Now, he denied that assumption. He had never given an opinion upon that question, and he believed there were a great many other Members who had not done so. He did not believe that, however forcible the arguments which might be addressed to the House on one side or the other of that question, Members were so determined to maintain their own opinions, as not to admit those arguments to have any weight in coming to a decision. He did not believe that hon. Members were so wedded to their political opinions, as to afford no chance of justice being done to the parties, whose case might rest upon those arguments. And yet this was necessary, in order to support his noble Friend's view. His noble Friend would leave the ap-
 13 14
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, that it would be better to answer objections made to his bill one by one, as they arose. The hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. V. Smith) asked why he did not give the Speaker the power to insist upon Members serving on these committees. Now, they did not find any deficiency in Members undertaking the voluntary duties of the House, there was no difficulty in finding Members who would serve on the committee of private
 18 19 20 21
 Sir Robert Peel : The clauses of which the hon. Member has given notice, were intended to provide the means for reconciling the conflicting decisions of the revising barristers. They proposed to establish a Court of Appeal for that purpose, and to that principle he had no objection, nor to the bringing in a bill to carry that principle into effect. But he trusted, that the course which the hon. Member had adopted would not operate so as to interfere with the progress of the present measure.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought the proper time for discussing the question of the appointment of chairman would be when they came to the clause relating to it. He had not the slightest objection to the principle of the appointment of a court of appeal from the decisions of the revising barristers. He had not the least wish to adhere to the details of his plan, feeling, as he did, that, after all, the real difficulty would consist in the appointment of the seventh member of the proposed committee. He was wholly unprejudiced and unprepossessed on the subject, and would be happy to attend to any suggestion; but he thought, the fitting time for any such discussion was when they came to the proper clause.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  was decidedly in favour of the manner in which it was proposed, that the Committee should be appointed by the bill of the right hon. Baronet: and he thought, that the six Members could much better appoint the seven Members who were to try the pe-
 26
 Viscount Dungannon  moved for "a return of any communications received by her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Home Department from the
 33
 Viscount Dungannon  said, that from the explanation he had heard he should be sorry to see the day when the House would refuse any sum of money for such an object as that proposed. He should be sorry to see the day when anything connected with the improvement of a great national monument, such as Windsor Castle, should be made a matter of cavil at the money, come from whatever quarter it might. He trusted that the vote would meet with no opposition.
 Viscount Dungannon  said, that it was his wish to obtain information that might be satisfactory both to the House and the country, and he had hoped to have heard from the noble Lord something more definite than the statement he had just made. He certainly was glad to find that the present aspect of the country was not so alarming as had been apprehended; but at the same time he knew this, that in the immediate neighbourhood of some part of his property there did exist very considerable alarm not very long since, and that had it not been for the Yeomanry corps, who were then on duty, very serious results might have occurred. He would not, however, after what he had heard, press his motion.
 Viscount Dungannon  said, the church to which this bill applied was one of long standing, and he entirely concurred with the views expressed by the hon. Baronet. The precedent sought for was of the most dangerous nature. He would not object to the removal of the tower; but it was too much to ask for the demolition of the whole of the sacred edifice, and he should support his hon. Friend in any amendment, to shew his feelings upon the subject.
 Viscount Dungannon  was exceedingly sorry to trouble the House, by calling for a division on this bill, particularly after the withdrawal of the amendment by the hon. Baronet; but he considered the precedent which would be conveyed, by its passing to be of so serious a character, that he should deem himself to be neglectful of his duty, if he did not press for the sense of the House. The bill proposed to disturb the remains of the dead, on the plea
 8
 Viscount Howick  concurred in the argument urged against the principle of giving to the general committee the power of selecting the particular committees; and thought the answer of the right hon. Baronet to that argument a most inefficient one. At the same time, he could not concur in the objection to the clause now before the committee, which had no reference to the power of selection; that being given by a subsequent clause. He thought the present clause, which only referred to the appointment of a general committee by the Speaker, a most useful one. He was anxious that such a committee should be appointed, and thought that the functions pointed out in the twenty-one preceding clauses could be very well discharged by such a committee; he alluded particularly to the division of the House into panels. But he would suggest, that instead of the general committee selecting the particular committee, they should ballot (without requiring the presence of the Members) for those who were to constitute that particular committee; and he would also propose, that after balloting a list of seven, they should ballot a supplemental list of seven other Members, which latter list should be kept sealed up, and only opened in the event of any one or more Member or Members of the first list being objected to, and the objection held good. In that case, the name objected to should be struck off the list, and the first name of the supplemental list be substituted for it. With respect to the questions of law that might arise, he thought the only mode of escaping from the inconvenience of the existing system was to adopt the proposition made a few years ago by the committee conducted by the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard—that of appointing assessors learned in the law. Those assessors would soon authoritatively settle all disputed questions, and then the Members of the House, with the assistance of the assessors, would be perfectly qualified to dispose of the cases that might be brought before them. It
 17
 Lord Mahon  entertained considerable doubt as to the practical working of this clause. The committees to try petitions were to consist of seven Members, to be chosen by the general committee of selection. Now in what manner would this committee of selection be able to proceed? Six Members, indeed, they might choose without difficulty—three from one side of the House and three from the other—but he (Lord Mahon) did not understand in what manner the seventh Member of the committees could possibly be selected so
 11 12
 Lord John Russell  wished to understand clearly the intention of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, and from what he had gathered from what the right hon. and learned Gentleman had said, it would seem that it was not his intention to take the sense of the House against going into committee, but only upon the omission of the first clause, which empowered the Colonial Legislature to enact new laws in conformity with the Orders in Council. It would seem that it was the intention of the right hon. and learned Gentleman to retain the second clause so far as related to the re-enactment and continuance of the expired Laws; and if he had misunderstood the right hon. and learned Gentleman, he begged the right hon. and learned Gentleman to set him right.
 Mr. P. Thomson,  although he did not mean to oppose the motion of his hon. Friend, must say, that he did not think that any good object could be obtained by an inquiry into such a subject by a committee of that House. If, considering the nature of the climate of this country, that House were to legislate against the importation of apples at 5 per cent., all he could say was that he must give up all hope of carrying out those commercial principles which had been acted upon for years. It would seem that no question was now to be treated without reference to party; but he could not forget the time when he gave his support to both Mr. Canning and Mr. Huskisson, without being influenced by the views which seemed to actuate the hon. Gentlemen opposite. The growers of apples
 83 s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d.
 Sir E. Sugden  thought it right to take that opportunity to state to the House the course which he intended to adopt with respect to this Bill. He intended to move
 * 82
 Sir E. B. Sugden  was understood to say, that the noble Lord had understood what had fallen from him correctly.
 Mr. Darby  thought this was a question which did not depend upon the budget, but if it did, that was only an argument for the production of the budget at an earlier period than usual. It was the general opinion of all classes, that if the act of last session were to continue in force, the proprietors of Orchards in Kent and Sussex would be ruined.
 Mr. Labouchere,  in moving that the bill be committed on Monday, observed, that in the printing of the bill a material omission had been made in the second clause, whereby the meaning of the Government was considerably obscured. It was intended, although, as the clause now stood, it did not so appear, that ample time should be given to the House of Assembly to adopt the measure suggested by the Imperial Parliament. The error, which had been pointed out to the learned counsel who had just addressed the House, would of course be corrected in committee. He merely mentioned it now, to prevent the possibility of a mistake as to the real intention of the Government.
 Mr. Herries  said, the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade Brad taunted Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House with not having supported him in the liberal course of policy which he had pursued with regard to trade. There was certainly no ground for that taunt, for never had any Gentleman at the head of a public department been so little attacked by an Opposition as the right hon. Gentleman. As regarded the question under consideration, he should not, at that time, express an opinion on its merits. He should wait the result of the investigation which was to
 84
 Mr. Godson  would express no opinion upon the merits of the question, but he could assure the House that other counties were as deeply interested in this matter as Kent and Sussex.
 Mr. Wallace  Considered that it was only by the introduction of foreign fruit that poorer classes could in all seasons obtain apple-dumplings. He should divide the House against the appointment of a Select Committee.
 Mr. Hodges  moved, that a Select Committee be appointed to take into consideration the duty on the importation of Fresh Fruit.
 Mr. Burge  addressed the House on behalf of the Jamaica planters. *
 Sir E. Knatchbull  would hot follow the example set by the right hon. Gentleman of saying anything which could prejudice the fair consideration of this question by a Select Committee. It was a question which materially affected the poorer classes, and particularly those in Kent and Sussex. It had also a very important bearing on the question of tithes. He should not, however, say a word on its merits, as he hoped a fair investigation would take place when the House would be in a much better condition to decide.
 Mr. M. Philips  said; tile reason why the right hon. Gentleman had not introduced the bill at an earlier period of the session was, that he was prevented from bringing forward such measures till after the budget was submitted to the House by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He considered regularity of supply and moderate prices highly desirable to all classes; and in the article of fruit those objects, from the uncertainty of the climate, could not be attained, except by the introduction of foreign fruit. He had no objection to investigation.
 Lord Stanley  had no objection to repeat the precise terms of his motion, which were these—that on Thursday next, he would take the sense of the House as to the expediency of pledging the House, by an abstract resolution, to the principle of union between Upper and Lower Canada.
 The Solicitor-General  did not rise to defend the opinion of the Chief Justice or the Attorney-general of Jamaica, but he would grapple with the opinion of the right hon. and learned Member for Ripon. He would say, that the Act of Charles the 2nd had not been repealed by the Act of George the 3rd. He was aware there was a difficulty in deciding with those nice legal distinctions before the House, but he would show that it had not been repealed. The Act of Charles the 2nd recited, that "all rogues, vagabonds, and other idle persons, who should be found
 127
 Colonel Wood  begged to remind the noble Lord, that the constables of Westminster at present derived a great part of their powers under the 42nd of George 3rd. Now, as this bill would altogether annihilate that species of force, he would suggest that a clause should be introduced to empower the police constables to do all those acts which the Westminster constables were required to do.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that the first ten clauses of the bill had reference entirely to that body of the police who were under the control, not of the Metropolitan Police Commissioners, but of the body who had the controlling power of the police of the City of London. That part of the measure having been considered by a Committee of the House, he was happy to say, that the Members forming that Committee, although of all shades of politics, had come almost to an unanimous decision in favour of the opinion which had been strongly expressed, that the control over the police in the City of London, ought to be left in the hands of those
 134
 Lord John Russell  would take care that the subject should be inquired into.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that with regard to the motion of which the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire had given notice, it might be convenient to the House that he should state,
 96
 Lord J. Russell  replied, that he should take the same course in both cases, and that he should move for leave to bring in a bill embodying the principles declared in the second resolution.
 Lord J. Russell  was understood to say, that the hon. Member for Bridport was more able to answer the question put to him by the hon. Gentleman than he was.
 Lord J. Russell  thought, that there would be great evil in taking a division upon this question, which might be interpreted, in Canada, as a division upon the principle of an union, whereas it would only be a division upon the expediency of proceeding by resolution or by bill. He should be ready, therefore, to withdraw his resolution, and to bring in a bill.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that after the very strong protest against an union by the Legislative Assembly of Upper Canada, the Government would certainly not feel justified in pressing forward legislation upon the subject during this Session.
 Lord J. Russell  thought, that the statement of the petitioners was sufficient to warrant an inquiry. He might, however, state, that it did not appear, on the face of the petition, that the parties complaining had signed the original petition.
 Mr. C. Buller  wished to ask the noble Lord, whether he intended to give up the second resolution also; because it was to that that his objections applied.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, in rising to make the motion of which he had given notice, he should wish first to draw the attention of the Committee to what the question before them was, not because he very much apprehended that Gentlemen were labouring under a delusion in that respect, and he believed that they were about to enter upon a discussion of a question which had nothing to do with that really under consideration. The Committee were not about to discuss the question between master and slave, but between the House of Assembly and her Majesty's Government. The question between master and slave was brought before the House when her Majesty's Government brought forward a proposition with respect to the termination of negro apprenticeship. It would, perhaps, be in the recollection of the Committee, that upon that occasion he did not hesitate to express himself in very strong terms against the conduct of the planters towards the negroes. He must, however, say, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Judge-advocate (Sir G. Grey) had entirely misapplied what he then said. He should be able to show, that the course which he then took was entirely consistent with the course which he was about to
 98 99 100 "Jamaica is in your hands; she requires repose by the removal of a law, which has equally tormented the labourer, and disappointed the planter; a law by which man constrains man in unnatural servitude. This is her first exigency." "Jamaica, for her future welfare, appeals to your wisdom to legislate, in the spirit of the times, with liberality and benevolence towards all classes." "We shall proceed, in the critical posture in which the island is placed, to give to the momentous matters submitted to us our most serious consideration. Jamaica does, indeed, require repose, and we anxiously hope, that should we determine to remove an unnatural servitude, we shall be left in the exercise of our constitutional privileges, to legislate for the benefit of all classes, without any further Parliamentary interference." 101 "I am anxious to draw your Lordship's attention to the Act of this island, 5 William 4th, chap. 2, for enlarging the powers of justices in determining complaints between masters and servants, &c. This Act has already been found to operate with great severity against the European emigrants; and the friends of the negro are naturally apprehensive that it may be convened into a powerful engine of oppression against the labourers, as it gives authority to a single justice to apprehend, under his warrant, servants in husbandry, who absent themselves or neglect to fulfil their contract, and punish them by hard labour, not exceeding three months, or by forfeiture of wages." 102 "I hope your Lordship will be enabled to rid us of this Act, either by a formal disallowance, or by the authority of the Imperial Parliament." "I beseech your Lordship to look to the provisions of the Local Vagrant Act unrepealed, 35 Charles 2nd, chap. 11. This Act was introduced against the lawless soldiery of Governor Doyley, and many violent planters are now rejoicing in the power it gives them of flogging free men from parish to parish, and there is an improvement in its penal powers by the 32nd George 3rd, chap. 11, still unrepealed, which adds six months' hard labour in the House of Correction. Your Lordship may bid me apply to the Legislature to repeal these frightful laws, but I should apply in vain; and in the midst of freedom we have still terrific engines of oppression and tyranny preparing for the emancipated population." 103 104 105 locus pœnitentiœ 106 107 108 109 verbatim 110
 Mr. Goulburn  had no intention of entering into a legal argument; he had not the honour of belonging to the legal profession; and he was perfectly satisfied with the opinion of his right hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Ripon, than whom there could be no higher authority upon such a subject. With respect to the opinions of the Chief Justice and Attorney-general of Jamaica, they had only stated, in answer to questions from the Secretary for the Colonies, what laws were in force respecting Poor-laws and the Vagrant Act; but when the Secretary for the Colonies had directed his attention to the fact of one of those laws being repealed, the Chief Justice admitted his mistake; and if he had then been mistaken, it was clear that the House of Commons were not bound to rest upon his  ipse dixit 128
 Mr. Labouchere , in the first place, could not but express his regret that the right hon. Gentleman had not been present at the debate which took place when the former measure proposed by the Government was under discussion, for he (Mr. Labouchere) felt satisfied, that if the right hon. Gentleman had been then present, he would not have thought it necessary to enter into the very wide field of discussion which had occupied the first half of his speech, but which offered nothing but topics already discussed and disposed of. The greater part of the right hon. Gentleman's observations were applicable to a measure which, although it was under the consideration of the House, indeed, upon a former occasion, did not form at present the subject of its deliberations. He hoped, therefore, that the House would excuse him, and that the right hon. Gentleman would not attribute it to any want of respect for his argument, if he abstained from following the right hon. Gentleman in that part of his speech. Instead of doing so, he thought he should better employ the time of the House if he endeavoured to state what he conceived to be the real object of the present debate, and what were the much narrower, although very important grounds, upon which the House had now to form its judgment. With regard, to the former bill brought forward by the Government, the right hon. Gentleman had truly said, that it had been withdrawn, not because there had been any change of
 111 locus pœnitentiœ, locus pœnitentiœ, locus pœnitentiœ 112 113 "Recollect what is expected of you by the people of England, who have paid such a large price for your liberty. They not only expect that you will behave yourselves as the Queen's good subjects, by obeying the laws, as I am happy to say you have always done as apprentices; but that the prosperity of the island will be increased by your willing labour, greatly beyond what it ever was in slavery. Be honest towards all men; be kind to your wives and children; spare your wives from heavy field-work as much as you can; make them attend to their duties at home, in bringing up your children, and in taking care of your stock; above all, make your children attend Divine service and school." locus pœnitentiœ, 114 115 116 117 118
 Mr. Sheil  thought that the question between both parties reduced itself to this—was it necessary to do more than pass the second clause? What was admitted by the right hon. and learned Gentleman to whom the Opposition was intrusted by the party to which he belonged? That right hon. and learned Gentleman admitted that the second clause was indispensable—that some interposition with the House of Assembly was absolutely necessary. That, then, being conceded by the right hon. and learned Gentleman, let them see to what results that concession must lead. The right hon. and learned Gentleman, by admitting the necessity for the second clause, confessed, that interference on the part of the Imperial Parliament was indispensable. Then the right hon. and learned Gentleman said, that old laws must be revived, and he had also condemned the conduct of the House of Assembly. In commenting upon that conduct, he had pronounced an unequivocal censure. Now, if the second clause were necessary, it was worth while to ask if the first clause were not equally necessary? The case made out was, that old laws must be revived, but that new laws were not necessary. How was that point to be decided by the House? They had, to be sure, heard the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. That opinion must be entitled to the greatest respect, if it were pronounced from the bench. Such was not the case, for the right hon. and learned Gentleman appeared there in his ultra-forensic capacity. When the right hon. and learned Gentleman did not appear as a judge, but when he appeared as a partisan, he was not disposed to attach that importance to the right hon. and learned Gentleman's opinion on matters, which in another and a better place, he should be disposed at once to give to them. He had marked, in one respect, the conduct of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, who began his speech at five o'clock by a denunciation of the Prisons Bill. When he heard the Prisons Bill denounced by the right hon. and learned Gentleman, he could not help asking himself what course the
 129 Edward Sugden: "We feel, in common with your Excellency, the emergency in which the country is placed by the expiration of the annual laws, and are well aware of the necessity which the present state of society imposes, that laws for the prevention of vagrancy, for the regulation of the relative duties of servants and masters, to determine the qualification of electors, to regulate the militia, and to prevent the occupation of lands, should be enacted."
 Mr. Alston  was requested to state to the House, that, at the time the transaction complained of toot place, Mr. Hyde was dining in a private room at a tavern, with a Mr. Brown, when some person came in, and asked him for the  Standard Standard, Morning Chronicle. Morning Chronicle, 95
 Mr. Wakley  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department. In the winter of 1834, there was a committee appointed to inquire into the state of Medical Education. The hon. Member for Bridport was member of that committee, which sat the whole of the session. A great deal of valuable information had been elicited, and part of the evidence taken by the committee had been printed. The question he wished to ask was, why the remaining portion of the evidence had not been printed? It was a subject of great interest to the members of the medical profession, and they were exceedingly anxious to know whether there was any chance of the remaining portion of the evidence being published. The members of the profession were aware that there was a difficulty in preparing the evidence for publication, from the great confusion into which the papers had been thrown, in consequence of the fire which took place, and they did not wish to put the Government to any inconvenience; but, so much time had now passed, that they began to apprehend they would not see the rest of the evidence at all.
 Mr. Wakley  said, the members of the profession themselves were exceedingly anxious to have the testimony given before the committee printed. They wanted it printed, in order that a good medical reform bill might be founded upon it. The hon. Member for Bridport had assured him that no efforts of his should be left untried in order to get the evidence ready.
 Mr. Gladstone  rose to explain. He had come to a wrong conclusion with respect to the Act of Charles the 2nd. Whether the Act were repealed or not, it did not alter his views with regard to the bill. If it were not repealed, it was not necessary to introduce a bill which was such an insult to Jamaica.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that he felt on the present occasion, as he did on all others when the affairs of Jamaica were under consideration, most unwilling to address the House; but the objection which he felt to trouble them with any observations
 119 120 121 locus pœnitentiœ, 122 123 124 "The Chief-justice refers to the Colonial Act, Charles 2nd., c. 18; the Attorney-general adds a reference to the 35th of Charles 2nd., c. 11, and the 7th of George 4th., c. 26. It seems to have escaped their notice, that the acts of Charles 2nd. were repealed by the 6th of George 4th., c. 17. Nor has either of them referred to the statute of 17 George 3rd. c. 31." Non nostrum inter vos tantas componere lites.
 Sir G. Grey  would follow the example
 125 126
 Sir R. Peel  said, that it seemed to him that it would be advisable to come to a distinct understanding upon the subject of the motion given by his noble Friend, the Member for North Lancashire, and he could not but think it inconvenient that the course to be pursued by her Majesty's Government, was to depend on the speech of the noble Lord. If the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department would recollect, what he (Sir R. Peel) said some time back, was, that if it was not proposed in the present Session to legislate on the subject of an union between the Canadas, nothing could be more unwise than to fetter themselves by a resolution on an abstract question. If, therefore, the noble Lord intended to withdraw his resolution, and to bring in a bill for the purpose of effecting an union, he apprehended that there would be no opposition to such a course. As it might be productive of bad consequences if a division should take place on this subject, he trusted the noble Lord would ask for leave in the ordinary way to bring in a bill.
 Sir R. Peel  wished to know, whether there had been any change in the noble Lord's intentions of legislating upon this subject during the present Session, or whether the bill would be merely laid on the table of the House?
 Lord Mahon  said, that finding from the statement of the hon. Member for Hertfordshire, that Mr. Hyde was sorry for what he had done, and did not attempt to justify, but only to palliate his conduct, it was not his (Lord Mahon's) wish to carry the matter further.
 Lord Mahon  rose to put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, and, at the same time, to call the attention of the House to the petition which he presented last Wednesday, from certain inhabitants of Bedford, complaining that their right of petitioning had been unwarrantably interfered with. The petition was signed by very respectable gentlemen, with one of whom he was acquainted and stated, in substance, that the person complained of, Mr. John Hyde, holding an office under the Crown—that of Receiver general of Taxes—seeing a petition against the Government scheme of education in the hands of an inhabitant of Bedford, seized, and tore it
 94
 Mr. W. Williams  wished to call the attention of the House
 143
 Mr. Williams  begged to move, that the petition be ordered to be printed forthwith.
 Mr. Williams  said, that when he presented the petition he had distinctly stated, that he would call the attention of the House to the statements which it contained on Tuesday next.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, the House had already ordered the printing of the petition, and he was, therefore, of opinion that the hon. Baronet by the rules of the House was bound to give notice before bringing forward a motion for discharging that order.
 Mr. Williams  contended, that it was not a speech, but a petition on a subject of the highest importance, and containing matter well deserving the attention of the House.
 Mr. Williams  hoped the hon. Baronet would state some reason in justification of that motion. He believed, if the hon. Baronet would read the petition, he would find, that it related to matters worthy of the gravest consideration, and that it contained a statement of facts founded upon Acts of Parliament. If there was anything disrespectful to the House in the petition, or anything improper, he should be glad to have it pointed out. He knew Mr. Wells to be a most respectable person, who had devoted much of his time to the subject of finance, and, as he intended to call the attention of the House to the petition he had presented, he trusted the hon. Baronet would withdraw his motion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, a copy of the petition had certainly been forwarded to him, and he ought, therefore, perhaps, to be the last person to raise any objection to its being printed. He could not, however, help saying, that if the House were once to sanction the printing of petitions complaining of no grievance, and only making suggestions, they would soon, in his opinion, have cause to regret such a proceeding. It was not merely the expense which he objected to, but such a course, if once adopted, would not fail seriously to obstruct the public business. He thought there could be no difficulty in postponing the motion; but if it was postponed, hon. Members would do well to consider the nature of the paper before voting for its being printed.
 Colonel Wood  thought the House was indebted to his hon. Friend, the Member for Lymington for having elicited the statement just made by the hon. Under Secretary. He rejoiced that the Government had issued this commission, because he was of opinion that unless Government took up the matter, the difficulties that surrounded it would never be got rid of. He saw no way out of those difficulties except by the Government taking the whole tolls, paying the debts of the trusts, and establishing one uniform rate of toll throughout the country.
 Colonel Conolly  said, it was evident that the hon. Member for Finsbury was totally ignorant of the mode in which the Committee upon Petitions disposed of the petitions presented to that House. So far from obstructing the printing of petions, or interfering with the orders of the House, the Committee afforded every facility to the publication of the complaints of the people. He did not think it was fair to say that the Committee treated petitions slightly, for every one acquainted with the subject knew that the reverse was the case. From his own experience, he was bound to say that, in his opinion, the present system was the best, and if they were to discuss petitions, it would be impossible to transact the public business,
 General Johnson  understood that the order for printing the petition had been made on Friday, and he could not think that it was fair to move that the order be now discharged. Surely notice ought to have been given.
 Mr. F. Maule  could not allow this motion to be postponed without protesting against the course which the hon. Member for Finsbury had taken. The motion carried with it an attack upon a public servant, and he must say that putting it off from day to day—this being the second time it had been deferred—was most unfair, not only to that individual, but to those who had to defend his character, and who had a considerable quantity of other business, both in and out of the House, to attend to. He had come down to the House prepared to meet the motion of his hon. Friend, and he thought it rather hard that it should be put off in this way.
 Mr. F. Maule  did not rise to throw any difficulty in the way of the introduction of the bill. He felt that the hon. Gentleman opposite, as Chairman of the Committee, to which he had alluded, could not have taken any other course than that which he had pursued; but he feared that the hon. Member's Bill would, in the face of the commission which had been appointed, share the same fate as the bill formerly introduced. The bill he had introduced had a recommendation which the bill proposed by the hon. Member had not—namely, that under his bill the Government proposed to advance a considerable sum of money for the purpose of consolidating the debts due by turnpike trusts. At present it was impossible the Government could propose any such measure, and it was in order to get some more grave authority than the report of a committee, an authority on which the country gentlemen could place reliance, that the Government had been induced to issue a commission, consisting of the Duke of Richmond, the Marquess of Salisbury, Lord Hatherton, and Lord Eliot, to inquire into the best mode of treating this subject. It was a subject which might not, perhaps, interest many persons in that House, but in it the poorer classes were deeply concerned, because many individuals who had lent their "little all" on the security of turnpike trusts, the best security on which to advance money at the time of lending, were now absolutely in despair as to the probability of recovering one farthing of their money. That this state of things ought to be remedied, nobody could deny. He thought
 152
 Lord Ashley  wished to ask the hon. Member for Finsbury whether, as it was not likely there would be much chance of the attendance of the House affording him an opportunity of bringing forward his motion relating to the three Scotch witnesses examined in regard to the operation of the Factory Act, whose petition had been presented to the House, it was his intention to postpone it; and if so, whether he would bring it forward on a future day.
 Lord J. Russell  agreed with the hon. Baronet opposite, that there was a wide distinction to be made between petitions complaining of actual grievances and petitions presented merely for the purpose of giving publicity to the theories of private individuals. He thought it would be highly improper to order the publication of petitions which could only be considered as the speeches of individuals who, from not being Members of Parliament, were unable to state their views and opinions personally in that House. If the petition alluded to came under that description, it certainly would not be proper to order it to be printed at the public expense.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the right hon. Baronet had correctly stated what had passed on the former occasion. It was not intended to give to any individual, or to any corporation, the right of printing the Bible, or to grant any monopoly which would enhance the price. The right hon. Baronet was perfectly justified in asking what precautions were proposed on the part of the Crown, to prevent the chance of error. It was proposed to incorporate a limited number of persons—say five, to whom would be granted the exclusive right of printing and publishing the Bible. One of these was to be the Moderator of the Assembly of the Church of Scotland, two others were to be divines of the Church of Scotland, and two others were to be laymen, but members of the Church of Scotland; and if any larger number than five should constitute the board, it would still be constituted on the same principle. It was proposed, that this board should have the exclusive right of printing and publishing the Bible, upon condition of allowing the free importation of the authorised version of the Bible, printed by authority in England. Another condition was, that the board should have power to grant an  imprimatur 142 imprimatur jure coronœ
 The Speaker  said, that when the hon. Member for Coventry presented the petition he had given notice, that it was his intention, on a subsequent day, to call the attention of the House to the statements which it contained. The hon. Member had then moved, that the petition be printed, and to that motion the House at the time assented. The committee on petitions had, however, refused to order the printing of the petition, and the question now was, whether the order of the House should be discharged. The order having once been made, must be complied with, unless rescinded.
 Mr. Freshfield  would not allow what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury relative to the Committee on Petitions to pass without notice. The hon. Member was far from being correct when he said that the petitions sent to the Committee were never afterwards heard of. The Committee had already presented to the House twenty-seven reports upon petitions, each of which was of considerable bulk.
 Mr. Freshfield  rose to move, pursuant to his notice, for a "Return of the number of days the Court of Exchequer, as a Court of Equity, sat for the despatch of business for ten years, ending 1838 inclusive, showing the number of days the Court sat in each term and at the sittings after each term," and was proceeding to state to the House the grounds of the motion, when the House was counted out.
 Mr. Yates  said, the Committee examined fully and with great care the petitions confided to them, and always ordered the publication of every petition which they considered important, or which they deemed it necessary that the House and the public should be made acquainted with.
 Mr. Wakley  said, he had not before postponed his motion at all. He had fixed on a day for bringing it before the House, and he had lost no opportunity of doing so; but he now found that the Government were strongly opposed to it, and that they had "whipped" for it. He had no means of "whipping" in support of the motion. He could see very well what the state of the benches was at this moment, and he knew equally well what it would be when the time came for him to be called upon by the Chair,
 149
 Mr. Wakley  said, it certainly was his determination to bring forward the motion to which the noble Lord had referred, but he very much regretted, that there was little chance of his doing so that night with the slightest chance of success. The hon. Member for Penryn had a motion on the paper which was likely to occupy several hours, and, more than that, he found that her Majesty's Government were determined to oppose him. It was, therefore, his intention to postpone his motion until that day three weeks, when he should certainly bring it forward, and press it to a division.
 Mr. Wakley  believed, that the hon. Baronet opposite had no intention to read the petition himself, and that he was inclined to prevent every other person from reading it. He had no doubt that it contained matter worthy of the most serious consideration, for Mr. Wells had devoted much of his attention to the subject of finance. The House, too, had ordered the petition to be printed, and let hon. Members consider what the effect would be if its authority was to be set at defiance or its orders disregarded. In this case the House had ordered a petition to be printed, but here was a committee placing itself above the House, and refusing to allow the order to be complied with. In his opinion, hon. Members were not aware of the effect on the public mind of the manner in which petitions to that House were presented. The people were complaining, and justly, of the way in which their petitions were treated; and the restraints which were imposed upon hon. Members of that House, relative to the presentation of petitions, were rendering the other House of Parlia-
 145
 Mr. Mackinnon , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the laws regarding turnpike trusts, and to allow of unions of the same, said, he hoped to be able, by the statements he was about to make, to show that such a measure was necessary. He moved for leave to bring in this Bill in his capacity as Chairman of a Committee which had sat to consider the-subject, and, although it was a dry one, the House would be convinced that it was an important one, when he reminded them that these trusts were at the present time in debt to the extent of 9,000,000 l l 150 termini 151
 Sir G. Clerk  would move that the order be now discharged.
 Sir G. Clerk  had no objection to withdraw his motion for the present, and to give notice for a future day, if such was the wish of the House. He was perfectly sensible that if the attention of the House had been called to the petition at the time it was presented, it never would have been ordered to be printed. The reason why it had escaped the attention of the House was well known. Hon. Members could not fail to recollect the state of the House on Friday. Before hearing counsel on the Jamaica Bill the House was nearly empty, and the Members who were present were employed in conversation, as all the public business had, most strangely, been disposed of. It was at that time the petition had been presented, and the motion for printing had in consequence escaped the notice of the House. The votes of Friday, the House would observe, contained no order for the printing of the petition, for it was only stated, that it was ordered to lie on the table. It was not till the votes of Monday were published, that they found an order for printing the petition. He did not mean to say, that the petition contained anything improper, nor did he question in the very least the respectability of the petitioner; but he must again repeat, that the document was not of that character which entitled it to be printed at the public expense. When petitions were presented, complaining of grievances, the House was always ready to give its attention to the prayer of the petitioners, and when a motion was to be founded upon a petition, there was never any unwillingness to allow it to be printed. But if the House were to allow those who were unable to obtain such publicity for their opinions as they might wish—if they were to allow every theorist and speculator, whether in finance, medicine, or law, to forward pamphlets to that House in the shape of petitions, and if they were to order those pamphlets to be published at the public expense, they would, in his opinion, be doing great injustice to those who had signed the 8,600 petitions which had been presented during the Session,
 147
 Sir G. Clerk  said, the hon. Member for Coventry had stated no reason why the petition should be printed, nor had he intimated that it was his intention to bring forward any motion founded upon the petition. He could not think, that it would be wise for the House to order petitions of this kind to be printed at the public expense. When grievances were complained of, the House was bound to give every facility to the printing of petitions, if motions were to be founded upon them; but it could not be proper for the House to order financial pamphlets to be printed at the expense of the public. This petition made suggestions relative to the management of the revenue, and complained of no grievance; he thought it would be highly improper for the House to sanction the printing of such a document. In his opinion, it ought to have been forwarded, not to the House, but to-the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Sir J. Graham  thanked the noble Lord for the candour and fairness with which he had made this statement. It would be irregular for him to express any opinion upon the merits of the plan, and he should therefore not do so. Nothing could be fairer than the noble Lord's proposition to give him, in writing, a detailed statement of the conditions under which the proposed privilege was to be conferred. He should be able to communicate this to the authorities in Scotland, and he would then let the noble Lord know, whether it was satisfactory to them.
 Sir J Graham  hoped that the noble Lord opposite would not consider him pertinacious or troublesome, if he again ventured to request some information from him on the subject of the expiration of the patent held by the Queen's printer in Scotland. On a former occasion, the noble Lord told him what the Government did not intend to do. The noble Lord stated, that it was not intended to renew the patent, or to give the exclusive power of printing the Bible in. Scotland to any corporate body, which might derive a profit from that exclusive privilege, and avail themselves of it to enhance the price. The noble Lord said also, that at the same time measures would be taken
 141
 Mr. Gordon  said, that the course adopted by the learned Member for Chester, and others in this Parliament, convinced him that all attempts to conciliate your friends was a most fruitless thing. An hon. Friend behind him had said, he did not care for Parliament, and that Mr. Scrope's Act should never come into operation in Merthyr Tidvil. Under the present system, if a man had five acres of land, and covered it with small cottages, he paid no poor-rates; but if he built only a barn on the land, and employed the land for the purposes of agriculture, he had to pay the poor-rate. This, he conceived, to be most unjust; and the present bill would go far to remedy this evil. But his hon. Friend, the Member for Chester, had endeavoured to excite the feelings of the House by saying, that this bill would operate harshly
 155
 Mr. Williams  was not surprised, that the hon. Member for Windsor had failed in his attempt at conciliation when the principle of the bill was so wholly objectionable It would affect materially the municipal franchise, for in corporate towns a large number of voters were rated to the poor under 9 l
 Mr. Pryme  would oppose the bill, because it went to impose a house-tax on the poorer classes of the people.
 Mr. Cowper  said, that he thought the power and control over the children ought to be in the hands of the judges of the land, rather than with the father, who might be the offending party.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the present bill did meet with the cordial sanction and hearty concurrence of her Majesty's Government in the general principles which it asserted, because it went to put an end to the many complicated and vexatious questions which arose so often at the hustings, and before committees of the House on the trial of election petitions. He did not see that the bill would at all have the bad effects which the hon. Baronet dreaded; but, on the contrary, he thought it would give increased effect to the Reform Bill.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that he did not care whether the provisions of this bill were extended to county voters or not, but he had always understood that the practical evils complained of as to voting were confined to the 10 l
 Mr. V. Smith  said, the hon. Member for Ipswich had not embraced within its provisions the seot and lot voters, and hoped he would extend them to that class.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved a resolution for the continuance of the sugar duties, and said, that it was not the intention of her Majesty's Government to propose any alteration in those duties.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  must protest against the interpretation put by the hon. Member for Wigan upon what had been already done in the reduction of the sugar duties. He was old enough to recollect the proceedings in that House during the last twenty years, and unquestionably for sixteen years of that time there was not one subject more discussed or debated than the equalization of the duties upon East India and West India produce. He rejoiced that it had been in his power to propose an equalization of those duties, and though so long a matter of contest, it was now the settled law of the land. With respect to the bounty on the export of sugar, that also had been a matter of grave and serious consideration, and he had been enabled to introduce a measure which gave considerable relief on that subject. He, therefore, thought the hon. Member for Wigan had not fairly estimated what had been already done relative to the sugar duties.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no hesitation in saying, that a reconsideration of the sugar duties might be entered upon advantageously to the state as a matter of revenue, and to the consumer in the price of sugar. But his hon. Friend must be quite aware of the difficulties which would attend the subject, arising, first, from the claims of the colonies of this country to a preference, on which he did not pronounce any opinion; and, in the second place, from the peculiar state of the Brazils, with respect to the slave-trade; because, when it was known that at the present moment the Brazils furnished a great market for slaves, and therefore gave encouragement to the slave trade, it behoved the House to pause before giving support to that trade by affording an additional market to the producer of slave labour.
 Mr. Thornley  thought it vain to expect that keeping up prohibitory duties on sugar could have any effect in putting down slavery. He thought it particularly absurd to use such an argument for excluding the produce of the Brazils, when this country was so largely dependent on the cotton and tobacco of the slave states of America. Resolution agreed to.
 Mr. Langdale  thought the greatest misfortune that could befal any woman was to be separated from her husband. Indeed, so sensibly did women feel this, that it was with the most painful suffering they ever consented to such a step. It would, in his opinion, be a far better course, if the parties would suffer the first ebullition of disagreement to subside, and try, if, by degrees, they could not make their dispositions suit to each other. Opposed as he was to the principle of divorce altogether, he could not become a party to any legislative measure for separating man and wife. The greatest evil of all was the condition in which poor children were
 162
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that pursuant to the notice he had given, he rose to move, that this and the following clauses be expunged. Having, on former occasions, dwelt on the merits of this bill at some length, there were doubtless but few Members in the House who were not aware of the respective grounds which were taken by his hon. and learned friend in reference to this subject; it would be therefore unnecessary for him to occupy the time of the House more than would be required to go over the main points of the question. The other clauses, in point of fact, although the same in substance, were different in form to the former bill. The first clause which he opposed provided,
 "Whenever any court, or judge should, upon the return of a writ of  habeas corpus, "The Lord Chancellor, the Master of the Rolls, and the Vice-Chancellor in England, or the Lord Chancellor and the Master of the Rolls in Ireland, respectively, might, upon hearing the petition of the mother of any infant, being in the sole custody and control of the father
 160 161
 Mr. G. Palmer  said, that three years ago cottages were of a very different description from what they were at present. Now they had up-stairs rooms, to which the health of poor people was mainly to be attributed. It was well known, that many of them paid no rent at all to their landlords, whose only chance of getting rid of such tenants was to allow them to go out at the end of the year without paying anything. If the landlords were compelled to pay the rates, cottage property would soon be destroyed altogether, and the poor would be the greatest sufferers.
 Mr. Briscoe  said, the present law was remarkable for its severity. Under the Poor-law Amendment Act, the rate was not remitted, as heretofore, by consent of the Overseers before the Magistrates in Petty Session, but it was necessary to have the consent of the Board of Guardians, as well as of the Magistrates, before those who were unable to pay poor-rates could be relieved. He felt it necessary to urge the House to take this question into serious consideration, because it was not one which affected the owners of cottages only, but the welfare of millions of the poorer classes of the community. The House was little aware of the wide-spreading dissatisfaction of the working classes, at the present time, at the working of Mr. Scrope's act. In a parish in which he had property, there had been an increase, under that act, of from 427 to 1,018 ratepayers, while rateable property had increased in the same ratio, the augmentation in the amount of rates being from 16,000 l l s s s 157
 Mr. Scrope  said, that all that this act provided was, that if tenements were rated, they should be rated at their full value. It did not compel property to be charged which had not been previously rated. He thought this bill would have the effect of preventing a better class of dwellings being built for the occupation of the labouring classes, and that it would be injurious, in other respects, to the poor man; and, therefore, he should strenuously oppose it.
 Mr. Slaney  thought, that as this bill had been repeatedly under the consideration of committees, and great pains had been taken to prepare it, it would be but fair to the promoters of the measure, that it should now be suffered to go into Committee. Would the House throw out the bill without affording an opportunity of showing what improvements had been made in it? By Mr. Scrope's act, all property was assessed to the poor-rate; and no person could be excused, except on the ground that he bad been a recipient of relief out of the rate. Therefore, the rate was to be gathered from all persons not so excused— a regulation which necessarily included an immense number of poor persons, who, though not actually receiving or asking parochial relief, were totally unable, out of their small incomes, to pay poor-rates. Every possible means were resorted to, in order to exact the rate from them; they were summoned over and over again, and very frequently their little household furniture, comprising only bare necessaries, were sold, under distress, for them. He believed this bill would have the effect of bringing back a considerable portion of property that ought to be rated, while it would relieve many poor persons, and prevent them from becoming burdensome to their parishes. He thought the excitement and dissatisfaction existing among the lower classses, in relation to this subject, were a strong reason why the House ought to suffer this bill to pass, or, at least, to go into Committee, that it might be made an efficient and beneficial law.
 Mr. Gibson  said, he had put the Bill into the best form he could.
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  entirely approved of the course which had been adopted by the right hon. Gentleman, because he made his opposition one of principle not of detail. The law of England had hitherto interfered only on one side, but that was ever on the stronger. The law of Scotland gave to the Court of Session the power of giving the custody of infants to their mothers. But in England, when the Court of Chancery interfered, it was ever on the prayer of the father, but never on that of the mother. The right hon. and learned Gentleman said, that the judges of the land were opposed to the clause, but he (Mr. Sergeant Talfourd) did not believe it. All he asked was, that when the whole case was before the court, it should have the power of mitigating the lot of the mother, and of giving a qualified order that the mother might have access to her child.
 Mr. Ewart  complained that there was to be no reduction in the sugar duties. He had hoped that some progress would have been made this year in the reduction of those duties, in compliance with the wishes and expectations of a large portion of the mercantile community. Considering how little had yet been done towards placing those duties on a proper footing, the subject called for the most serious attention of the House.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he should at a future day call the attention of the House to the expediency of relaxing the duties on East India sugar, and of admitting it to come into competition to a much greater extent than it did at present with West-
 165
 Sir A. Dalrymple  desired to know if
 163
 Sir F. Pollock  regretted the bill did not meet all objections, and equally regretted it did not apply to freeholders in counties as well as to borough voters. He did not object, however, to the principle of the measure.
 The Attorney-General  said, that, as this Bill embraced objects for which he had, for the last five years contended, he rejoiced to see it brought in, and hoped it would not meet with opposition in either House of Parliament.
 Mr. J. Jervis  stated, that his objections, and those of his constituents, to the present measure were so strong, that he felt hound to move, as an amendment, that the bill be committed that day six months. The main principle of the bill was, not that the rates of all houses were to be paid by the landlords—not that any general laws should be applied to that species of property—but that the law be directed against one class of persons occupying houses under the value of nine pounds per annum; and that the rates in those cases should be paid by the landlords, in three classes. First, when the rent was paid from year to year; second, where there was a less interest than one year; and, thirdly, where there was a greater interest than one year. It was further provided, that where the tenement was unoccupied for any period less than three months, the landlord was liable for the rates during the period the house remained unoccupied. Now, that principle conflicted with many of the rights and franchises conferred by the Reform and Municipal Bills. By way, however, of giving its due preponderance to property, that most objectionable and obnoxious principle of plurality of voting was conferred. The provisions were extremely hard upon the holders and owners of such property. It should, he thought, be the policy of the country to encourage a spirit of independence among the labouring classes, but the present measure would have a directly contrary tendency. Had they known they would have been liable to pay those rates, they would not have invested money on such uncertain security. This Act, too, would have a retrospective operation, and consequently compensation to these persons would become necessary,
 154 l
 Mr. M. Phillips  supported the bill, but he begged to assure the House, that he did so from no feeling of private interest. When thousands of pounds were yearly laid out on the building of cottages, from which large profits were derived, he
 156
 Mr. Mark Phillips  thought there was great danger that we should be driven out of foreign markets, unless there was assimilation of the duties on sugar with the sugar duties of foreign states. He would recommend alterations in these duties. He thought that the state of trade with the Brazils particularly called for some alteration, since at present it was hardly possible to obtain a return for cargoes shipped to that country.
 Lord Sandon  felt himself, although reluctantly, obliged to oppose the Bill. It would seriously affect the constituency of large towns, and tend to prevent the building of cottages. The comforts of the poor would be greatly diminished, if such a measure were to come into operation; they would be crowded into small and ill-built dwellings; and, in such a case, it would be impossible for them to give that attention to cleanliness which was necessary to insure their health and comfort. He should, therefore, vote against the bill.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge had himself stated, that which was false.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that as such was the opinion of the Chair he at once withdrew the expression, and yielded to the opinion so pronounced in the fullest manner.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the question would more strictly arise, when the question was, that the petition be laid on the Table.
 Mr. Dillon  Browne brought up the petition, and the heading was read by the clerk at the Table, which was stated to be the humble petition of the Archbishop of Tuam.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down was totally mistaken in saying, that there was any law prohibiting a Roman Catholic archbishop from taking the title of Archbishop of Tuam. There was now no such province in the Established Church, and, therefore, there was no contravention of the Emancipation Act. And it could not be alleged that there was any offence committed by him in so doing against the common law, for in point of fact at common law he was the only person now existing who could assume the title. The hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge had himself admitted that no action would lie against Dr. M'Hale for assuming it. Let them try the question on the petition. Lord Stanley's act had destroyed the title in the Protestant church, and therefore there was no assumption of the style or titles of the dignitaries of the Protestant Church. There was, therefore, no breach of the statute, and Dr. M'Hale was, therefore, perfectly entitled to describe himself as Archbishop of Tuam.
 Dr. Lushington  had been pondering in his mind what probably would be the effect of this debate on the minds of the people of Ireland. He begged to remind the House that it was a matter of the greatest importance to retain the confidence, and, if possible, the esteem and affection of seven millions of their fellow-
 202 203
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  admitted, it might be true, as the noble Lord said, that this was a violation of an Act of Parliament, but that Act was in its nature a penal one against the people of Ireland, and therefore he was not inclined to extend its operation one jot beyond what was in strictness the letter of the Act. It was admitted, that there was no violation of the letter of the law; it would, therefore, produce a strange effect in Ireland, to hear it said that the House of Commons was inclined to do what no court of law ever did, namely, extend a penal Act beyond the letter.
 Lord Stanley  said, that his objection the other day was to the mode which had been adopted by her Majesty's Government. His desire was, that no opinion should be given by the House as to the expediency or the practicability of uniting the two provinces of Upper and of Lower Canada, till they saw the details of the bill to effect that object; and as the noble Lord had proposed to withdraw the resolution, which as he (Lord Stanley) thought unnecessarily and improperly pledged the House to the abstract principle, his purpose had been altogether answered. He had no objection to the course now proposed, or to the noble Lord's proceeding by bill; on the contrary, he was most anxious to see the mode in which it was intended to deal with this question, for it was most desirable, not only for this country, but for all persons in Upper and Lower Canada, that the views of her Majesty's Government should be known at as early a period and as distinctly as possible; and he regretted that the noble Lord should think that it was not possible to carry out their intentions during the present Session. The interests involved were so important, that it was desirable that there should be no party discussion; and considering what had passed, and the present condition of the colonies, he thought that it would be better that there should not be any partial debate into which topics of an irritating nature might be introduced upon the present occasion. He would therefore content himself with stating the satisfaction he felt at the course which had been pursued by the noble Lord, and he would abstain altogether from expressing any opinion upon the measure till he was in possession of the bill.
 Lord, J. Russell  answered, that the Crown was to have power to re-appoint.
 Mr. Williams  said, it was very inconsistent. The penalties affixed by these clauses to petty offences, did not extend to the city of London. He believed, indeed, the noble Lord would not venture to attempt such an extension, or he would be frightened out of it the next day, and be counselled by the hon. Alderman below him (Sir M. Wood), to abandon it, in order to conciliate the good will of the citizens of London.
 Mr. F. T. Baring  said, that the sheriffs were answerable for the javelin-men, and therefore ought to have the appointment,
 Captain Boldero  objected to it, because it provided that the superannuation fund, out of which the half-pay of the men would have to be paid, would accumulate out of stoppages from their pay in cases of sickness, of fines for assaults and other petty offences, and by the sale of their old clothing. It was especially unfair, he thought, that the proposed stoppages should form any part of the fund. Indeed, as the clause stood, the superannuation was no boon to the men, but their absolute right from their own contributions. They were an intelligent body of men, possessed of great physical and moral courage, and after the harassing servitude of fifteen years, were deserving of half-pay from the public as a matter of right, and not as a result of their own contribution. He had no amendment to offer, but threw out the suggestion to the framers of the bill.
 Mr. Law  trusted, that the House would not allow the petition to be received. The hon. Member had fairly stated, that it originally bore the style and title of Archbishop of Tuam, in addition to the signature of John M'Hale, which title so affixed to the name the hon. Member had, on authority, removed, to avoid discussion. But still the petition in its heading purported to be the petition of the Archbishop of Tuam, although no such dignitary by law existed. The hon. Member had stated truly, that the Archbishop of the Protestant church ceased to exist, and that the person assuming the title of Archbishop of Tuam might not have brought himself within the meaning of the statute by being merely so designated by another; but when Dr. M'Hale himself assumed the title belonging to the Protestant church, he assumed a character denied to him by law. He, therefore, submitted to the House, that it would be highly improper to receive the petition,
 199
 Mr. Law  then moved, that the petition emanating from a person falsely assuming the title of Archbishop of Tuam be rejected.
 Mr. C. Law  complained that this would be a violation of the pledge given to the city. It was promised, that the principle of the new enactment should not be introduced into the city; but it seemed to be intended to introduce the substance of it in details.
 Mr. C. Law  begged to observe, that by the Roman Catholic Relief Act, any Roman Catholic clergyman who assumed the title of a dignitary of the Protestant
 197
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that the pledge applied to the management of the police force, which would be left with the city. But there was no pledge to exempt the city from any changes that Parliament might think fit to make in the criminal law.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, it was intended to introduce clauses which would have the effect of including the city, on the bringing up of the report.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, the clause had
 213 s.
 Lord John Russell  replied, with regard to the first question, that what he had stated upon a former occasion was, that he did not propose to depart from the
 211
 Lord J. Russell  next moved for leave to bring in a bill to continue and amend the act 1 Vict. c. 9, for making temporary provision for the Government of Lower Canada.
 Lord John Russell  would proceed to move for leave to bring in two bills, which he stated he would submit when he wished
 208 Habeas Corpus 209 210
 Lord John Russell  was fully aware of the importance of the subject to which the hon. Member had referred, but from the many difficulties attendant on it, he begged to say, it was not his intention to propose any bill on the subject during the present Session, but early next Session he hoped to be able to submit to the House some measure that would prove satisfactory to the country.
 Lord John Russell  asked for leave to withdraw the resolution which had been read, intending immediately to ask for leave to bring in a bill.
 Lord John Russell  confessed that he was unable to give any very competent opinion upon this subject, because a great part of the discussion had taken place before he entered the House. He wished, however, that the House should be relieved from the difficulty of deciding upon the question. There was an obvious objection to the hon. Member for Mayo making any alteration in the petition; on the other hand, the statement that it was the petition (among others) of the Archbishop of Tuam, placed he House in a situation of
 204
 Lord John Russell  moved for leave to bring in two Bills, one to continue the Poor-law Commission for one year, the other to amend the law relative to the assessment and collection of rates to the Poor-law Amendment Act. He had already stated, that it was too late in the present Session to introduce the bill he had originally intended as to details, which had been under discussion both in the House and before a Select Committee; but all he now proposed to do was, to make a provision to prevent any occurrence to put an end suddenly to the Poor-law Commissions. The bill would provide for the continuance of the commission for a year longer than it would now exist by law; it would now expire at the end of the next Session of Parliament. He wished, also, to introduce a bill to amend the system of the collection of rates. Much difficulty and inconvenience was now felt in the collection of the rates, in consequence of the different authorities between the board of guardians and the overseers. By this bill, he proposed to enable the board of guardians to order the collection of the county and other rates collected with the poor-rates.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that the necessity for the creation of a superannuation fund had been long obvious.
 Lord J. Russell  hoped the hon. Baronet would give his attention to that bill when in Committee, and he should be happy to
 220
 Mr. C. Buller  would not allow to pass through a single stage, without giving to it his strenuous opposition, a bill to continue the present system of provisional government, were it not that the bill not merely continued the present system, but it also gave to the Special Council a power which they did not at present possess. His experience, however, of Canada, convinced him that, leaving the Special Council with its present limited power, would be leaving the colony without any legislative power at all. A bill, therefore, having for its object to give to the Council further powers, ought to pass in some form or other, though he would oppose, in the most strenuous manner, any attempt to continue, unaltered, the present provisional and arbitrary power in Lower Canada.
 The Speaker  certainly considered, that the conduct of the hon. and learned Member for the city of Dublin, in making use of the term "false" had been most disorderly, and he called upon him to apologise for having made use of that expression.
 The Speaker : The question is, that the petition be now brought up.
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed the motion as a most unnecessary and unwarrantable interference with the amusements of the public. He did not see why the people should not have as much right to stay at a fair as her Majesty's ministers had to go
 214
 Mr. Darby  regretted that the noble Lord did not mean to introduce the bill as he originally intended; particularly he regretted, that he had omitted from this bill an alteration of the bastardy clause. He would also refer to the Report of the Committee of 1837, in which the special attention of Members was directed to the cases of widows with children; of men who were married before the Poor-law came into effect, who had large families; and persons who were unable to work. And as the proposed bill was only to last for a year, he thought that it would be a good opportunity to try to amend these points. He had had much experience with respect to the working of the Poor-law Bill, and the noble Lord would do him the credit of saying, that he had not factiously opposed it or used it for any party purpose. He might at first have objected to the Commissioners, but as it was now quite impossible to get rid of the system, they must make the best of it. He had personally received great attention from one of the Commissioners, Mr. Lefevre, whenever he had had occasion to consult him; but he had seen so much mischief from parts of the bill as it stood, that he would be glad to see it altered, and trusted that the amendment would not be made to depend upon any bill which was not likely to pass in the present Session. The bastardy clause, especially, was so drawn that it was perfectly incomprehensible—one part was totally inconsistent with the other, and the judges had said that they could put no construction upon it. He hoped the noble Lord would introduce a bill to clear up these points, and it would be certain of being carried.
 Mr. Lambton  wished to ask the noble Lord, whether it was his intention this Session to introduce any measure founded on the recommendation of the committee on Church Leases. The holders of that property could not at present borrow money on that security, owing to the unsettled state of the question, and it was of importance that some measure should be enacted as speedily as possible.
 Mr. Goulburn  suggested, that by striking out the word "Tuam" at the head of the petition, the difficulty might be obviated.
 Mr. Goulburn  rejoiced that the fines would go into the general fund, out of which the superannuations would be paid; and it was too much to suppose that the police would be guilty of false-swearing for so indirect a mode of contributing to their own superannuation, particularly when they would have to wait fifteen years for a chance of participation.
 Mr. Warburton  contended, that according to all precedent and practice the petition should be received. If this were a petition from an individual describing himself to be the Archbishop of Tuam, and if the House thought fit to act with strictness, they might in such a case have rejected the petition; but this was not the petition of an individual. It came from the clergy, also, of a particular quarter, professing the Roman Catholic religion. Therefore, in so far as it was the petition of the Roman Catholic clergy, it ought unquestionably to be received. What was more common than for the chairman of meetings to sign petitions to that House in the name and behalf of such meetings? The House could not and did not receive such petitions as the petitions of such meeting, but they always received them as the petition of the individual whose name was attached. On the same principle, this petition should be received as the petition of the Roman Catholic clergyman who signed it.
 Mr. Freshfield  said, the House ought to reject the petition. It had been argued that the whole difficulty was removed, because the hon. Member who offered it to the House had erased the words "Archbishop of Tuam," originally attached to the signature. That, in his opinion, did not at all alter the case. It was still the petition of the same persons, and their character was not altered by that subsequent erasure. It had been drawn up and signed by Dr. M'Hale, in the assumed style and title of Archbishop of Tuam, and if he had merely put his mark to it, that would have been an adherence on his part to the description given of him and the other petitioners in the heading of the document. That was the main point, the adoption of the title. It had been argued, that the petition might be received as coming from the Roman Catholic clergy, but if the petition were received it would be entered on their records according to the description in its heading. He should vote for the rejection of the petition, therefore, because the petition was offered by Dr. M'Hale, as Archbishop of Tuam—because the hon. Member for Mayo had distinctly stated, that Dr. M'Hale would not withdraw or compromise his claim to the title—and because he believed it was essential to take that course for the maintenance of true Protestant feeling, and for the vindication of the character and dignity of the House.
 Mr. Barneby  objected to the second clause, because the Sheriffs would be able to appoint their own dependents, a javelin-men, and call upon the county to clothe and pay them.
 Sir Matthew Wood  said, that when the clauses extending this part of the enactment to the city were brought up, he would be happy to support them.
 Mr. Dillon Browne  said, that although he had been authorised by Dr. M'Hale to strike off the adjunct to his signature, yet he had no authority to make any other alteration in the petition, inasmuch as it was not merely the petition of Dr. M'Hale, but of a large portion of the Catholic clergy.
 Mr. Dillon Browne  would explain how the erasure had been made. The petition had been forwarded to him by the Archbishop of Tuam—he believed the only Archbishop of Tuam now existing—and attached to that name were the words "Archbishop of Tuam." In forwarding the petition to him, Dr. M'Hale stated, that if the presentation of the petition with that term attached to it should be considered irregular, he might erase it if he pleased. Deeming that addition to the name to be irregular—wishing to avoid any unnecessary discussion—and not supposing, that any objection would be stated against the receiving of the petition on such an account, he had erased the words "Archbishop of Tuam." It might be irregular for Dr. M'Hale to describe himself as Archbishop of Tuam; but there was no law to prevent him from so describing Dr. M'Hale if he thought tit. He never could suppose, that the House would evince such an intolerant disposition as to reject the petition, simply because it proceeded from Roman Catholic clergymen.
 Mr. D. Browne  said, the hon. Baronet had completely misunderstood him. He begged to say that Dr. M'Hale had not the most distant intention of renouncing the title. Dr. M'Hale had written to him authorising him to erase the designation, if contrary to the privileges of the House, and thus cause the petition to be rejected; but he still maintained his claim to the title, believing that he was the only existing Archbishop of Tuam.
 Mr. Dillon Browne : The petition is signed "John M'Hale." It is described in the heading as the petition of the archbishop and clergy of the diocese of Tuam, but it is not so signed. The signature "John M'Hale" has no such title or character attached to it.
 Mr. Dillon Browne  presented a petition from the Catholic archbishop and clergy of the diocese of Tuam, from which, as it was of very great length, he said, that he would content himself with reading the following passages:—
 "That your petitioners beg to approach your honourable House with the unfeigned assurance of their devotion to the Throne and person of our most gracious Sovereign. That while 'they give unto Cæsar the things that are Cæsar's,' they cannot be unmindful of the other precept that issued from the same divine source, of giving to "God the things that are God's." That the religious education of their respective flocks is a duty exclusively belonging to the spiritual authority of the pastors of the Church, and which they cannot resign into any other hands without a renunciation of those obligations which they owe to its divine founder. The petitioners beg to impress upon your honourable House, that religion, to be effective, must be definite in its creed; and that any plan that would attempt to combine the discordant tenets of different sects of Christianity in a vague belief, would be utterly subversive of its foundation, and equally at variance with that solicitude which Protestants feel for the articles of the Established Church, as well as with the zeal with which Catholics have clung to their faith under the most adverse fortunes. The petitioners further beg to observe, that in the diocese of Tuam alone, there is a Catholic population of four hundred and seventy thousand persons, and there is not more than one to fifty of all other religious creeds; that the petitioners conceive it to be utterly unreasonable, that for one in fifty they should submit to a system of education fashioned for a mixed population of all Christian sects, and regulated by a manifest preponderance of Protestant principles and influence. The petitioners, therefore, seeing no hope of accommodation with a body whose pretensions are so arbitrary, that they cannot be submitted to without the most imminent peril to the Catholic faith, since it undisguisedly supersedes the authority by which that faith is protested, take this solemn opportunity of assuring your honourable House, that henceforward they hold no connection whatever, pecuniary or otherwise, with that board, and they will use all the spiritual influence of their sacred office to withdraw the children of their respective parishes from so dangerous a connexion."
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that, adding the fines for assaults and other minor cases to the superannuation fund was an inducement to the men to commit perjury.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  thought, that the section which inflicts a punishment of fourteen days' imprisonment on persons found drunk in the streets should be altered, so that such punishment should not be inflicted in the case of labouring men. Hitherto the discretion vested in the magistrates had been but too generally exercised in favour of the higher classes. However, he thought the whole clause objectionable, because it was confined to a particular locality. It was absurd, that a man should be imprisoned for drunkenness in London, while he might go down, to Windsor and get drunk without being liable to any other punishment than a finer of five shillings.
 Mr. Sheppard  moved, that it be an instruction to the Committee, to introduce the following amendment:—"And be it further enacted, that the judgment required by the beforesaid act, previous to a debtor's discharge, subjecting any property that may otherwise accrue to the debtor, at any period (exclusive of all assets, prospects, and claims set forth in his schedule), shall cease to be of effect beyond the term of three years from the date of the discharge of the debtor."
 Sir C. Grey  would venture to say, with reference to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard, that the best thing the Government or that
 212
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  objected to proceeding with a measure of so much importance at so late an hour of the night. The bill had now advanced to its last stage, but had never yet been discussed or considered. He should certainly oppose the motion.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  might see, from the absence of any opposition to the noble Lord's motion, that it was not the intention of that side of the House to oppose any obstacle to the introduction of those bills. He regretted, however, that the noble Lord had not brought forward the measure he had intended to propose with respect to this subject, at an earlier period of the session, when it might be fully considered. He thought that, with respect to the bill, for the assessment and collection of rates, it ought not to be brought forward at so advanced a period of the Session.
 Sir G. Clerk  was surprised at the warmth evinced by the right hon. and learned Gentleman on a question of mere form in their proceedings. He agreed with that right hon. and learned Gentleman that to object to the reception of a petition coming from the Catholic clergy of Ireland upon a subject on which they appeared to take a deep interest, upon a mere point of form, was a step which ought not to be taken He thought it was very easy for the hon. Member for Mayo to escape from the difficulty. That hon. Member had stated, that he was authorised by Dr. M'Hale to strike off the adjunct of Archbishop of Tuam to his signature in the petition why not also strike out the same designation at the head of the petition, and then the petition would appear to be from the Roman Catholic clergy in certain parts of Ireland. The noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, on a former occasion stated, that he had refused to present an address to her Majesty to which a Catholic Archbishop had signed his name as Archbishop. This being so, he hoped the hon. Member for Mayo would not object to withdraw the petition for the purpose of making the alteration suggested.
 The Attorney-General  felt it his duty reluctantly to oppose the motion of the hon. Member for Frome. It must be remembered, that this was not a general bill to revise the law of imprisonment for debt, but merely a bill brought in for the specific purpose of doing away with the great grievance to newspaper proprietors, which compelled them to insert advertisements relating to insolvent debtors at 3 s.
 Sir R. Inglis  was not prepared to support the rejection of the petition. The view he took of the case was this. The party by himself or his agent, had erased the words "Archbishop of Tuam," and thus had withdrawn his illegal claim to that title, and virtually admitted, therefore, his knowledge and conviction to the House, that the title which he was at first disposed to assume was not tenable. He had thus in a public document formally and publicly renounced his claim to the title of Archbishop of Tuam. It was on that ground, that he did not feel himself warranted in voting against the receiving of this petition. Although the petition was headed as that of the Roman Catholic Bishop and clergy of Tuam,  non 201 constat
 Sir R. Inglis  having then examined the petition, said it was signed John M'Hale, with a cross affixed, and there appeared to be an erasure after that signature. He begged to ask the hon. Member for Mayo, whether he was cognizant of any erasure? To his eye the erasure was quite apparent.
 Sir R. Inglis  called upon the Speaker to protect the Members of that House from the attacks of the hon. Member for Dublin. That hon. and learned Member was not amenable to what he might think fit to say out of that House, but on this occasion in applying the term "false" to the statement of the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, the hon. Member for Dublin had been disorderly; and he called on the Speaker to enforce order, and to compel the hon. Gentleman to withdraw that expression, to apologise to his hon. and learned Friend, and to the House.
 Sir R. Peel  inquired whether, at the end of the eight years, it was to be in the power of the Crown to re-appoint the parties?
 Sir R. Peel  said, every encouragement should be given to the men. In this the public at large was deeply interested. Every inducement should be held out to respectable and well-behaved men to become members of the force; for upon them much of public liberty and safety depended, and the protection of property at all times, but most particularly so at night. It was unwise, therefore, to curtail them of their pay. And he did not think that they should have anything short of 52 l. l
 Sir Robert Peel  concurred with his noble Friend, in thinking that in a matter of so much importance, it would be better to postpone all discussion upon the bill till they had an opportunity of examining the provisions. He wished, however, to ask the noble Lord one or two questions. The noble Lord had said, that he had stated his views with respect to the Legislative Council, and, as he understood the noble Lord, that council ought to remain constituted upon the same principle as at present. Upon a matter of so much importance, without meaning to provoke any discussion, he would ask the noble Lord to explain the principle on which the council would be constituted? The other question which he wished to ask was, whether the elective franchise for the five districts for constituting municipal bodies, having power to impose local rates and taxes, was to be identical with the elective franchise in the counties?
 Mr. Williams Wynn  regretted, that a petition so headed should have been presented to the House. It was unpleasant to decide on such questions, and he wished much it could have been avoided on this occasion. But as the attention of the House had been drawn to the subject, it certainly appeared that the petition was described as emanating from a person assuming a title to which he had no right, and, therefore, they were bound to reject it. It would be a neglect of their duty to receive it. If it had been merely described as the petition of John M'Hale, archbishop, and other Roman Catholic clergy, he should not have objected to receive the petition, because the Protestant church recognized that clerical rank in the Roman Catholic faith. But here a title was assumed claiming jurisdiction as such within a particular province in Ireland. That was directly con-
 200
 Lord Stanley  rose in conformity with the notice which he had given, in conformity, as he believed, with the sentiments of a vast majority of those petitioners, who in almost unprecedented numbers had represented their feelings and their wishes to the House, in accordance he believed, too, with a large and overwhelming majority of the entire population of the country, not to meet the Government
 230 l 231 —"Primo avulso non deficit alter:" that "alter," too, was an "alter aureus " "et simili frondescit virga metallo." 232 233 Cries of "No, no "I know there has been a wish, and it was expressed in the last Session by the hon. Member for Waterford, that there should be a central board of education. Now, if that were to be formed by combining persons of different persuasions, I think it will appear, from what I have already stated, that it would not be a board having the general confidence of the Church. I think it better, therefore, that we should form that body, call them board, or committee, or what you will, not of persons who belong to one party or the other, but that we should form it entirely of the official servants of the Crown, and that it should depend on the confidence of this House whether or not that system should be supported. 234 235 "The committee are desirous of respectfully, but earnestly, urging upon the attention of the Government the paramount importance of establishing, as preliminary to every other measure, a board of education, enjoying the confidence of the various religious denominations of the country. The committee strongly feel that on the degree in which such confidence is reposed will mainly depend the efficiency of all efforts in favour of education." 236 237 238 une chose espirituelle 239 "But (exclaimed the noble Lord) let us have it free from the Church also. Just permit us, as Churchmen, to have the Government interfering for the purpose of taking the education of the children of the Church out of the hands of the clergy of the Church." "Without doubt, schoolmasters are, in a great measure, intrusted with the instruction of youth in principles, and therefore it is necessary they should be of sound doctrine; and in order thereto subject to the regulation of the ordinary.—The King  v 240 "We admit all this; we admit that education must involve religious instruction; we admit that it must be based on religious principle." 241 242 "I am well aware, that the circumstance of the Government advancing money and assisting an object of this kind, has a tendency to check private charity, and that such interference is in general mischievous rather than advantageous." 243 "But there is one thing in which private subscriptions are frequently deficient, and that is in first setting a school on foot; and we have thought, that it would not be an improper expenditure of the public money to grant the sum of 20,000 l "It is intended, first, that no advance shall be made out of this grant towards the building of any school-house, unless a subscription to a certain amount be first made; and, secondly, which is most important, it is intended, that even if the required amount be raised by subscription, no advance shall be made for the purpose of erecting a school-house in any place, unless the Treasury shall be satisfied, that there are funds sufficient to keep the school in action after the House has been built." 244 "There exists, throughout Great Britain, the utmost anxiety that the funds provided by Parliament, for the purpose of education, should be made generally useful; and that the private charity and liberality, so far from being checked, have been greatly stimulated and encouraged by reason of the public assistance afforded to the principle laid down in their minute of the 30th of August, 1833. The application now before my Lords, and recommended to their favourable consideration, amounts to the sum of 31,016 l l l 245 l l l l l l l l l l l l. 246 247 l l. "A deputation from the society had waited on the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer about two years ago, to ascertain whether he would recommend a grant of 3,000 l. l. 248 "This request was ultimately complied with, as intimated by your Lordships to the Rev. Dr. Black and the Rev. Peter Napier, on certain conditions, with which the society are ready to comply, but delay applying for the money until they shall have laid before your Lordships all their wants." "That the Glasgow Normal Seminary was connected with the Church of Scotland in the same way as the Scottish Parochial Schools, being intended chiefly to train masters for those schools, but all, of every denomination, are admitted to its benefits as students upon the same terms—viz., the payment of a small fee in aid of the funds." l. John Russell "To direct an inspection to be made for the purpose of the several schools which they have recommended to the Board, and for the
 249 "My Lords are of opinion that the erection of model schools, for the instruction of teachers, by both the National and British and Foreign School Societies, would greatly tend to add to the efficiency of their several establishments, and that they should be called upon, if the respective committees of those societies concur in that Opinion to take steps for such purpose, it appearing to my Lords that public aid might be advantageously directed towards this object, provided a suitable plan for carrying those intentions into effect were submitted to the board and approved of, and provided that the principle of private contribution already laid down and carried into effect by previous minutes of their Lordships, were strictly adhered to." "Central School, Westminster, July 21, 1838.—I have laid your letter of the 7th inst. before the committee of the National Society, and with reference to the subject of model schools, I am directed to state in reply, that the committee are very desirous to profit by public aid in regard to these institutions, and will gladly avail themselves of any assistance which the Lords of the Treasury may offer for the purpose of promoting and assisting local exertions and contributions towards the maintenance, extension, and effectual improvement of the model schools which already exist in the metropolis, and in various parts of the kingdom; and in order to accomplish these objects, the board is particularly impressed with the importance of making such arrangements as will enable the teachers to remain for a longer period of time in training, and afford encouragement to a superior class of persons to offer themselves for the service of educating the working classes. Your letter invites the committee to call upon their Lordships for assistance in the undertaking referred to. With reference to this, and for the purpose of manifesting the earnestness of the committee on the subject, I am directed to add that the desire of the board was expressed according to the foregoing terms in July, 1835, in answer to an inquiry relative thereto made by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and that a direct official communication embodying an expression of the same sentiments was again addressed to the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the early
 250 l. "1st, whether the National Society may expect one half of the estimated cost of the buildings indispensably required for a model school, or what proportion of the cost it may be their Lordships' purpose to allow; and 2nd, whether they may be favoured with the assistance of their Lordships in providing them with a site at Westminster, or within a reasonable distance of their present Central School, by which arrangement a material diminution of the expense of the proposed undertaking would be effected." "With reference to your secretary's letter of the 21st of July last, in answer to the letter from this Board (the Treasury) of the 7th of the same month, on the subject of model schools, I am commanded by the Lords Commissioners of her Majesty's Treasury to inform you that, until they have before them the general views of the Society in respect to the scale of the proposed model school and the estimated expense, my Lords are unable to give precise replies to your inquiries further than by stating, that whilst they still adhere to the principles of private contributions in aid of this important object, my Lords do not mean to limit their aid by the proportions fixed in reference to ordinary schools." "With reference to that part of your letter of the 20th ult., requesting an answer to the
 251 "In answer to your letter of the 9th instant"—(for, having received no reply, the committee had written again on that day) —" in answer to your letter of the 9th instant, calling the attention of this Board to your application of the 13th ultimo, for a grant in aid of establishing a large training institution in connexion with the Central School, I am commanded by the Lords Commissioners of her Majesty's Treasury to acquaint you, that they have forwarded your application for the consideration of the Committee of the Lords of the Privy Council for Education." 252 officio 253 l minimum maximum l. l 254 Oh! Oh! l. l. l. 255 l John Russell 256 257 "The committee are of opinion (says the Minute) that the most useful application of any sums voted by Parliament would consist in the employment of those monies in the establishment of a normal school, under the direction of the State, and not placed under the management of a voluntary society. The
 258 259
 Sir W. James,  was very glad that the public attention had been called, in the way it had been, to this subject—because it would serve as a fresh stimulant to exertion on the part of the clergymen of that Established Church which they professed, and which the people of this country used to have pride in sustaining, and also on the part of the dissenting bodies of the country, which had been so highly spoken of by the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire. It was a strange and striking anomaly, that hon. Gentlemen opposite, the constant advocates of a voluntary system in religion, should, at the same
 299 l. l 300 301
 Lord Ashley  said, that the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down was calculated to create in his mind certain misgivings in reference to the intentions of the Government on this subject, even if he had not previously had reason to entertain them. The noble Lord had plainly told them, that not only did he think that the Government of this country ought to possess themselves of the control and guardianship at present exercised over the education of the people, but that control and guardianship ought to be extended. The noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had withdrawn his first plan of education, and proposed another, which, in his opinion, was equally objectionable; for, although he did not see in these two plans an identity of language, he did of purpose. They were animated by the same spirit, they tended lo the same end, and if they were not controlled by a vote of that House, they would unquestionably work out the same results. What powers, he should like to know, were conferred by the first minute that were not reserved in the second? The first declared what powers were to be exercised, and the second reserved the optional exercise of those powers. The second certainly did not state that a normal school, or that a model school should be erected; but was there any thing in that second minute to preclude it? Were they not even told in plain terms that the first plan, that favoured scheme of Government, and against which the country had made so bold a stand, was not suppressed, but only postponed? Were they not told, that the Government were only reserving it for further consideration? Had not the noble Lord expressed a hope that that postponement would not be of long duration? Had they not heard him, a Minister of the Crown, say that he still entertained the same opinions on the subject? That being the case, the noble Lord, as a man of principle, would no doubt avail himself of the very first oppor-
 269 "That the regrets of this meeting are necessarily associated with feelings of continued apprehension and alarm, when they further learn from the recent 'report' that the committee of council have not by any means explicitly and frankly abandoned the plan in question, but have simply withdrawn it for the present on account of the 'difficulties' which they experienced ' in reconciling conflicting views;' reserving their original design 'for further consideration,' and stating that 'they therefore postpone taking any steps' 'until greater concurrence of opinion is found to prevail.'" "By the proposition as it now stands the committee of the Privy. Council will have the tight of suggesting improvements in the schools connected with either the National or the British and Foreign Society, which may receive portions of the grant." "Nor will the grants be restricted to schools in connexion with the two great societies. An unfettered discretion is proposed for the committee. They would even be at liberty to make advances to a normal school, should there be one instituted by Mr. Wyse and the Central Society of Education." Morn 270 ing Chronicle 271 l. l. 272 273 l 274 "The Committee of the Privy Council were to have the power of appointing a licensed minister, to give separate religious instruction wherever the number in attendance on the model school, &c." 275 John Russell 276 277 278 279 280 281 l 282 The society has, by grants from its own funds, to the amount of 120,659 l. l. 283 284
 Lord Ashley  begged to be allowed to explain. He had drawn a distinction. He said, that it was hostile to the constitution, and not that it was unconstitutional.
 Lord F. Egerton  said, that if, consistently with the due discussion of the important question and the usual practice of the House, they could have come to a division after the speeches of the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire, and the noble Lord the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, he should have
 292 293 294 295 296
 Lord J. Russell  moved the Order of the Day for the House going into a Committee of Supply.
 Lord John Russell  said, it purported to be the petition of the undersigned inhabitants, &c.
 Mr. Hawes  could only say, that his hon. Friend had stated, that the petition was founded upon the resolutions passed at the meeting. If it was not the petition of the meeting, he, of course, had no further objection to its being received.
 Mr. Hawes  then said he should object to the petition being brought up, because he held in his hand the petition of the gentleman who was put into the chair after his hon. Friend had been turned out by a majority of those present. This gentleman, who was himself of perfect respectability, and the son of a highly respecta-
 228
 Mr. Hawes  begged to ask his hon. Friend whether he presented this petition as coming from the meeting over which his hon. Friend had presided.
 Mr. Hawes  would take the noble Lord's own words. The noble Lord then did say, that the present plan was hostile to the constitution. At all events let them understand this, that the placing of education under the control of the executive, for the equal and impartial diffusion of knowledge amongst the people, was by Gentlemen opposite considered hostile to the constitution. He admitted, that it was indeed hostile to the old Tory constitution. Aye, and he believed, that there was a feeling of hostility on the part of the people towards that old Tory constitution. When the people had a little more knowledge, knowledge of which the noble Lord and his Friends could not now deprive the people, they would very soon replace that old constitution by something much better
 290 291
 Mr. Hawes  observed, that of all the great questions which had been debated since he was in the House, he did not consider that there was one of them which involved a principle of higher importance than that which was then before them. He rejoiced that it had come to this issue—for the vital principle of religious liberty was now at stake—and now it was, that all who were determined to abide by the principle of the equality and impartiality of religious liberty throughout the country should give a hearty and steady support to the proposition of the Government. That great principle had been recognised by the Toleration Act; it had more recently been enforced in the repeal of the Test and Corporation
 285 "By bringing into one common system of education, and that not an irreligious system, all the various classes of Churchmen and Dissenters in this country, you will sink religious rancour and animosity, and establish in the minds of the youth of all sects and persuasions a bond of harmony and friendship which the struggles and vicissitudes of after life will not be sufficient to break, and which to the com-
 286 "I am most anxious to afford the Established Church every protection and support which can and ought to be given to it consistent with justice to all classes of the subjects of this kingdom; but of this I am confident, that it will not be best maintained by keeping up a system of injustice and exclusion; and if I may be allowed to express an opinion on the subject, I will frankly say, that in my mind the main cause of the spread of dissent has been occasioned amongst the lower classes by the insufficiency of the education and religious instruction with respect to the tenets of the Established Church, and amongst the higher classes by that strict line of exclusion which those who are desirous to protect the Church have drawn around it. I am satisfied that if you intend to attach particularly the higher classes of Dissenters to the Established Church, you can take no more effectual course to attain that object than by giving them a full participation in the same civil privileges, and admitting them to the fullest, freest, and most unreserved intercourse with the members of the Church of England in our general and national institutions." 287 Cheers. "We, the undersigned several churchwardens, take the liberty of directing the attention of the parishioners to a scheme which has for its ultimate object the introduction of mutilated bibles and Romish and Socinian catechisms into every national school in the kingdom." 288 "On this subject I need only say, that it is her Majesty's wish that the youth of this kingdom should be religiously brought up, and that the right of conscience should be respected." 289 
 
 "CENTESIMAL PROPORTIONS OF PERSONS OF THE DIFFERENT DEGREES OF INSTRUCTION. 
 1838. 1837. 1836. 
 Unable to read and write 34·40 35·85 33·52 
 Able to read and write imperfectly 53·41 52·08 52·33 
 Able to read and write well 9·77 9·46 10·56 
 Instruction superior to reading and writing well 0·34 0·43 0·91 
 Instruction could not be ascertained 2·08 2·18 2·68 
 
 "CENTESIMAL PROPORTION OF PERSONS OF THE DIFFERENT AGES. 
 1838. 1837. 1836. 
 Aged 12 years and under 1·58 1·52 1·84 
 — 16 years and above 12 9·92 9·72 9·71 
 — 21 years and above 16 29·13 29·23 29·03 
 — 30 years and above 21 31·24 31·74 31·42 
 — 40 years and above 30 14·75 14·56 14·43 
 — 50 years and above 40 7·02 6·65 6·76 
 — 60 years and above 50 3·00 3·24 3·33 
 — above 60 years 1·58 1·55 1·40 
 — unknown 1·78 17·9 2·08
 The Speaker,  as the hon. Member had appealed to him, must certainly say, that no Member had a right to speak at any length on presenting a petition. But when the House considered the circumstances of the case, and the position in which the hon. Member was placed, perhaps they would see that there were grounds for granting some indulgence in the matter.
 Mr. Kemble  was prevented attending the meeting, but as it had been stated by the hon. Member for Lambeth, that there was a majority in favour of Mr. Curling and his party, he (Mr. Kemble) begged to say, that all whom he had seen, who had attended the meeting concurred in saying, that the majority was most decidedly in favour of the resolutions proposed by his worthy colleague.
 Mr. Hume  thought the House should first have the petition read to know whether it really did purport to be the petition of the meeting.
 Captain Alsager  could only repeat what he had stated before, that the petition was the result of the meeting over which he presided. No one was admitted to the meeting without a card similar to the one which he then held in his hand, and which bound all who used it to acquiesce in the decision of the chairman. Out of the 1,200 persons who were present there were about 200 Liberals, who made an incessant noise during the whole time. He endeavoured to make an explanation to them, and to point out to them that the meeting was expressly held to propose and second certain resolutions. Those resolutions were proposed and seconded; and he told the parties that they had not met there to discuss the question. So far from being turned out of the chair, he begged leave to observe, that the hon. Member was not present or he would not have said so. No person attempted to turn him out of the chair, so long as he chose to remain in it. No person inter-
 229
 Captain Alsager  replied, that he presented the petition as the result of the resolutions which were passed at the meeting alluded to.
 Captain Alsager  presenting a petition from a meeting held at the Horns tavern, Kennington, against the proposed grant for National Education,
 Mr. Slaney  said, that he felt very deeply the importance of this subject, and lamented to witness the tone of party spirit which the debate upon it had taken. He deeply regretted that this should be considered a question upon which the two great opponent parties in this House might try their strength, when by the exercise of a little spirit of moderation and conciliation, a good understanding might be effected upon many points on which he was certain a great majority of the House cordially concurred. He was convinced that there were a great number of Members on the opposite side of the House who, however they might disapprove of the Government plan, were as anxious as he was himself for the promotion of the blessings of education amongst the people. The hon. Member, amidst great confusion, then made reference to the report of the committee of which he was chairman, and in which the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool, had moved a resolution which went far to neutralize the grounds of opposition which were now assumed to the proposition of her Majesty's Ministers. This resolution was to the effect, that the assistance at present afforded by the Treasury should be extended so as to meet the extraordinary difficulties and the varying demands of the case. Now, this, he thought, was in spirit tantamount to the resolution proposed by her Majesty's Government. He objected to the former plan proposed by Government, that before any assistance was given to any particular place a certain amount should be subscribed towards the required funds; as this would necessarily altogether exclude the poorest places from all assistance, which were the very places he was sure Gentlemen on both sides of the House would agree were those which most required and were best entitled to that assistance. He thought it wise, therefore, on the part of her Majesty's Government to have reviewed and modified this regulation so as to meet the circumstances in various cases of this kind, He should be glad also that the
 297 "The kind of education bestowed upon the working classes was as lamentably deficient in amount as it was bad in quality;" "The subject was one which demanded some immediate efforts on the part of the Government to remedy it." 298 "In reading the proportion of persons who had received any kind of education was but one in seventeen, in the eastern parts of London, one in twenty-one in the south-west of London, one in twenty-seven in Manchester, one in thirty-five in Birmingham, one in thirty-eight, and in Leeds one in forty-one."
 Mr. Attwood  was thankful for the indulgence extended to him, and would only trespass a few minutes longer upon the attention of the House. But he wished to say a few words in explanation of his own peculiar situation. Although he most cordially supported the petition, was ready to support every word contained in it, and was determined to use every means in his power in order to carry it out into a law, he must say, that many reports had gone abroad, in regard to arguments said to have been used in support of the petition on different occasions, which he distinctly disavowed. He never, in the whole course of his life, recommended any means, or inculcated any doctrine except peace, law, order, loyalty, and union, and always in good faith, not holding one face out of doors, and another in that House; but always in the same manner, and in the same feeling, fairly and openly doing all that he could as a man, a patriot, and a Christian, to work out the principles which he maintained, and to support the views of the petitioners. He washed his hands of any idea, of any appeal to physical force. He deprecated all such notions—he repudiated all talk of arms—he wished for no arms but the will of the people, legally, fairly, and constitutionally expressed—and if the people would only adopt his views, and respond to his voice—if they would send up similar petitions from every parish in England, and go on using every argu-
 227 "That it might please their honourable House to take the petition into their most serious consideration, and to use their utmost endeavour to pass a law, granting to every man of lawful age, sound mind, and uncontaminated by crime, the right of voting for Members to serve in Parliament; that they would cause a law also to be passed, giving the right to vote by the ballot; that the duration of Parliaments might in no case be of greater duration than one year; that they would abolish all property qualifications, to entitle parties to sit in their honourable House; and that all Members elected to sit in Parliament, should be paid for their services."
 Mr. T. Attwood  said, in rising to present this very extraordinary and important petition, he was aware that the rules of the House would not allow him to enter upon any general statement on the subject to which it referred, nor to go into a defence of the great principles which were there set forth. He should, therefore, endeavour to keep strictly within the rules prescribed by the House, as the proper line of conduct to be observed by Members on presenting petitions, and confine himself to a statement of the substance and contents; and then, perhaps, the House would indulge him by permitting him to say a few words—a few words only—in explanation of the circumstances as regarded his own personal position in connection with the petition. The petition originated in the town of Birmingham. It was adopted there at a very numerous meeting on the 6th of August, last year. Having been so adopted, it
 223 Order, order. 224 225
 Sir G. H. Smyth  rose to order. The hon. Member had transgressed the r les of the House. It was a distinct rule of the House, hat no Member should make a speech on presenting a petition, and he could not believe that any member, with that ridiculous piece of machinery (the immense petition had been rolled into the House), would be permitted to adopt a course that had been uniformly refused to himself and others.
 Sir G. H. Smyth,  as an individual, must enter his protest against the course adopted by the hon. Member for Birmingham.
 Viscount Morpeth  had been almost inclined to flatter himself that all essential differences between the noble Lord who had just sat down and himself were confined to questions relating to Ireland, but he certainly had indulged in this expectation, that if there was one topic, English or Irish, upon which he might have hoped for the happiness of agreeing with the noble Lord, that topic would have been the subject of general education. However, the speech to which he had just listened had dissolved this pleasing expectation, for he conceived that the speech of the noble Lord, and the amendment with which he concluded it, went to this
 260 261 l. l. 262 263 264 265 266 267 in partibus infidelium. 268
 Mr. Warburton  entirely concurred with the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, that it would be extremely inconvenient to discuss so important a question at that time. The hon. Member who had just sat down had complained of the inconvenience of entering on the discussion of this subject on Monday, on account of the shortness of the time which Members would have for the consideration of the report; but if there was any inconvenience in discussing the subject on Monday, how much greater must be the inconvenience if, without having the information before them which the report conveyed, they should at once proceed to debate the recommendations of the committee. He fully acquiesced in the view taken by the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, relative to the minutes of the proceedings of the committee yesterday; and although the noble Lord opposite had thought proper to state three names of the minority, he should not be tempted to follow his example, and to state the names of the majority.
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that they were to see the minutes for the first time on Monday morning, and on Monday afternoon they were to discuss this important subject; and yet but for the information which had been elicited by the noble Lord near him (Lord Mahon) they should have had nothing beyond the papers which had been submitted to guide their deliberations. In his opinion they ought to have all the
 306
 Mr. Alderman Copeland  said, it might look like presumption on the part of so humble an individual as himself to offer any observations upon this important question; but as in the discussion on Monday he might be prevented from stating his opinions, he could not allow that opportunity to pass without protesting in the most decided terms against one portion of the report. He must strongly protest against that part of the report which suggested, that in the event of the sheriff entering up the judgment—that was, in executing the writ of the Court—he should be committed for contempt. What had the sheriff to do but to obey the orders of the Court and to enforce the law, and in executing the writ he did nothing more than obey the law and perform a duty which he was bound to perform. Lethon. Members ask themselves, what the sheriff had to do with the privileges of the House. The judges of the Court of Queen's Bench had laid down the law, and it was the duty of the sheriff to execute it, by carrying into effect the judgment of the Court. These were his sentiments, and he must protest, therefore, against a suggestion which, if carried into effect, could only be considered as an act of tyranny.
 Viscount Howick  anxiously deprecated any further discussion at the present moment. He could not but regret the course which had been adopted by the noble Lord opposite, in giving the names of the minority, and not stating at the same time the names of the majority.
 Viscount Howick  said, the minutes were not in such a state of preparation as to allow them to be read by the clerk. They would, however, be in the hands of Members on Monday morning.
 Viscount Howick  appeared at the bar with a report from the committee appointed to consider the proceedings in the case of "Stockdale  v. "The Select Committee appointed to inquire into the proceedings in the action of Stockdale  v. "Your committee have applied themselves with all the diligence in their power to the consideration of the important subject referred to them, but the difficulties which attended it, and the delay which necessarily occurred in their obtaining a correct account of the proceedings in the Court of Queen's Bench, have rendered it impossible for them to be as yet prepared to lay a full and complete report before the House. Such a report they trust that they may shortly be enabled to present; but in the mean time it is their duty to submit to the House a practical question, of which the decision cannot be postponed, while it will necessarily have a very material influence upon the future proceedings of the House in this matter. "In their former report your committee have apprised the House that a writ of inquiry have been issued for the assessment of damages in the case of Stockdale  v. l "Referring to the resolutions of the House of May 30,1837, your committee consider it an imperative duty to report this circumstance to the House, in order that the House may have the opportunity of determining what course it way be advisable to pursue with reference to the contemplated proceedings of the sheriff in execution of the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench. "Your committee will proceed to submit to the House the different courses which have occurred to them, as courses one or other of which it might be competent for the House to adopt, and will then state which of them has
 302 "1. A writ of error might be sued out, and the decision of the Court of Queen's Bench might thus be brought under the review, in the first instance, of the Exchequer Chamber, and ultimately of the House of Lords. "2. Mr. Stockdale might be suffered to receive the damages awarded, but a Bill might at the same time be brought in, for the purpose of declaring, for the future, the right of the House to publish its proceedings. "3. Instead of attempting to pass a declaratory Act, a Bill might be brought in, enabling both Houses of Parliament to publish such papers as they might think necessary. "4. The House may avail itself of the Constitutional powers it possesses to prevent the execution of the judgment obtained against Messrs, Hansard. If this course should be followed, the sheriffand his subordinate officers would be prohibited by the House from levying the damages which have been awarded, and any failure on their part to yield obedience to this prohibition would be treated as a contempt, and dealt with as such in the ordinary manner. "5. The House might allow the damages awarded in this case to be paid, but might at the same time declare that it would permit no further actions of the same kind to be brought, and that it would immediately commit for contempt any parties by whom such actions should be commenced or promoted. "These are the only modes of proceeding which have been suggested to your committee, and which appear to them to be brought under the consideration of the House; and they will now endeavour to state shortly the opinion which they had formed on these different courses. "1. With respect to the first, the proceeding by writ of error, your committee cannot but apprehend that its adoption might be construed to involve a new and exceedingly dangerous recognition of the principle that the privileges of the House of Commons are subject to the determination of the Courts of Law, and ultimately of the House of Lords. They also conceive that as the result of an appeal must be doubtful, while its failure might greatly increase the difficulty of a subsequent assertion by the House of its right of publishing its proceedings, they would not be justified in recommending to the House to take a step which would expose to such serious hazard its future possession of a power which they believe to be absolutely indispensable for the due discharge of its duties. "2. The second course which has been suggested is open to the same objections, with this addition, that the House of Lords might object to pass a declaratory art, for the purpose of overruling a unanimous decision of the Court of Queen's Bench, which had not been appealed from in the ordinary manner, and which, had been allowed to be carried into effect 303 "3. The passing of an Act to enable the House for the future to publish its proceedings without having them questioned in a court of law would, in the opinion of your committee, be a virtual abandonment of the right which they have no doubt now belongs to this in common with the other House of Parliament, and which ought not, as they conceive, to be surrendered. "4. Should these objections to the modes of proceeding above described appear to be well founded, the next course to be considered is that of resisting the execution of the judgment obtained against Messrs. Hansard, by committing (if necessary) for contempt the ministerial officers of the court by which this judgment has been pronounced. Your committee are not insensible to the many difficulties which might probably arise in thus adopting measures of an extreme kind, to which for many years the House has not been compelled to resort: but at the same time they have to remark, that it is chiefly by using this power of commitment for contempt against the magisterial officers by whose agency other authorities of the State have invaded the rights claimed by this House, that some of those which are now its most undoubted privileges have in former days been asserted with success; and they are, upon the whole, of opinion, that this would be the course most consistent with ancient parliamentary usage, and with the dignity of the House. "It is, however, the duty of your committee to state, that although a majority of their number have concurred in this opinion, they are well aware that the course recommended is one not likely to be successful, unless it should meet with very general concurrence and support, and they must not, therefore, conceal the fact that some even of those members of the committee who are most deeply persuaded of the necessity of maintaining the valuable privilege of the House which has been disputed, are yet of opinion that in the present instance it is too late to do so in the manner which has just been recommended. These members of your committee conceive that the House, by directing the Attorney-General to appear in the action and to defend Messrs. Hansard, has placed itself, so far as regards this particular case, in a situation in which it will be better to abide by the result of the trial which has been permitted to take place, and to allow the damages to be paid, determining at the same time, that any future proceedings of the same nature should be arrested in their earliest stage, by committing for a contempt of the House not only the parties by whom similar actions may be brought, but the agents and counsel they may employ. "Having anxiously considered this important matter, your committee have come to the conclusion, that if the House should be resolved to trust ultimately to the exercise of its own powers for the assertion of the privilege it claims, the objections urged to resisting the
 304 "In conclusion, your committee beg leave to express their regret, that the haste with which this report has been unavoidably prepared, has compelled them to present to the House what they are sensible is a very imperfect view of the important subject of their inquiry; but they trust that the necessity under which they were placed of bringing the course now to be pursued under the immediate consideration of the House, will be deemed a sufficient apology for their not having been as yet enabled to enter upon a fuller and more comprehensive examination of the whole matter referred to them. "June 15,1839."
 Viscount Howick  moved, that the report be printed and taken into consideration on Monday next.
 Lord Mahon  trusted the report would be printed and circulated without delay. It was important that Members should be furnished with the report at the earliest possible moment, in order to afford time for consideration before the discussion on Monday. There was, however, another document relative to the proceedings of the committee, which he hoped would also be printed and circulated with the report—he alluded to the minutes of the sitting of yesterday. The committee had yesterday discussed the main question, and taken a division upon it, and he should now move that the minutes of the sitting of yesterday be read by the clerk at the table.
 Lord Mahon  hoped he would be in order in stating a fact, which he thought it was of the utmost importance that Members should be acquainted with before entering on the consideration of the report. The
 305
 Dr. Lushington  said, he should have been glad if some other Member had addressed the House on this resolution before he himself offered a few remarks upon it. He had not been a member of the committee to whom the consideration of this question was originally proposed; but he had the honour afterwards to be named on the committee which lately sat, whose report the House was now considering, and he felt himself bound to come forward under the existing circumstances, not to oppose the resolution of his noble Friend, but to support and maintain the opinion which, after much consideration, he had taken the liberty of stating in the committee. There was a great deal in the speech of his noble Friend to which he (Dr. Lushington) could give his acquiescence. He concurred in his opinion, that this was a privilege indispensable to be maintained by the House of Commons, without which it would be utterly impossible for the House honestly to discharge its duties to its constituents. But after hearing this privilege so ably maintained, and the various parts of the judgment so ably animadverted on by the noble Lord, he (Dr. Lushington) must confess that he looked upon the conlusion to which the noble Lord had come as an abandonment of the privileges of the House. This was a question of vital importance to the interest of the people at large. It was not a question of personal privilege. It was not a question of privilege from arrest, a privilege affecting themselves personally, or their property; but it was a question of a privilege without the exercise of which they could never satisfactorily perform their inquisitorial duties, expose the abuses which might exist in the administration of justice, give satisfaction to their constituents, or do justice to the people of this country. Let the House look at the circumstances of this case; let them reflect what their position would be if they once abandoned this privilege; and then let them ask themselves how, on a future occasion, differing as it might in all essen
 341 342 343 dicta 344 Cries of "Move, move! diis aliter visum;
 Mr. Pemberton  stated, that the course which the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) had taken upon this subject had been most inconsistent, for, from the very first day in which he had declared his opinion in the committee to the last, he had insisted again and again, that, adopt what course they might—let them pass a declaratory Act or an enabling Act—there was, nevertheless, one course they ought at all events to discard as not worthy of consideration. "What! "said the hon. and learned asserter of the privileges of Parliament," will you submit the question to the decision of the judges, argue it for three whole days at their bar, and consent to take the chance of their judgment in your favour? Can you do all this, and then can you—in common decency can you—turn round upon them, and tell the people of England that you have consented to abide by this chance; that you do not complain of the damages awarded against you being excessive, but that you do complain that the judgment of the court is against you?" Had the hon. and learned Gentleman, he asked, from first to last expressed until that night any other opinion than this? He and others who were of his opinion, had voted for the resolutions of 1837, because they asserted, that a prosecution against an officer of that House, for the publication of its papers under its own order was contrary to law, and a breach of the privileges of that House; they supported those resolutions for the very purpose of bringing them to the test, and defying the power which it was now sought to be assumed. They were now ready, as they ever had been, to concur in any measure the House might consider necessary for the purpose of conferring on it the power, which he contended they had not by any privilege they possessed, or any means of enforcing any privilege they possessed, of protecting all persons acting under them from criminal or other proceedings in courts of justice. The hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, had been leading them through this case for the last two years, and now that it had terminated, they were at the very opposite points of the compass. They
 371 ex post facto 372 "Your committee having considered the subject of Parliamentary privilege and the jurisdiction of this House to determine the extent of its own privileges, submit as their opinion that by the law and usage of Parliament, the House of Commons does possess an exclusive jurisdiction, and that it is a breach of its privileges to bring them into discussion for decision before any other tribunal directly or incidentally, and that such breach of privilege subjects the parties to punishment by this House." 373 "Where it arises incidentally, it is perhaps necessary that the Court, resorting to the best means of information it can possess, should decide the question." 374 "That whosoever shall presume to commence or prosecute any action, indictment, or information, which shall bring the right of the electors, or persons elected to serve in Parliament, to the determination of any other jurisdiction than that of the House of Commons (except in cases specially provided for by Act of Parliament), such person and persons, and all attornies, solicitors, counsellors, and serjeants-at-law, soliciting, prosecuting, or pleading in any such case, are guilty of a high breach of the privileges of this House." "That the declaring Matthew Ashley guilty of a breach of privilege of the House of Commons, for prosecuting an action against the constables of Aylesbury, for not receiving his vote at an election, after he had, in the known and proper method of law, obtained a judgment in Parliament for the recovery of his damages, is an unprecedented attempt upon the judicature of Parliament, and is, in effect, to subject the laws of England to the votes of the House of Commons; that the deterring
 375 376 377
 Lord John Russell  had already said that he was ready to state the course which, in his opinion, ought to be pursued; but it was a matter for the House to determine, for it interfered with the privileges and powers of the House of Commons as a House of Commons, and it did not relate to the conduct of the Government as a Government. It was, however, necessary that in the present circumstances some course should be proposed without any further lapse of time. To-morrow a most important legal step would be taken in the proceedings in the action in respect to which the House had taken the circumstances into consideration. If he did not feel the great necessity of some immediate decision being come to with reference to this question, and that some immediate measure or resolution should be adopted, he would have left it to those who had more deeply studied, and more closely followed than he had done, the question of privilege, and who would have recommended it with greater fertility of argument, and with greater weight of authority; but as it was necessary that some immediate steps should be taken, and as the House from the report of the committee, now knew the absolute necessity of coming to an immediate decision, whether the House would or would not take any further steps with respect to this action, and to certain proceedings which might be taken against the printers of the House, he would therefore propose certain resolutions for adoption by the House. In the first place, and before proceeding further, he would put the House in possession of the resolutions which it was his intention to move. He would move, first,
 "That it is the opinion of this House, that under the special circumstances of the case of Stockdale  v. "That this House, considering the power of publishing such of its reports, votes and proceedings, as it shall deem necessary or conducive to the public interests, an essential incident to its constitutional functions, will
 330 v. 331 l 332 333 334 "It is likewise fit to remark, that the defamatory matter has no bearing on any question in Parliament, or that could arise there. Whether the book found in the possession of a prisoner in Newgate were obscene or decent, could have no influence in determining how prisons could best be regulated, still less could the irrelevant issue whether it was published by the plaintiff." 335 336 "The reasoning is, if you permit the number of copies to be as large as the number of Members, the secret will not be confined to them; and this affords a strong appeal to justice and expediency against printing, even for the use of the Members, what may escape from their hands to the injury of others." "It is said, that if papers, however defamatory, must needs be printed for the use of the Members, as it is plain they must, and the point is not disputed, their further circulation cannot be avoided; for what is to be done with the copies upon a dissolution of Parliament, or upon the death or retirement of a Member? The answer is obvious; the copy of such defamatory matter ought to be destroyed." 337 338 339 340
 Lord John Russell  having moved the Order of the Day for the consideration of the report of the committee on printed papers said, that not having been one of the majority in the committee, he thought it right to say, that if any proposition was to be made to the House respecting the opinion of the majority of that committee, he was quite ready to permit such proposition to be made to the House; what he had to propose could come after such a motion had been made, and he would then state the course which, as he thought, the House ought to take under the present circumstances.
 Lord J. Russell  said, of course he could not positively answer for the committee; but he saw no reason why there should be any long delay. He must, however, take this opportunity of stating, that he did not think the House bound to wait for the production of any report from the committee, for a notice might be given by any hon. Member to-morrow for the introduction of a measure. He was sorry the hon. Member for Kilkenny felt such humiliation at the result of this discussion.
 The Speaker  having put the amendment,
 Sir E. Sugden  said, he could assure the House, that he did not rise for the purpose of answering the able speech of his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down. In a great deal of what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, he fully concurred, and the only question in his mind was relative to the special circumstances of the present case. In his opinion this was not a case of libel, and it ought not to have been treated as a question of libel by the judges, but simply as a communication to the House which was necessary to enable them to frame a measure for the improvement of prisons. In making that declaration, he was emboldened in some measure by the opinions which he held in regard to the publication of the proceedings of the House. It was his impression, that the House was not justified in publishing their reports and proceedings in the manner which was at present acted upon. He thought those reports were published without due examination and care, and he should wish to see rescinded the resolution which the House had come
 409 410 411 habeas corpus 412
 Mr. F. Kelly  wished to offer some observations in reply to the statements of the noble Lord relating to the judges,
 423 Criei of divide
 Mr. Warburton  had thought when he heard the right hon. and learned Gentleman so warmly and so eloquently argue the case, and express opinions in which so many hon. Members concurred, that he would at least have placed the House in the situation to put on record a resolution expressing those opinions. As he had not done so, however, he (Mr. Warburton) was prepared to give those hon. Gentlemen who might concur with him in opinion an opportunity to put their opinion on record. The amendment which he would propose was a paragraph taken from the excellent draft of the report presented to the House by the hon. and learned Member for Newark, who had acted a straightforward and manly part on this question, because the opinions he had expressed he was prepared to maintain. How great a contrast did his conduct afford to that of other hon. Gentleman, who were so loud on former occasions in maintenance of their opinions, and of their readiness to show that those who had adopted the course which gave rise to these discussions had been guilty of a contempt of the privileges of Parliament. He should proposed the following resolution by way of amendment:—
 "That acquiescence in the judgment pronounced in this case will create on the part of the House a great impediment in the future necessary exercise of Parliamentary authority in vindication of their privileges, and that it
 351 res acta, 352 ab initio.
 Mr. Hume , in seconding the motion said, that no Member of the House was more interested in the question than himself, for since he had sat in Parliament no man had brought forward more cases of abuse, in which evidence was elicited which might be considered libellous. He was of opinion, that the powers of the House, as the grand inquest of the nation, would be destroyed if they delayed to do those acts of justice which the interests of the nation required. They might as well shut the doors of the House (which, by the way, many might wish to do) as give up a privilege, by the exercise of which so much good was done, and likely to be done to the country. He was very anxious to hear the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, deliver his sentiments on the present question, for he (Mr. Hume) could not but bear in mind the very argumentative speech which that right hon. Gentleman made on a former occasion in defence of this privilege, which he was now, as he (Mr. Hume) inferred, about to give up, in—the right hon. Baronet must allow him to say—a most dastardly manner. The House would, however, no doubt, hear from the right hon. Gentleman
 353
 Mr. Hume  denied that he had any share in the humiliation of the House. He had said from the first of these proceedings that the House would be dragged into the mud, and now it had got completely into a quagmire.
 Mr. Hume  inquired, how soon any ulterior measures would be brought forward, as until then it would be necessary to put an end to all the printing of the House, because, as the House would not now be able to defend its own servants who distributed them, it must bend its neck to the yoke. The position of the House was most humiliating and disgraceful. He understood that there was no more information to be acquired by the committee, and therefore there would be little difficulty in any Member connected with the committee answering the questions he had put.
 The Attorney-General  felt very strongly the truth of the observation made by his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Home Department, that this was not a Government question, nor was it a party question, for the privileges of the Commons of England were involved in it, and they had but one common duty to perform, namely—to assert their privileges, for the benefit of their constituents and for those who should come after them. He felt called upon to state the reasons why he felt bound to differ from his noble Friend and the right hon. Gentleman. It was his opinion, that this was the time for the House to take its stand; and if they did not now do so, he had no hesitation in saying, that their privileges were for ever gone. This was no party feeling; for, in the divisions that had taken place in the committee, he was supported in the view that he had taken of the subject by his right hon. Friend the Member for Montgomeryshire (Mr. C. Wynn), and by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Stamford, (Sir G. Clerk), and by other Members who sat on the opposite side of the House, and when they came to the division that night, he trusted that it would prove no party question. In the first place he must observe that the on. Baronet the Member for the Univer-
 362 l. 363 l l. 364 365 v. v. v. v. v. 366 367 368 369 damnum absque injuriâ 370
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, as the first resolution of the noble Lord proceeded on the same principle as his, though it did not go so far, nor so straight to its object, it was not his intention to press his resolution to a division, as he merely wished to have it recorded.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that whatever gratitude might have been awakened in the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, towards his right hon. Friend by the opening passages of his speech, every succeeding sentence must have tended gradually to dispel it, because, whatever might be the decision, or the vote with which that speech closed, all the intermediate part was most hostile to the noble Lord's proceedings. A termination more contradictory to the great body of a speech he had never heard. The speech itself, indeed, was worthy of the talents, worthy of the eloquence of his right hon. and learned Friend, worthy of everything, except its conclusion; and why, after seeing so clearly as he did the conclusion to which he should have come, he should stop short and turn round and take another course, was most extraordinary. He would say now, what he had said two years ago, that they had placed themselves in the most difficult position, after being led on by two learned Gentlemen, in which, as a legislative body, they had ever been placed. He saw no alternative for them but retreat, after eating as much leek as ever was eaten by ancient Pistol. He had warned them that such would be the result; and had formerly stated, that the easiest and straightest course would be to retrace their steps. He had told them on the 1st of May 1837, they should do that which they were prepared to do on the 17th of June, 1839—that was, most humbly to acknowledge, by a resolution on the journals of the House, not perhaps in such strong words as he was about to use, that they had bullied the courts of law, and finding that to be of no
 345 346 "In the case of' Fairman v. Ivis,' 5 Barnewall and Alderson, 642, a petition addressed by the creditor of an officer in the army to Lord Palmerston, the Secretary-at-War, was held not to be actionable, although containing defamatory matter; but can it be doubted, that if Lord Palmerston had ordered it to be published, the publisher would not have been liable to an action? Or, can it be contended, that the Secretary of State, to whom the report and reply on which this action is brought were by act of Parliament directed to be sent, to be by him laid before Parliament, would have been justified in publishing them? And if not, why should the House of Commons be at liberty to do so." 347 "In the same manner, the protection of all confidential communications extends no further than the necessity of each particular case requires." 348 in petto 349 "That this House having directed the Attorney-General to appear on behalf of Messrs. Hansard and Son in an action brought against them for the publication of a certain paper alleged to contain libellous matter against John Joseph Stockdale, which paper the House had directed them to publish, and the Attorney-General accordingly having appeared on behalf of the defendants in the Court of Queen's Bench and argued the question of law on a demurrer to a plea—namely, as to the right of the Court of Queen's Bench to inquire into the power of this
 350
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, at that late hour, and particularly as this resolution had been fully discussed with the former, he should not detain the House with any observations upon it. He would state his objection to it in one sentence—namely, that this resolution postponed, perhaps until the year 1842, any ulterior proceedings with reference to this subject. On these grounds he should meet it with a negative.
 Sir Robert Peel , even had he not been so directly appealed to by the hon. Member, would have felt it necessary to give his opinion on this question to-night, because he did not shrink from maintaining the opinion he had given in committee. He had advised the committee to the best of his power, and he should advise the House to the best of his power, and without any of that apprehension of the consequences which some hon. Members had shown. The hon. Gentleman had challenged him to prove, that his present course was not inconsistent with his recorded opinions. On the 30th of May, 1837, he (Sir Robert Peel) was a party to the following resolutions then agreed to by the House:—
 "That the power of publishing such of its reports, votes, and proceedings, as it shall be necessary, or conducive to the public interests, is an essential incident to the constitutional functions of Parliament, more especially of
 354 O'Connell: v. 355 "By the course recommended by the Attorney-general, that they, by the instruction to their officers to plead, virtually submitted a decision on their privileges to a court, the head of which had already given an adverse decision with regard to them. If that decision be confirmed, their next step would be an appeal to the House of Lords; and thus the transfer to a co-ordinate branch of the Legislature of that exclusive jurisdiction to which they laid claim for themselves in matters of privilege. He had every confidence that justice would be done according to the law and constitution of the country; but, believing that the privilege of free publication was essential to the proper discharge of their functions, he could not, without anxiety, see it made the subject of litigation. * "He did not agree with him in thinking, that they should not allow the parties to plead; he added, that he did not think that, by so doing, the House would thereby be surrendering the power and authority which, in the second resolution, it claimed the right to exert." † "The truth was, that this was an attempt to drag them through the mud in a very unpleasant manner."‡ * † Ibid. p. 1283. ‡ Ibid. p. 1296. 356 "Why did you not tell us of the probable result, as you state that you anticipated what would follow, if the steps were taken that had been pursued?" "To revert, however, to the question, what would be the position of the House if the plea were overruled. His opinion was, that the House would be placed in a situation of the greatest difficulty. If the Attorney-general appeared in the case, and argued the matter on the part of the House, undoubtedly it would be something like a submission. All the courts were bound to acknowledge the privileges of that House; but if the case were argued before the Court of Queen's Bench, the court might determine against the House. He would recommend the Attorney-general, therefore, not to argue the question, but to submit it to the court, and ask for judgment. If the court pronounced judgment against the resolution, then this House should take up its proper ground, and honourable Members who would not stand boldly forward in defence of their privileges, could not stand up for any other. Honourable Members should be enabled to leave to their successors the privileges which they themselves had a right to enjoy." * * 357 358 359 "There is no doubt about the right as exercised by the two Houses of Parliament with regard to contempt or insult offered to the House, either within or without their walls; there is no doubt, either, as to the freedom of their Members from arrest, nor of their right to summon witnesses, to require the production of papers and records, and the right of printing documents for the use of the members of the constitutional body, and as to every other thing which may appear to be necessary to carry on and conduct the great and important functions of their charge." 360 "In the case of commitments for contempt, there is no doubt but the House is the sole judge whether it is a contempt or not, and the courts of common law will not inquire into it. The greater part of these decisions and dicta, where the judges have said, that the Houses of Parliament are the sole judges of their own privileges, have been when the question has arisen upon commitments for contempt, and as to which, as I have before remarked, no doubt can be entertained. But not only the two Houses of Parliament, but every court in Westminster Hall, are themselves the sole judges whether it be a contempt or not; although, in cases where the court did not profess to commit for a contempt, but for some matter which, by no reasonable intendment, could be considered as a contempt of the court commiting, but a ground of commitment palpably and evidently unjust, and contrary to law and natural justice. Lord Ellenborough says, that in case of such a commitment, if it should ever occur (but which he says he could not possibly anticipate as one likely to occur), the court must look at it and act upon it as justice may require, from whatever court it may profess to have proceeded." 361 dicta
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  said, that although he was very unwilling to take any active part in this discussion, he could not help attempting to contribute, to the utmost of his power, such information as might be necessary for the due consideration of the question. He thought that any one who attempted to offer advice on this occasion, without feeling that it might lead to consequences extremely serious—without feeling that he offered that advice under great responsibility—would render his counsel innoxious, by shewing that he did not duly appreciate the occasion which called it forth. He had bestowed some attention on this subject; but that attention had been bestowed only with the most anxious desire to inform himself of the true conclusion to which he ought to come. And he was now desirous of respectfully submitting to the House, what appeared to him to belong to the question, with the hope and confidence that, if he had formed an erroneous conclusion, it would be corrected by the wisdom of the House. He had been unwilling to rise, because it unfortunately happened, that in matters on which the House had a right to expect information from professional men, their interference was too often an embarrassment to the House, instead of an assistance, by the opposite opinions which they expressed. He must say, that he had been astonished at some of the opinions which his hon. and learned Friend had just expressed, and he could hardly have persuaded himself of the fact, if he had not known his hon. and learned Friend to be a lawyer, and one of eminence in his profession. In offering his sentiments to the House, he must beg first to observe that they were in a situation in which they were compelled to act. He used the word in the largest sense; because, in forbearing to act, they would produce consequences as distinctly as by any affirmative act they could perform, He had only to congra-
 378 379 v v 380 381 382 l 383 384 l 385 386 387 388 Mirror of Parliament 389 390 "When brought to the bar of the House of Commons distinctly affirmed, that an order of the House was pleadable on bar to any action for an arrest under it, and also that this House was a superior court of a higher nature than the King's Bench, and of greater authority, and that the King's Bench had nothing to do to inspect the actions of this House; and disclaimed the court having questioned the legality of the order or the power, but only whether the party had properly pursued the order." "If the defendant had produced a copy of the journal that would have been sufficient, no judge would have been so silly, or imprudent at least, to have said that had not been a good and sufficient authority." 391 "The House was the sole and ultimate judge of its own privileges and of their extent. They were to be judged by this House alone. No
 392 "Yet, monstrous as it appeared to some, and novel as it must seem to all, it was his firm persuasion that the Speaker ought to appear and put in his plea to the action. Such course was open to him without the slightest apprehension of his surrendering in the remotest degree the privileges of that House, and such course the House could adopt, although it had determined to commit the solicitor for, unless such a course was adopted, how was it possible for the courts below to be apprised of the nature of the case? How was it possible for them to inform themselves of those facts, without the knowledge of which they could not know whether the injury complained of was committed in a private or public capacity?" "He was confident that no authority, no judge in the land, when he learned that it was a question in which the privileges of the House of Commons were implicated, would determine upon it. He entertained no apprehension that either the dignity or privilege of the House of Commons was endangered." 393 394 395 Laughter 396 397 398 399 400 401 402 "That it was settled by many precedents in the courts of law, and, finally, in the case of Burdett and Abbott, that it was competent for the House of Commons to convict for contempt of their privileges, and that they were the judges and the only judges of what was a contempt. The cases of Lord Shaftesbury and of the King v. Patys, were decisive authorities to show that the Courts of Westminster-hall can not judge of any law, custom, or usage of Parliament, and consequently they can not discharge a person committed for a contempt of Parliament. The power of commitment for contempt is incident to every court of justice, and more especially it belongs to the High Court of Parliament." "And therefore it is incompetent for this court to question the privileges of the House of Commons on a commitment for an offence which they have adjudged to be a contempt of those privileges." "The proceedings of courts of justice are daily published, some of which highly reflect on individuals. Yet it is of vast importance to the public that the proceedings of courts of justice should be universally known. The general advantage to the country in having these proceedings made public more than counterbalances the inconveniences to the private persons whose conduct may be the subject of such proceeding. The same reasons also apply to the proceedings in Parliament; it is of advantage to the public, and even to legislative bodies, that true accounts of their proceedings should be generally circulated, and they would be deprived of that advantage if no person could publish their proceedings without being punished as a libeller." "The rights of that Assembly (the House of Commons) are original and self-created, they are paramount to our jurisdiction, and they are above the reach of prohibitions, injunctions, or error." 403 "When the House of Commons adjudged any thing to be a contempt, or a breach of privilege, their adjudication is a conviction, and, their commitment in consequence, is execution; and no court can discharge or bail a person that is in execution by the judgment of any other court. We do not know certainly the jurisdiction of the House of Commons; we cannot judge of the laws and privileges of the House, because we have no knowledge of those laws and privileges." 404 "There are two sorts of privileges which ought never to be confounded; personal privilege, and the privilege belonging to the whole collective body of that Assembly. Courts of Justice have no cognizance of the acts of the Houses of Parliament, because they belong  ad aliud examen "This court cannot know the nature and power of the proceedings of the House of Commons; it is founded on a different law; the  Lex et consuetudo Parliamenti "The House of Commons is a supreme court, and they are judges of their own privileges and contempt's; and if any persons may be safely trusted with this power, they must surely be the Commons who are chosen by the people, for their privileges and powers are the privileges and powers of the people." 405 406 407 l habeas corpus 408
 The Solicitor-General  would not interfere but a few moments; but he could not shrink from declaring to the House that opinion which he had deliberately formed, and declared in the committee, more particularly as he had the misfortune, on that occasion, to differ with his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-general. He at once admitted that his reason for not adopting the proposition included in the amendment was, that, under the circumstances of this case, it was absolutely impossible for the House to take the extreme course suggested, without outraging the feelings of every person in the community. He was aware that he differed from a great number of his friends on this subject, but he begged to suggest to them shortly the grounds oh which he had come to that conclusion. His right hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, had pointed out the extremely good case the House had got in order to assert their privilege. If, indeed, they looked to the subject matter bf the libel, as it was called, he admitted that they had a case so strong, and so irresistible, that he never could hope for the possibility bf a case upon which to try the question with such advantage. That might be conceded. But that was hot the only question to be considered; for if, by enforcing this order, they should carry with it hot only the appearance, but the reality of extreme injustice, then he thought the very first step they took would compensate all the au-vantages the case gave to them. In what would the extreme injustice of such a proceeding consist? If, in the beginning, they had said that the action should not be brought, they then would have imposed an injunction upon the person bringing the action; and if he brought it, it would have been an act bf volition on his part, because he might, or might not, and the House had a right to say, "If you do bring the action, we will punish you." According to his experience of the proceedings in the Court of Chancery, the practice respecting injunctions had been erroneously represented. The court did not restrain the Sheriff, but it restrained the counsel, agent, and attorneys of the party, all of whom were persons who were at liberty to act, or not to
 413
 Mr. Williams Wynn  would trespass but
 414 415 Would not the Court of King's Bench have been, bound to enquire as to the privilege the sole judge will not enquire 416 lands person for the House of Commons have since determined * * 417 Noll Bluff well, sir, I shall find a time 418
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that whatever course it might be fit for those who supported the report to take it would be fitter, in the first place, that her Majesty's Ministers who had proposed the appointment of the committee, and who had hitherto moved all the steps taken by the
 329
 Viscount Howick  said, having had the honour of being in the chair in a committee to which the same subject was referred two years ago, he could not suffer this debate to close without saying a very few words as to what were the grounds on which his vote of that evening would be given. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Newark had argued so admirably, and, in his opinion so unanswerably, that on the general question he need not add one single word. He thought the hon. and learned Member for Newark had demonstrated beyond the power of any answer, and almost beyond the power of all answer, that they possessed that particular privilege of being able to publish such papers as they thought necessary, without question, and also still the higher and more important principle, that that House was the last and only judge of its own privileges. He thought the hon. and learned Gentleman had demonstrated both these points, and he believed that a very large majority of that House concurred with him in that opinion. The only question on which he wished to say a single word was what, under present circumstances, was the course which ought to be adopted with a view of maintaining those ancient and valuable privileges, which the hon. and learned Gentleman had shown that they possessed. On this point, he confessed he had heard with great astonishment, indeed, the speech of the right hon. Member for Ripon (Sir E. Sugden). He said, that "the case was no libel which had been brought before the Court of Queen's Bench;" and yet the course which he
 419 420 421 422 Sugden
 Mr. Cressmell  said, that knowing the interest that was taken in the motion of which the hon. Member
 429 l l 430 431
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could have wished that the hon. Member had taken a night for bringing on the present subject when it would have interfered less with other business, and when it might have been discussed more calmly than it possibly could be on that evening. The hon. and learned Gentleman not having thought fit to pursue that course, though he knew the difficulty there would be to obtain the attention of the House to the subject, when one of greater public interest was about to be brought forward, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), felt bound, in discharge of his duty, to call the attention of the House to the principles involved in the claim of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He would not
 432 l l l l. 433 434 ex parte 435
 The Chancellor  of the Exchequer could assure the House that he believed he now took the same course that he had always taken when this question had come under discussion. He was not now prepared to propose an estimate, and therefore he could not take a different step at present to what he had before taken.
 Mr. Creswell replied , he could not pass by the observation of his right hon. Friend below him, who said, that if the present motion was agreed to, the claimants would plunder the country. He could not understand upon what ground it was stated that those persons whose property was taken from them in consequence of the proceedings of Government, would plunder the country because they sought compensation for the losses they had sustained. It might be said, that the Danes, who had taken 1,200,000 l 439 flagrante bello. flagrante bello 440
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said: In consequence of the adverse vote which has just taken place, I will take care that there shall be placed on the Table of the House a full and entire account of these claims, to the fullest extent they can be carried out. Sir, I enter my caveat against any complaints being again made against me upon the subject. Having done so, I will tell the hon. Gentleman that I shall still think it my duty to oppose the next step he takes, which must be the proposal of a money-vote. I will resist that vote, and tell the House, that if it votes away the money it is the public money that it is dealing with. Although the hon. and learned Gentleman has carried the Address against me, still I must protest against it, and until the House carries a money-vote to pay these claims, I will be no party to the cause in any way. I feel quite persuaded, that there is no Gentleman in this House who imputes to me any motives, or thinks that I am or have been actuated by any other motives in this case than a deep sense of public duty. The day will come when resistance in matters of this kind will be looked upon in another light, and it will be then found that the House has set a bad example upon this occasion, and that it has too much relaxed the rule. The question can be carried no further now than the money-vote, and that remains still an open question.
 Mr. Milne  spoke as follows: * * 477 478 479 480 481 482
 Lord Worsley , in rising to second the motion, said, that he differed in one point from the hon. Member who had just sat down—namely, with regard to the extension of the franchise; but was decidedly of opinion that it was necessary that they should in some way protect the voters to whom they had given the franchise by the Reform Act. If they did not so protect them the House would not long retain the confidence of the people. His impression, was very strong that if they did much longer refuse to give electors the power of voting in the way which their conscientious opinions dictated, they would find the same discontent in the public mind with their proceedings which existed when he first came into Parliament before the Reform Bill was carried. He believed that the parties asking for the Ballot, that they might
 451 452 453 454 s l "There is no man in the House more sorry than I should be to see the legitimate power of the aristocracy put an end to. For what is that power? The influence of affection and of kindness. The power of property is always legitimate, when it is solely a power over the affections of those around us; but there is sometimes another influence arising from it, namely, that of intimidation, and of preventing persons from voting by reason of their fears. I do not see how election by ballot can diminish the legitimate influence of the aristocracy; but, at the same time, I do not see how it would allow the exercise of the illegitimate influence of fear." 455
 Lord J. Russell  said, in rising to address the House on this subject I feel I have no such excuse as that given by my hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Edinburgh, (whose speech stood in need of no recommendation but its ability and eloquence), who said that he was not used for some time to address this House, when I ask the attention of the House for some few minutes; for, Sir, I know—I am perfectly aware that there is nothing I can now address to the House, that has not been addressed to it frequently before, and the arguments I myself have used on frequent occasions I shall be obliged to repeat, meaning as I do to conclude, as I have always done, by declaring my intention of voting against the motion of the hon. Member for London. Sir, I own I could have wished that my hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Edinburgh, had taken a longer time to pause on this important question before he decided on sanctioning this change in the practice of election. I could have wished that he had longer trusted to what he said when Member for Leeds — "the growing and predominant influence of public opinion," before he finally determined to give the sanction of his vote, and what is more, the weight of his ability and argument in favour of this change. Sir, I was the more induced to regret his decision when I saw how little disposed he was to weigh duly what I think some of the strongest objections to this measure. My hon. and learned Friend has said, that no slight objections ought to stand in the way of the adopion of the ballot. But did those objections which he himself has admitted seem to the House of so very slight and in-
 483 484 485 486 487 488
 Lord J. Russell  perfectly agreed in the necessity of public walks and open spaces for the working classes in the neighbourhood of large towns, but the resolution before the House did not advance the object, as it pointed out or provided no means.
 Lord John Russell  was rather alarmed at the doctrine propounded by the hon. Member who had just sat down. He stated that it was an extraordinary war, and that it had been commenced in a most unusual manner, and especially as thirty-two years had elapsed, the claims of the parties more particularly merited the attention of the House. He was afraid that if the House laid down the principle that they were to consider all claims that might
 437
 Mr. Grote , after presenting petitions in favour of the ballot, said: I rise, Sir, to renew the motion which I have before made in several pre-
 443 444 445 446 447 448 449 "That strong divinity of soul Which conquers chance and fate," 450
 Mr. Grote  rose amidst loud cries of "Divide" and "Question," and said, that, at that late hour, he would not trouble the House with many observations. He had endeavoured to provide a remedy for a great and flagrant evil; an evil admitted by all, denied by none. The remedy he had proposed was the ballot, and he must suppose it to be the only one, as no hon. Member had suggested any other. It was now avowed to the House by the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, that the Cabi-
 504
 Mr. Goulburn  could not but adhere to the opinions he had always expressed on this subject. He objected to setting the example of listening to these claims. If this precedent was laid down, applications
 438
 Mr. Warburton  said, the question before the House was not whether it was fitting or not that money should be granted to those claimants. The only question was, whether reasonable expectation was not held out to them, that the Commissioners should proceed to inquire if there were not a certain class of these petitioners whose claims were valid. He thought the reasonable interpretation to be put upon the carrying of the motion of last year was, that the Commissioners should report which of these claims were to be considered valid. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had opposed the vote to the utmost of his power, had stated that he did not consider that to be the object and interest of the vote, or that they should be included in the estimates. It would, however, be a second question, whether these clauses should be included in the estimates. When that came before the House for discussion, they could go into the general merits of the question.
 Mr. Milnes Gaskell  was prepared to admit, with his noble Friend, the Member for Lincolnshire (Lord Worsley), and with the hon. Gentleman who had preceded him (Mr. Grote), that upon no former occasion when this question had been debated had it excited greater interest or attention. He only trusted, that no hon. Member who had been unconvinced by the arguments which had been addressed to him, would suffer himself to be deterred by any indications of an altered course on the part of her Majesty's Ministers upon this occasion, or by any inflammatory appeals that might have been made upon this subject out of doors, from the honest discharge of his public duty. Now, there were three opinions that were held upon this question. The first was that which was so ably and so consistently maintained by the hon. Gentleman himself (Mr. Grote). The second was an opinion which he (Mr. Gaskell) believed to be entertained by a considerable portion of the Gentlemen opposite, and among the rest by his noble Friend who had just sat down, viz.—that this question was one of secondary importance, and that its probable effects, whether for good or evil, had been greatly over-rated. There was also, let him tell the hon. Gentleman, a third opinion, which be felt convinced, was entertained by the great majority of the people of England, and which, he hoped, was entertained by the great majority of their representatives, namely, that this secret system was utterly repugnant to their habits and feelings, utterly inconsistent with the whole framework of their institutions and that, if adopted by the Legislature, it would strike a deadly blow at the stability of the Government and at the character of the people. This opinion was not founded upon any doubt as to the efficacy of the Ballot to promote the purpose of concealment; it assumed, that the hon. Gentleman's machinery would be successful, and that he would be able to obtain the secrecy which he desired. He knew, that the hon. Gentleman entertained a
 456 Speciosa verbis, re inania aut subdola, quantoque majore libertatis imagine teguntur tanto eruptura ad servitium. l 457 458 Cries of "Name where!" from the Ministerial benches. 459 460 Nusquam tuta fides 461
 Mr. Hume  had only a few words to say. Time had only added, in his opinion, to the validity of the claims of the individuals. He thought the preceding Government had acted most unjustly, when, having had in its hands 1,200,000 l 436 l l
 Mr. Sheil  believed it was the universal sense of the House that there ought to be a division upon the question that night. He should obey the wish of the House, and be as brief as possible. His observations would be very short indeed. He rose solely for the purpose of adverting to what he considered to be important facts —facts upon which he should scarcely make a comment. In the year 1833, at a dinner given at Gateshead, the Earl of Durham made an important disclosure— a disclosure in which many members of the Government, and several Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House were concerned. The Earl of Durham, upon that occasion, said, that it had been referred to him—to him, the Earl of Durham, to Lord Duncannon, to the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), now the Member for Stroud, but then the Member for Devonshire, and to the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham), at that time the Member for Cumberland, but now the Member for Pembroke—to arrange the programme of a Reform Bill. It was not stated by Lord Durham at that time what took place at that important conclave of intrepid innovators. A year afterwards a dinner took place at Edinburgh, at which Lord Grey, Lord Durham, and Lord Brougham were present. Upon that occasion references were made — obscure, but quite sufficient to excite further curiosity as to what took place on the important occasion to which he (Mr. Shiel) had previously referred. An article appeared in the  Edinburgh Review, Edinburgh Review. "I am not about to address you with respect to the vote by ballot, and the duration
 489 l l 490 l "This last regulation is one which I certainly should not have proposed myself. It has been projected and carried by persons not connected with the Government, and the Government are not answerable for it. I hope it will be found to act well; but then it is liable, again, to this objection—that if the same influence be exercised over tenants in counties that has been exercised in other places, which it is not necessary for me now to name, it will be likely to generate a very strong feeling in favour of a regulation to which I am myself opposed — I mean the adoption of the vote by ballot." "He was ready to admit, that the increase to the country constituency on this last head (the tenant-at-will) did not proceed from his Majesty's ministers; but that it was imposed upon them by a noble Lord, a friend of his, in another place. In his opinion, the addition to the county constituency from this source was any thing but an improvement. Prima facie, it gave an appearance of weight to the landed proprietary; but the working of this clause would be this—that if any landlord ever exercised the power given to him by it, he would be placed in the same disagreeable
 491 l 492
 Mr. Slaney  rose to move, "That it is the duty of the Commons' House of Parliament to take measures to provide Public Walks in the immediate vicinity of large and populous towns, calculated to promote the health and comfort of the middle and humbler classes." He
 442
 Mr. Macaulay  said, that having been long absent from that House, he wished it had been in his power to be, at least for some weeks, a silent listener to their debates; but the deep interest which he took in this question, and his sense of what he owed to a large and respectable portion of his constituents, whose views on this subject concurred with his own, impelled him to trust to that indulgence which it was customary in that House to bestow. But before he made any remarks upon the question immediately before the House, he wished to advert, for a short time, to one topic which had excited the greatest interest throughout the country, and to which the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had made some very sarcastic, and not, he thought, exceedingly well-judged allusions. It was generally understood that her Majesty's Ministers had determined that the question of the ballot should be an open question—that all the members of the Government should be free to speak and Tote on that question according to their individual opinions. It was natural that this determination should excite censure on the one side of the House, and applause on the other. For his own part, he must say, that, without any reference whatever to his opinion on this particular question, he was inclined, on higher and more general grounds, to approve of the determination of the Government. He rejoiced to see the number of open questions increasing; he rejoiced to see that they were returning to the wise, the honest, the moderate maxims which, prevailed in that House in
 462 463 464 465 466 467 468 469 470 l l 471 472 473 l 474 475 476
 Sir G. Staunton , rose only to withdraw an amendment of which he had given notice and placed on the books to the following effect:—
 "That in order to ascertain by experiment the efficacy of the ballot, as a remedy for existing abuses at the election of Members of Parliament, it is expedient that in the first ten counties, cities, or boroughs, of which one-half or more of the registered electors shall petition for the same, the votes at the next ensuing elections for such places shall betaken by ballot."
 Sir J. Graham  said, he should not have risen at that hour, and especially after the speech of the noble Lord, to take a share in this discussion, if it had not been for some observations which had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. On the general merits of the question he proposed to rest the vote he should give to-night, on the general arguments which had been adduced by the noble Lord, and by the hon. and learned Member for Edinburgh. But the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Sheil) had referred to some facts which he termed historical, which that hon. Gentleman thought changed the complexion of the case, and he (Sir J. Graham) should frankly state to the House what he trusted would be a sufficient answer to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman. He was far
 493 494 "It had been stated by the hon. Member who brought forward this motion, that when his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) introduced the Reform Bill, he said, that this was a question not immediately connected with that measure. But he (Lord Althorp) appealed to every Gentleman who was in the last Parliament, and who knew the whole proceedings, whilst the question of reform was going on, whether the promoters of that measure did not contend, that, as far as representation was concerned, it was to be considered, and was proposed as a final measure." 495 "He (Lord Althorp) had stated that frequently to the House. It might be said, undoubtedly, that the vote he should give tonight would be inconsistent with that which he had given on the motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman(Mr. O'Connell." "But," said the noble Lord, "if he were now to vote with the hon. Member for the city of London, he should be acting more inconsistently with everything he had stated during the whole progress of the measure of reform." "He was conscious that he was liable to attack for the vote he should give; but if he gave his vote any other way, he should be liable to a still more merited attack." 496 shibboleth 497
 Mr. Mark Phillips  agreed, that the resolution would not effect the object they had in view, although he was almost at a loss to know in what shape the subject could be properly brought forward. He thought Crown lands might be exchanged for land in the neighbourhood of Manchester, Leeds, Birmingham, and other places for the purpose of establishing public walks there.
 Sir R. Inglis  hoped the hon. Member would not press his motion, as it was so indefinite that many must oppose it who agreed in the principle.
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to join the expression of his wish to what appeared to be the general wish of the House, that the hon. Gentleman would not press his motion to a division. He thought public aid might be given in assistance to liberal local contributions, and that it would go far towards providing some means of recreation, would contribute to the public health, and would also gratify those who had the greatest means of annoyance, if they felt they were neglected.—Motion withdrawn.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that on the last occasion on which the question of the ballot was discussed, he entered so fully into the subject, that he was unwilling now to trouble the House with a repetition of his observations. All he would now say on that subject was, that his opinions remained unchanged, and he did not know that he should have risen at all, but for the doctrine laid down by the hon. and learned Member opposite, as to the policy of open questions. He must say, he participated with his right hon. Friend in rejoicing at the return of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Macauley), for however formidable an opponent he might be, and however powerful he (Sir R. Peel) might feel that opposition to be, yet he must say, he felt so great an interest in the general character and reputation of Parliament, that he could not regret the return of so distinguished and able a Member. If he had wanted an exemplification of the inconvenience and danger of open questions, he should have found it in the speech just made by the noble Lord, the Secretary for War. That noble Lord said, that the consequence of making the ballot an open question, would be to retard the carrying of the ballot. That might be a good reason for the noble Lord to vote against it; but what must be the situation of his hon. Friends, who were friendly to the ballot, when they were told by their colleague, the position in which they stood was most fatal to the measure. What a tendency must it have to destroy
 501 "I told you, at my election, not to expect that I should vote in favour of ballot. I have expressed in Parliament the opinion, that ballot alone would not satisfy the people at large. Some rebuked me for mixing two questions altogether distinct, and some among my friends voted for ballot, determined not to consent to an extension of the suffrage. It was with some satisfaction, therefore, that I saw in the  Morning Chronicle Morning Chronicle "We have no communication with the  Morning Chronicle Morning Chronicle, "Our first point of union is the ballot. But the ballot, combined with the presented limited franchise, and in the present, which is likely to be the permanent, temper of the disfranchised, would be an unendurable anomaly. It would aggravate the existing breach between the middle and working classes." Morning Chronicle, 502 "I believe, if ballot could be made effectual, those who have no votes would be far more discontented than they now are. Ballot is suited to an absolute government of the few, or a free government where the suffrage is universal. The absolute aristocracy of Venice used in its perfection; the people of the United States use it; it accords with their principle, 'that the majority is to govern.' The will of the people of the United States is supreme; it has no check, and every one shares in the sovereignty. But for the middle classes of this country to pretend to an irresponsible and secret power over the destinies of the country would be, as the  Morning Chronicle Macauley 503
 Sir Stratford Canning  was ready to admit the principle on which the right hon. Gentleman had placed his opposition on this occasion, but still it was to be recollected that a war expedition had been sent out to Denmark, when almost all mankind thought this country was in a state of profound peace with Denmark, and that that war was undertaken with the utmost secresy of intention, so that the shipping trade was exposed to unusual danger. Certainly it was but fair, with a view to satisfy the spirit of justice of the country, that inquiries should be made into these claims.
 Viscount Howick  explained. The hon. Member for London had attached more importance to his words than they deserved. What he expressed was his own individual opinion; and his hon. Friends near him, who took a different course as to the vote by ballot, would take a different view of the effect of making this an open question.
 Viscount Howick  having on more than one occasion expressed his opinions on this subject to the House, certainly did not intend to enter into a repetition of those opinions; but there were some remarks of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Pembroke, from which he so entirely dissented, that he could not allow the debate to close without expressing what his dissent was, and the reasons on which it was founded. The right hon. Baronet had told the House, that the Reform Bill was not a final measure in the sense of binding the Legislature of this country, not to adopt further changes, and had in deed admitted that no measure could in this sense be final; but he said, that it ought to be final and binding in the consciences of those who belonged to the Cabinet, by whom that measure was brought in, and they ought not to become party to any further change in the representation of the country. He was one of those who were most anxious to avoid, any disturbance of that great
 498 499 500
 Viscount Sandon  would put the question at present on this footing, whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer had acted in accordance with the assurance which he gave to the House on a former occasion, or whether he was not now going in direct variance with that assurance. The address now proposed was upon the same footing as the address that had been agreed to before, and he thought it ought not to be opposed.
 Mr. Acland  said, he was deeply impressed with the opinion that the House of Commons was a most unfit place to be the arena of polemic disputation on points of faith or on matters of religious difference, and he assured hon. Members he should not be tempted by the precedent offered to-night to follow the example of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard. The hon. and learned Member had thrown out Some taunting expressions with respect to the hew alliance between the friends of the establishment and the Wesleyan. He would ask the hon. and learned Member, whether he thought that, in Cornwall, where, as he well knew, the labouring classes had all the intelligence of a manufacturing population, and where many of them were Wesleyans, they would be satisfied with any education which was not based on religion? But the hon. and learned Member little knew the character of Englishmen, groaning beneath the grinding effects of the transition system (as it was termed) with respect to the employment of capital and labour in our manufactures, if he thought that their causes of complaint would be remoted or their inconveniencies and sufferings assuaged by such propositions on the subject Of national education as they had been favoured with on this occasion. Men who are suffering the misfortunes of this life, need to rest on the realities of another world; and there was no doubt that they felt severely the state of destitution of religious instruction in many parts of the kingdom, and the consequent deprivation of spiritual consolation in their families. He believed that no description of education dissevered from religion would be acceptable to the working men of England; and he did not think they would be grateful to those Who, like the hon. and learned Member, proposed to extricate them from the Squabbles of conflicting creeds, by involving them in the squabbles of political economy. The hon. and learned Member had borrowed assistance from a doctrine certainly not Very novel, and by which it was always easy to ensure a laugh, namely, that the teaching of mathematics, dancing, and French, was not connected with religion, and thence would have inferred there was a similar want of connection between a system of national education and religion. There was no parallel between the cases.? What might be true
 564 "Provided also, and be it enacted, that nothing in this act contained shall be construed to enable any person,  otherwise than as they are now by law enabled college or school 565 566 l l 567 l l l l 568 569 570
 Mr. Colquhoun  observed, that the question was not, whether they would take any particular step for the purpose of promoting
 546 "Why should we betake ourselves to measures so foreign to the habits and feelings of the nation—so liable to abuse, tending so directly to the worst of all tyrannies? The enslaving of public sentiment is a question I confess myself utterly unable to answer. I can discover no imaginable reason why we should thus toss at the feet of any Government an amount of moral influence, the possession of which, under some circumstances, might lead to the destruction of our liberties." 547 John Russell "The great defect of English education is the total want of a national organization. There is not, as in all continental countries, a Minister and Council of Instruction—wandering voluntary system of instruction. If the State is to touch our public schools at all, she must do it through a proper department—no more grants, or a Minister and Council through which they are to come. Difficulties there may be but none which good sense and strong will may not beat down, There is no possible reason why Government in the case of England should not act as in the case of Ireland. Is a Home Secretary here of shorter arms and poorer courage than a Chief Secretary there? A letter of instruction may fairly anticipate an net of Parliament. What we want is the organization—a board of education for England." 548 549 l l 550 l l J. Russell 551 "It had been sometimes thought, that to succeed in securing to families of different creeds the reality and the freedom of religious instruction, it was sufficient to substitute for the special lessons and practices of the several religious denominations, some lessons and practices susceptible in appearance of being applied to all religions; this would not answer the wish either of families or the law; they would tend to banish all positive and effective religious instruction from the schools, in order to substitute one that is merely vague and abstract." 552 No, no John Russell No 553
 Lord J. Russell  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had divided his argument into two parts; one was that in which he argued against the bill which had been formerly before the House, and the other part was directed against the third reading of the bill, which was carried about twenty minutes ago, To the ques-
 518 519
 Lord J. Russell  thought that the hon. Member had entirely misunderstood the effect of the demand made by the House of Assembly, which amounted to a request that the Ministers of the Crown would give up the right of Parliamentary legislation. It was quite impossible that the Crown should give up that power, and, therefore, no answer has been given to the request of the House of Assembly.
 Mr. C. Buller  admitted, that he was one of those Members whose cry of" No," had called forth so much eloquent indignation from the hon. Member for Kilmarnock. He was sorry to have done any thing to force the hon. Member out of the usual placidity of his demeanour; but he could not but contradict the assertion that the first plan proposed by Ministers had been abandoned by them on account of its blunders, when its abandonment had been justified by them on the single and adequate ground of their inability to carry it in despite of the opposition with which it had been encountered. There was
 554 555 Ironical cheers from the Opposition Stanley 556 557 558 559 Quam parvâ sapientia regitur mundus. instruction 560 561 Cheers from Members on the Opposition benches. 562
 Mr. Goulburn  rose and said, that as this was a subject which, on a former occasion, had been amply discussed, and there was a question which stood for this evening possessing universal interest, he thought that he should best consult his duty by compressing within a very narrow compass, indeed, the observations with which he should preface the motion which he was about to make. The first point to which he should refer was one of form. He had intended to move to omit all the words in the first clause, but if he did that, he should preclude the right hon. Gentleman from making that alteration in the date which he wished to effect. He should, therefore, propose to leave out all the words of the clause up to the date, and if he succeeded in that motion, he should then move to omit the remaining portion of the clause. If he correctly understood what had already taken place in the House, and the assurance which had been given by the Government, he must believe, that the Government  bonâa fide 512 513 514
 Mr. Labouchere  must say, that the spirit of the demands made by the Assembly could not be mistaken. The demand made by the House of Assembly was this,—that the Ministers of the Crown would, on the part of the Government and on the part of the Parliament of England, assure the House of Assembly, that they would deal with them in a different manner from heretofore. He begged to remind the House of the resolution to which it came by a large majority, in which, if he was not mistaken, the hon. Member for Kilkenny himself voted. After the Abolition Act Amendment Bill was passed, the House came to a solemn resolution, which he would read to the House, and he would observe, that the House then deliberately determined that they would continue to watch over the negro, and, if necessity arose, that they would interfere for his protection. The resolution was agreed to on the 29th of May, 1838, and was to this effect:—
 "That this House, at the same time, declares its opinion, that no means should be omitted which can tend to secure to the negro population of her Majesty's colonies the privileges to which they are entitled under the Act for the Abolition of Slavery, and under the Act for the amendment of the Slavery Abolition Act; and further, that the anxious attention of this House will be directed to the state and condition of the negro population, when the expiration of the term of apprenticeship shall have entitled them to the full enjoyment of entire freedom." 511
 Mr. Labouchere , in moving that the Jamaica Bill be read a third time, would take that opportunity of stating that he had considered the objection made by the right hon. Member for Ripon, relative to the time at which the Governor in Council should legislate if the Assembly had not previously legislated. In proposing this bill he had said, that it was far from his intention to fix a period which would not give the Assembly ample time to legislate, and instead of the 1st day of October next, he would move that the blank be filled up with the words "the 15th day of November."
 Mr. Labouchere  could not, consistently with his sense of duty, suffer this question to be put from the chair without saying a few words upon it. He believed that, after all, it was a very simple question. They were agreed that it was desirable that the House of Assembly should again be called together, and have an ample opportunity of retracing the steps they had taken, and of proceeding to discharge their duty towards the colony of Jamaica. But, then, they were also agreed, that the House of Commons should maintain the ground it had always asserted, especially, as in the last Assembly of Parliament, it had been resolved, that measures should be taken, in case the House of Assembly should persist in the course it had commenced, that the interests of the colony of Jamaica should suffer as little as possible from their conduct. The House had, therefore, almost unanimously agreed on that which was the most unconstitutional part of the bill, and which provided for those annual laws in Jamaica, among which were those called money bills. He agreed with his noble Friend, and with the agent of Jamaica, who had addressed the House from the Bar, that that was by far the strongest part of the bill before the the House. He must say, in reference to the slighting manner in which the right hon. Gentleman opposite had spoken of Mr. Burge, who had represented the interests of the House of Assembly, that he was much more inclined to bow to the opinion of their representative, than he was to the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had declared, that Jamaica was in a state
 524
 Mr. Hume , who spoke amidst interruption, was understood to say, that he objected
 515 "I am exceedingly concerned to find, that the planters have succeeded in creating the panic to which you allude. They have made a desperate effort to do this, and they have succeeded. It is currently reported here, that the London journalists, who have lately manifested so much sympathy with our late slave-masters, have been bought for that purpose, and they have certainly shown themselves, especially the professedly anti-aristrocatical part of them, by no means insensible to bribes. Should the Government at all listen to the misrepresentations of the pro-slavery party, it will be a most lamentable circumstance, as it would but revive the differences of which they complain, and which are now almost universally set at rest. The most profound tranquillity universally prevails. Our courts of justice seldom now behold a criminal, and the absence of ordinary offences from the calendar is often the subject of gratulation by the judge. The business of the estates and pens is almost, in every instance, being proceeded with; innumerable spots are being recovered by small setlers from the wastes; new villages are rapidly rising up in every direction; land is nearly double the value it was a few months ago; estates and small farms are seldom in the market, and when they are, although greatly augmented in value, there is no want of purchasers." "The advantages resulting from the new state of things in the towns are too palpable
 516 "The people are going on admirably. On almost every sugar estate in this part of the parish, there is as much sugar making, I believe, as during the apprenticeship. I can mention Orange-Valley (nearly all the people on which are connected with my church), Cape-Valley, Borough-Bridge, and Greenock, where the people are employed by the job, or at 1 s d s d s d 517
 Mr. Hume  protested against such an interpretation of the language used by the House of Assembly. He contended, that there had been no refusal on their part, so far as public documents went, to legislate for the colony, and no man of common sense would say that they had refused. The House of Commons had already interfered with the internal concerns of the island; and this being the case, the Assembly waited to see whether Parliament intended to interfere further, being resolved not to take the useless trouble of legislating, if there was to be any more interference by Parliament with internal legislation. He thought that the House of Assembly had great ground for complaint, considering the manner in which their resolution was drawn up. It was as follows:—
 "Resolved, that in the opinion of this House they will best consult their own honour, the rights of their constituents, and the peace and well-being of the colony, by abstaining from the exercise of any legislative function, excepting such as may be necessary to preserve inviolate the faith of the island with the public creditor, until her most gracious Majesty's pleasure shall be made known whether her subjects of Jamaica, now happily all in a state of freedom, are henceforth to be treated as subjects, with the power of making laws, as hitherto, for their own government, or whether they are to be treated as a conquered colony, and governed by Parliamentary legislation, Orders in Council, or, as in the case of the late amended Abolition Act, by investing the Governor of the island with the arbitrary power of issuing proclamations, having the force of law over the lives and properties of the people." 510
 Mr. Hume  begged to be informed whether the request of the House of Assembly,
 509
 Sir S. Lushington  said, that the question under discussion in the form and manner in which it had been treated could no longer be regarded as of a fugitive character, or of a temporary interest. It had been discussed on great and important principles; and on these it should now alone be decided. He rejoiced that this discussion had taken place; and, for one, he thanked the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire for having brought forward his motion. He cordially thanked the noble Lord for having given the House an opportunity of discussing the question in all its bearings, and for affording the country the means of knowing whether it were to have a national education or no; and, if it were, in what form or shape was it to be offered? He also thanked the noble Lord for another and not less important result of his motion—he thanked him, because it gave the noble Lord, the Member for Dorsetshire, the opportunity of promulgating an opinion in which he cordially concurred, "that the education of the people was a point of the last importance, because it not only led to the suppression of crime, but was also most conducive to their happiness here and hereafter." He held that opinion in common with the noble Lord; but he remembered the day well, when the education of the people was laughed to scorn in that House—the day when it was seriously
 571 572 "Such a restriction appears to this meeting to be due to the yet unrepealed principles of our Protestant constitution, and necessary for the prevention of that direct violation of the rights of conscience which would be perpetrated, if Parliament were to sanction the taxation of the Protestants of England, for the establishment and support of Romish schools, in which the corrupt versions, and mischievous notes of the Romish Church would be made by authority, to a considerable extent, the basis of State instruction." 573 Regium Donum 574 575 576
 Mr. Wyse , in resuming the debate which had now occupied so large a portion of the time of the House, begged leave first to thank the two noble Lords opposite who had taken so large a share in the debate, for it would be difficult to select from the speeches made avowedly in support of the measure, any two that were more calculated to advance it than the two speeches made by those noble Lords in opposition to it. He was willing to give every credit to the noble Lord who preceded the last speaker in the debate, for the exertions he had made on behalf of the factory children; exertions which had secured for him the approbation and the warmest sympathies of all men. He was also ready to give the noble Lord credit for the utmost benevolence; but he must be allowed to say, that the honesty of opinion to which he laid claim seemed to him to be of the kind which arose from a careful exclusion of all arguments on the other side—to spring from conclusions come to by a careful avoidance of all examination (at least in appearance) of what might have been urged against his own peculiar views. Through the whole of his hydra and chimera speech, the noble Lord seemed to have raised up to himself a phantasmagoria of evils, which had no foundation whatever in reality. If the noble Lord had examined the subject, he would have seen that the horrors and desolations of which he seemed to be so much in fear from equality of education to all sects and parties, had heretofore arisen from the want of general education.
 530 "Monstrum horrendum, informe, ingens, cui lumen ademptum." 531 "That this was a system of education which would instil into the minds of the younger population a general belief that the Legislature attached equal authority to all versions of the Scripture—that it was a matter of indifference what creed was taught to the people; and by putting before the mind of the young conflicting doctrines as of equal weight and authority, the foundations of all faith were gradually sunk, and thus the strongest ground of opposition to the scheme substantiated; for through gradual doubt it would lead to general scepticism, and from general scepticism the step was short to national infidelity." 532 533 "Thousands of acres of woods and plantations were utterly ruined from a want of knowledge of the process of vegetation—gross neglect was the rule, and tolerable attention was the exception." "That the farmers for the most part keep indifferent accounts, and many of them none at all, which was a state of things utterly incompatible with any systematic improvement. He has nothing to look to which will indicate with precision the calculations which he has made. Again, in geology, 'that fashionable road: which leads to damnation,' immense errors were constantly being committed. Lavoisier, even without a minute knowledge of farming, by following an enlightened system is said, in good, years to have doubled the produce in
 534 535 "That the great proportion of the inhabited cellars were dark, damp, confined, ill-ventilated, and dirty. The numbers residing in each cellar varied from four to seventeen. As in many (perhaps in the majority of cases), there are only two beds to a family of five or six persons, of both sexes, the inconveniences and evils which must arise from this deficiency of accomodation are too obvious to require further remark." "I have seen human degradation in some of its worst phases, both in England and abroad, but I can advisedly say, that I did not believe, until I visited the wynds of Glasgow, that so large an amount of filth, crime, misery, and disease congregated in one spot in any civilised country." 536 "While the turn-out lasted, the operatives generally wandered about the streets without any definite object. Seventy-five persons were brought before the magistrates and convicted of drunkenness and disorderly conduct; twelve were imprisoned and held to bail for assaults; and about twenty young females became prostitutes, of whom more than one-half are still so, and also two of them have since been transported for theft. Three persons are also believed to have died of starvation; not less than five thousand must have suffered from hunger and cold; and in almost every family the greater part of the wearing apparel and household furniture was pawned. In nine houses out of ten considerable arrears of rent were due, and out of the sum of 1,600 l l "That two-thirds of the youth in Gloucester
 537 "Majority of crimes which were attended by violence, are now committed in the rural districts, although the population and property in towns have increased in a far greater proportion." "Dupin graduates the increase of crime in a direct ratio, according to the condensations of populations in towns." "Your committee are fully persuaded, that to the want of education is to be chiefly attributed the great increase of criminals, and consequently of cost to this country, namely, in twelve years from one to ten; and while the
 538 "At Herne-hill there were fifty-one families, in which there were forty-five above the age of fourteen, and of them eleven could read and write, and twenty-one could do so very imperfectly, and the remainder not at all. There were 117 children under that age, and of these forty-two were at school; most of them made little or no progress, and they were generally taken away at an early period by their parents. Many of the children, who had been two years at school, were frequently found unable to read. The reading of the children in these schools was confined to the New Testament. Many of those who had been educated stated, that they could read the Testament once, but that they could not do so now. It was found, that the Sunday schools were insufficient, as the children could never be brought to connect what they learned in schools with their practice in life, and remained as idle, mischevous, and vicious as before. In Dunkirk there were 113 children; ten of them could read and write, thirteen could do so a little, and the remainder could not do so at all. In Boughton there were 119 children under the age of fourteen, and thirty-two attended school. Only seven attended school where writing was taught; the remainder only went to a Sunday school. These facts prove, that merely religious instruction of the kind obtained by these villagers was not of itself sufficient to fit men to discharge their duties to society." 539 540 l "The Catholic churches, in both the towns and villages, are crowded by worshippers by five o'clock in the morning, not only on Sundays, but on week days, and the priests are in attendance to perform their duties at that hour." 541 542 543 "In the first place, the experience of those states, whose systems I have examined, recommends very clearly, that popular education be taken under legislative patronage and control. It cannot be denied, that in some cases legislative effort has not been crowned with all the success desired; yet it is also true, that the general diffusion of education has never been effected in any age or country, except by governmental aid and direction." "If every parent in the State could and would educate his children, and educate them well, nothing more could be desired. But as it is essential to the well-being of society, that all its intellectual capital should be employed, if any member of the common family cannot educate his children, he should be assisted;
 544 "If all or any are disposed to do it, but to do it imperfectly, they should be overseen. The great object of legislative superintendence therefore, is, to see that all the children in society are educated, and educated well. That these ends cannot be attained without the direction of Government, is demonstrable from the experience of New York, shown in 1816, when the Legislature assumed the control of public schools, the number of children were reported at 140,000; whereas, at the present time, it cannot fall short of half a million." 545
 Sir Robert Peel  would willingly give way to the impatience of the House if he thought that by so yielding he should at all assist the House in doing that which was creditable to itself; but as this was a question which affected one of our most important colonies, he felt bound to intrude on their patience, not for any gratification of his own feelings, but because he felt that the House of Commons would place itself, if they adopted this bill, in a discreditable position. The noble Lord had found it convenient to compliment the speech of the learned counsel, who appeared at the bar on behalf of the
 520 521 sub modo 522 bonâ fide bona fide bona fide 523
 Mr. D'Israeli  said, that he was afraid, that after the speeches which had already been made in the course of this debate, he should have great difficulty in drawing the attention of the House to the consideration of this important question. He felt that the disadvantages under which he must always labour when addressing the House were increased in the present instance by his following in the train of
 579 580 581 582 583 584 585 586 587 588 589 Cries of "No," from the Ministerial benches
 Mr. O'Connell , had only intended to speak upon the general merits of the question, but he felt called upon to notice the opinions which had fallen from the hon. Baronet, and some mistakes which he had made with respect to matters of fact, and which, he must say, had not a little surprised him. He would begin with the least material, and in reference to the petitions which had been presented, he would tell the hon. Baronet precisely what the public cry which had been, raised upon the subject was. True, there had been a greater number of petitions presented against the present than any former plan; but there was a miserable deficiency with regard to signatures,
 609 610 611 612 613 No, no. 614 615 616 617 de hœretico comburendo Morning Chronicle 618 emeute post hoc propter hoc 619 "I beg leave to say, that the difference between the authorized version and the Douay version is not so great as to make it a thing of
 620 l. 621 l. 622
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Differing, as I do, from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone), I differ from him with the most entire respect, because I am perfectly sure that, whether as an author or as a Member of Parliament, no individual comes forward with more frank avowals of what he believes to be the truth; no one places his belief on a higher or a firmer basis, and I believe no one is more ready to expose himself to obloquy, if it were necessary, in maintaining his own honest opinions. But the hon. Gentleman must permit me to say, with equal frankness and freedom, that the principles he has laid down, however consolatory to his own conscience, and however consistent with his theory of the Constitution, are, in my judgment, not only inconsistent with the true Constitution of England—not only unsatisfactory to the conscience of others, but are inconsistent with all notions of civil and religious freedom. Undoubtedly, I shall not pursue the hon. Gentleman through all the topics on which he has touched—I shall refer merely to the principles involved in the hon. Gentleman's speech, and will fight the battle on the field which he has himself selected. The
 635 636 No, no! Oh, oh! 637 Question! 638 639 l. l. 640 641 "I entertain the strongest conviction, that the petitions which come before you on this subject are full of mis-statements, though certainly I am quite willing to admit, that such mis-statements are made without disposition to deceive. I give the petitioners credit for every disposition to support the Church; but it will be for the House to judge of the weight due to their allegations, and to judge also of the wisdom, justice, or expediency of comply-
 642 643 Cheers from the Opposition. "That the religious education of their respective flocks is a duty solely and exclusively be longing to the spiritual authority of the pastors of the Church, and which they cannot resign into other hands without a renunciation of the obligations they owe to its Divine Founder. "Every effort of the State hitherto bore evidence of a determination to interfere with
 644 "Catholic Bishops of Ireland never consulted in formation of this anomalous plan. "Such a power as claimed by practice of the present Board, would be a subversion of all that is sacred in spiritual authority." * "It has been truly said by those who went before me, that we might triumph in getting the better of those little distinctions which keep us asunder—not each sacrificing his own principles, but exercising the Protestant right of judgment, and leaving all to form their own conclusions. It is delightful to see that in this way men of different sects can unite together for the prosecution of their projects for the amelioration of society. In this way, when I unite with persons of a very different kind of persuasion from myself, it affords an augmented degree of pleasure. I feel to rise into a higher nature—into a purer air—I feel dissolved from all fetters that before bound me, and delight in that blessed liberty of love which carries all other blessings with it." * 645 l 646
 Lord Stanley  trusted the hon. and gallant Member would not persist in that motion at present.
 Lord Stanley  was very glad that the gallant Officer had not persisted in his motion, as he was anxious that they should not offer anything like a factious opposition upon this vote. Did Gentlemen really think, that there was an intention to offer a factious opposition? how did the matter stand? The matter was simply to be decided by one vote in that House. The other House was to have no part in the proceedings, and they were not to have the advantage of various stages of bills in that House. If, therefore, the charge of being influenced by factious motives was to be brought against any one, it should be charged against the Government for having introduced the subject in this way. That side of the House objected to the Order in Council. They objected to the going into a committee of supply at that late hour, in order that they might have the opportunity of considering, whether they would oppose the vote in further stages or not. If they had chosen they might have opposed the vote for reading the order of the day. They might have raised an opposition on a question, that the House resolve itself into a committee of supply, and when in committee they might have opposed the vote. And again, on bringing up the report another opportunity of opposing the subject was afforded. If they had chosen they might have opposed the subject in either or all of these five stages. They had a perfect Parliamentary right to try the question upon each stage. But we said that we would in the first instance take the question on
 689
 Lord John Russell  supposed there would be no objection to the motion, that the Speaker leave the chair, without taking any further step.
 Lord J. Russell  at an earlier period of the debate, should certainly have thought it his duty to endeavour to vindicate the plan of education proposed by the Government from the various and numerous mis-statements and misrepresentations which had been adduced on the subject in the course of the present discussion; but their great variety and number deterred him from entering on the task, and he felt, at that time, that it would be fitter to request the attention of the House to the principles called in question by one side and the other, and endeavour to show how far they were contained in the plan under the consideration of the House. Now, he must say, that he thought the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down
 656 657 "It was obvious, that a Government attempting any system of education in our own country would find the ground in a very different state, because it had been occupied in great part by those societies and institutions which had voluntarily undertaken the task of educating the people. They would find it occupied to a certain extent by the Established Church, and in other parts by the Wesleyans and other Dissenting societies, who gave education according to their own religious principles. For these reasons it would not be possible to establish any system of education which should at once supersede those recognised and established modes; and even were the new system allowed by Parliament generally to be a much better system of education than those at present existing, it could not be expected immediately to supplant and come in the place of those various schools at present in operation; in short, no general system could be introduced without doing violence to the habits and feelings of the people of this country. Such a plan was unsuited to these kingdoms, and was likely to be unsuccessful if attempted." "He was ready to state to the House what were the measures which the Government thought were in the first place most desirable. He would say, then, that the measure which was most desirable was the establishment of a good normal school. He said a good normal school, for whatever might be the religious
 658 * * 659 660 661 "516 prisoners were quite ignorant of the simplest truths, 995 prisoners were capable of repeating the Lord's Prayer, 37 prisoners were occasional readers of the Bible, 7 were familiar with the Holy Scriptures and conversant with the principles of religion. Among the 516 entirely ignorant, 124 were capable of repeating the Lord's prayer. This last table corresponds in its general features with that of last year; and I can add little to the observations which I then made upon the subject of ignorance in religion, unless it be to state that very few of the whole 1,129 persons, probably not more than 20 or 30, had habitually attended any place of divine worship. This estimate will be almost undisputed by all those who have observed the almost general desertion of the house of God by that portion of the working population which consists of males in the prime of life; and I think, that if the subject were investigated, it would appear, that this desertion is in the ratio of the density of the population. Village congregations would be found least obnoxious to this remark, and those of large towns most so.' 662 "In reviewing and digesting the details exhibiting the religious and moral condition of the prisoners on entering Parkhurst prison, one point has (even with their present limited number) forcibly struck my attention, and that is, the comparatively large amount of acquirement in the mechanical elements of instruction, by means of which that condition is improved (the art of reading and repetition from memory), contrasted with the lamentably small degree of actual knowledge possessed, either of moral duty or religious principle. This appears mainly to have arisen from the meaning of the word read, or sounds repeated, having rarely been made the subjects of enquiry or reflection. The following digest will in some degree illustrate this position. Your Lordship will perceive, that although 58 prisoners can in some degree read, 83 repeat
 663 664 665 666
 Lord J. Russell  wished to take the vote at that time.
 Lord John Russell  felt bound to recall to the attention of the House, that the original motion was, that the House resolve itself into a committee of supply, to which the noble Lord had interposed a three nights' debate by proposing his resolution, and he trusted, that further opposition would not be interposed to their going into a committee of supply, and above all as the proposal that was intended to be made had been exposed to every sort of false construction. He was perfectly aware, that he had a perfect right to make the proposition, and he protested against the opposition that had been given to it. He was aware, that in so numerous a House it would be mere loss of time to press the House to resolve itself into a committee, but he must at the same time say, that he did not think that the course pursued by the Opposition was either reasonable or just.
 Mr. Hawes  had intended to say, and he believed he did say, that the State was bound to educate all the Queen's subjects; but he did not say each in their particular creeds. In general education they had a right to aid from the State, but their particular religious doctrines would be taught by pastors of their own religion.
 Colonel Sibthorp , who was received with loud shouts of laughter, said that it had been objected to the right hon. Ba-
 688
 Colonel Sibthorp : Certainly not if you wish it.
 Mr. Gally Knight  addressed the House
 601 602 603 carte blanche
 Mr. Plumptre  objected to a subject of this importance being decided without the concurrence of both Houses of Parliament, for if ever there was a question which required the grave consideration of both branches of the Legislature it was that of national education. He was convinced that a Board of Education such as that proposed could never give satisfaction to the people of this country; in fact, neither the members of the Established Church nor orthodox Dissenters could see in that Board any security that the education of the people would be carried out upon those principles which they deemed to be of paramount importance. He conceived that the Members of the Privy Council would be unfit persons to discharge duties of so grave a nature, more especially when one of their number had declared in another place that he saw no great difference between the tenets of the Protestant and the Roman Catholic Churches. He denied that because Roman Catholics and Socinians were called on to contribute to the revenues of the State, the Government was bound to encourage them in their varieties of opinions, religious and political. The proposition, if yielded, would open the door to the wildest anarchy on political, and to the wildest errors in religious matters. Much had been said by hon. Members opposite of Gentlemen on his side of the House presuming to judge others, and he must say, that those remarks came with but an ill grace from hon. Members who
 593
 Mr. Gibson  said, that the hon. Baronet opposite, when he observed that on the Committee of the Privy Council there was no member of the Church seemed to draw a very singular distinction between the Church and the clergy. The articles told him (Mr. Gibson) that the Church consisted of the congregation of the faithful, and he could not bring himself to suppose that four members of the Church, for such he believed were the four Members of the Privy Council Committee would be hostile to the Church because they were not clergymen. He must also protest against one doctrine laid clown by the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire—that the schoolmaster of the Churchman's children, ought, in regard to their religious education, to be under the regulation of the ordinary. From this principle he wholly differed. He thought the present duties of the ordinary were quite enough; and, in the present state of religious feeling throughout the country, he would as soon think of putting the ordinary under the schoolmaster as the schoolmaster under the ordinary. He was of opinion that the schoolmaster should, in all matters relating to the secular education of the children, be quite independent of all Church influence, even though the children should be Churchmen's children. In these days, when so many sects were springing up, even in the Church itself—when they heard daily of Evangelists, of Puseyites, and of those whom the former chose to designate as world-seeking Churchmen—the office of the schoolmaster would be liable to be interfered with in the most unpleasant manner by the clergyman of the parish. The doctrine which the noble Lord attempted to set up sounded very like infallibility; and he could tell the noble Lord that if once infallibility were set up as the guide for the people of England, it was very doubtful whether they would not take the infallibility of Rome in preference to the infallibility of Oxford. For, be it remembered, the infallibility of Oxford was of comparatively recent date, while that of Rome had at least prescription in its favour. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Somersetshire had also
 595 596 597 598 599 "A stands for Angel, who praises the Lord; B stands for Bible, that teaches God's word; C stands for Church, to which righteous men go; D stands for Devil, the cause of all woe."
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that it was with the deepest and most unfeigned reluctance, that he took part in the present debate, for he knew, that the vital and cardinal principles on which it turned were deep and abstruse principles of religion, which never could be discussed in that House with advantage. To the doctrine that subjects of theology were unfit for discussion in that House general assent was given; and the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, who had just vanished from his place, had laid down in his speech most forcibly and most clearly the view which he took as to the introduction of questions of theology into that arena, and had stated with great precision the reasons why they ought not to be made subjects of discussion in that place. But how did the hon. and learned Member apply his theory? By putting questions to him. It seemed, that he as an individual Member was to be examined in that House, as to his religious opinions when it suited the purposes of the hon. and learned Member; but,
 623 624 Morning Chronicle l. l l. 625 626 627 628 Member 629 laughter 630 "That your petitioners feel the deepest gratitude for the expression of her Majesty's most gracious wish that the youth of this country should be religiously brought up, and the rights of conscience respected, while they earnestly hope that the education of the people, Jewish and Christian, will be sedulously connected with a due regard to the holy Scriptures." 631 632 John Russell 633 "The committee approves the discretion which induced the Government not to urge forward speedily a plan which a multitude of persons under much misapprehension had resolved to oppose, and would now advise them, as a general rule, to distribute any further Parliamentary grant in the same manner as those which have on former occasions been implied, conferring assistance on poor and populous districts, while local contributions cannot be collected under the inspection and
 634
 Mr. Ewart  said, that the arguments of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, if they were good for anything, went to restore society to a state of savage barbarity. The hon. Gentleman had gone so far as to express a qualified opinion in favour of the condition of the unfortunate persons inhabiting the cellars of Manchester. These people were in a state of almost barbarian ignorance; and yet the hon. Gentleman had said that they were actuated by the sincerest desire for that education, which he, notwithstanding, refused to extend to them. The hon. Gentleman had certainly thrown out some very ingenious arguments in praise of ignorance, and had contended, that every person ought to be left to himself to procure education. That was a new doctrine. Would the hon. Gentleman deny that a system of centralization had before existed in England? What did the hon. Gentleman say of their universities? Did they not afford an instance of the system of centralization? Let him look at the inscriptions on their ancient walls, and then say what inference he could draw from those inscriptions, if it was not that their founders intended to establish a central system of education? The hon. Gentleman had spoken of railways, but did it follow that though the formation of railways should be left to speculators, education should also be left without the aid or interference of the State? Did not the hon. Gentleman admit that it was necessary to centralize justice, and by a parity of reasoning was it not as necessary to centralize education? The hon. Gentleman had alluded to China, and had said that in that country a centralized system of education had for long existed, and that the officers of the Government were promoted for their educational attainments. But was that an evil? On the contrary, he believed that by such a system democracy had found a vent, and the country been
 590 chose espirituelle chose ecclesiastique 591 592
 Sir G. Staunton  was anxious to explain in a few words the vote which it was his intention to give on the present occasion. He could bear with perfect resignation any taunt or obloquy which might attach to the course of conduct he purposed to pursue. He might truly say, that he had always been a warm friend to religious education, and had ever been desirous that it should be extended to every class and denomination in the country; nor had he ever felt it to be inconsistent with his religious duty to contribute as a private individual what assistance he could to the Roman Catholics and Dissenters for the promotion of those objects, for he had felt, that he ought not to suffer his attachment to his own peculiar religious faith to make him forget that those classes were linked and joined together by their common Christianity. With these views he had cordially supported the foundation of the London University, because it afforded to Dissenters the highest education, and enabled the Legislature to leave Oxford and Cambridge intact and unaltered. He gave her Majesty's Government every credit for coming forward with a plan of national education, but still the plan proposed differed to a great extent from the mode of education now pursued by the Established Church—it placed the direction and superintendence in a lay and political Board, upon which no member of the Church was to sit, and he could not think that conformists and non-conformists could be safely educated together. He regretted that the matter had been taken up as a party question, but for himself he would say, that though approving generally of the policy of her Majesty's Government, and being ready on political questions to surrender his private feelings,
 594
 Sir Harry Verney  thought that the proposition of the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, was a most unfair
 600
 Sir J. Graham : He should not venture to rise to address the House but that he thought the present occasion so important that he should not like to give a silent vote; and inasmuch as his side of the House had been challenged to state frankly their opinions, he, not presuming to speak for any other individual than himself, should state exactly those feelings which impelled him to support the motion of his noble Friend. As this protracted debate had proceeded, the magnitude of its subject increased palpably to his view. He was disposed to consider it one of the most important subjects that had ever been debated. He should not at that hour trouble the House with any details of the plan introduced by her Majesty's Government. That part of the subject had been already treated with great ability and perspicuity,
 647 "My object in supporting the principle of the bill is to remove the test which now impedes the course of the Dissenting student; but I do not wish to interfere with the future statutes of the universities, provided they do riot impose this test. I cannot admit, and I hope my hon. Friend does not contend, that h should be in the power of Dissenters to claim that the statutes should be void because they may in some manner appear to obstruct the privileges given them by this bill. But I should not be content unless a provision is in-
 648 "Since I have advocated the admission of Dissenters to the university, I will not deny or conceal from the House that circumstances have since occurred which, in some degree, altered the opinion which I entertained at first. I am bound to say, that, from the tone they have held, from the pretensions they have put forward, both in and out of the House, and of the ultimate intentions of many, avowed by members of their own body, I am justified in looking with jealousy at the measures brought forward for the purpose of promoting the views of the Dissenters."
 Sir J. Graham :—Then he understood the hon. Gentleman to say, that the State was bound to give, at the public expense, general education, but to leave each sect to receive religious instruction from their own sect. But that was not the plan of Government; by the plan of Government normal schools were to be established where religious instruction was to be provided. But the doctrine of the right hon. and learned Gentleman he could not mistake; that all sects had a right to be instructed at the public charge by their own instructors. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that that could not be a national system of education which did not provide for the instruction of persons of all creeds at the public expense, or with the aid of the public purse, and that that aid will be given without distinction of religious creed; and the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had assented to the proposition. If this principle were adopted by Government, how could there be a creed favoured by the State as a national church? The hon. Member for Newark had proposed a question which the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had completely eluded, and it remained to be answered: if they applied aid from the public purse to the education of the youth of the country in Dissenting principles, how could they refuse similar aid to the instruction of the adult population? If aid was to be granted to Dissenting teachers, how could it be denied to Dissenting chapels, and how could endowments be refused to Socinian chapels? The hon. Member for Kilkenny shook his head; he was afraid the hon. Member had spoken, and that the House could not have the benefit of his answer. He should like, however, to have some answer to this question from the other side. It had been said, that the poverty of particular districts constituted a claim. But a large parish with a large population, at a distance from the parish church, had a stronger right to aid from the public parse than a Dissenting chapel.
 650 651 652 653 654 655
 Sir R. Inglis  would begin by saying a few words with regard to what fell from the hon. Member for Ipswich, whom he did not see in his place, but in another place from which the speech of that hon. Member would have come with more propriety. [Mr. Gibson had crossed over, and
 604 605 606 607 608
 Sir R. Peel said , I shall not be sorry to escape from the discussion of some topics which have been adverted to in the course of the present debate, not because I undervalue their importance, but because I consider them much too important for discussion in a popular assembly. Neither will I undertake to defend every opinion which has been advanced in the course of the debate. I mean, said the right hon. Baronet, that I shall confine myself to the consideration of the practical merits of the proposal on which we have to decide, rather than to the consideration of the speculative opinions which may have been advanced by the hon. Member for Newark, or others. If I did enter, at this time of night, into the discussion of such speculative opinions, involving so many various considerations, do I not know I should be imitating the example of hon. Gentlemen opposite, and diverting the House from that which is the practical question now under debate; namely, whether or not, it would not, on the whole, be best, that the noble Lords motion be acceded to, and the Crown addressed to rescind the Order in Council, by which the committee of education had been appointed? That is the practical question to be decided this night, and I give my hearty concurrence to the motion of my noble Friend, and will not follow her Majesty's Government and other Gentlemen on the Ministerial
 667 668 Hear, hear. 669 670 l l. 671 "With this difference of opinion on the subject, he confessed he did not see, until there was more likelihood of agreement among the leading persons who were in favour of the general education in this country, that it would be a good plan to establish a general commission or board by the Government, because, whatever board might be constituted, would create a jealousy on the part of all those who were opposed to them." "That the interference of Government, by appointing a commission or board of education in the present state of the question, would create great jealousy among all parties, and would be injurious to the purpose of education itself. He therefore hoped the motion of his hon. Friend would not be persisted in." 672 673 674 675 "In my report of last year I exposed the alarming deficiency of moral and religious instruction then found to exist in our schools. That deficiency, in regard to religious instruction, could only be explained by supposing that school committees, whose duty it is to prescribe school books, had not found any books at once expository of the doctrines of revealed religion, and also free from such advocacy of the ' tenets' of particular sects of Christians, as brought them, in their opinion, within the scope of the legal prohibition. And hence they felt obliged to exclude books, which, but for their denominational views, they would have been glad to introduce." "Of course I shall not be here understood as referring to the Scriptures, as it is well known that they are used in almost all the schools, either as a devotional, or as a reading book." 676 677 Member 678 Hawes 679 680 "It seems that one William G. Griffin, with others, felt aggrieved at the practice which obtains, in some common schools, of 'praying, singing, reading the Bible, and other religious exercises;' and, therefore, 'prayed the Legislature to enact a law prohibiting the practice, in such schools, academies, and seminaries of education, as receive aid from the public treasury.' In recommending that the prayer of the memorialists be not granted, the committee go into a discussion of the subject which is remarkable for its clearness, candour, and cogency of reasoning, and such as must more than satisfy, we should suppose, every reasonable mind. "The public schools established by law are supported by a state fund, and by taxation upon the property of the people. These schools are open to all, although none are obliged to send their children to them. But, says the report— "'It is to these schools, as we are to suppose, that the children of the petitioners are accustomed to resort, and in some cases it is fair to presume that it is found exceedingly inconvenient, perhaps impossible, for these parents to furnish their children with the means of instruction anywhere else. They are, therefore, obliged to resort to these schools, or take the alternative of keeping their children in utter ignorance; and it is under these circumstances that they come before the Legislature with the complaint that, on resorting to these schools, they find there a practice introduced—that of indulging in devotional exercises—which they deem highly offensive and objectionable. The grounds of objection to this practice, as far as we can gather them from the memorial, are two:— "'1. That the Christian religion is thus supported or aided at the public expense. 681 "'2. That the rights of equality and rights of conscience are thereby invaded, inasmuch as the unguarded minds of their children are thus exposed to be contaminated.'"
 Sir R. Peel  objected in principle to their being compelled to take the sense of the House at a single stage. He objected to their legislating, for they were legislating—on an important matter of this kind by merely taking a vote in a committee of supply. He did so on principle, and nothing should have induced him to sanction their going into committee of supply and voting this estimate at the present sitting. He had never done so before, but he should have felt it to have been his duty to offer every opposition in his power to such a proceeding. He should certainly have put his opinion on record, but he objected on principle to such a proceeding. They were asked to legislate by a single vote of the House of Commons, and without any discussion, at half-past two in the morning. He, therefore, did not concur with the noble Lord as to the view which he had taken of the subject.
 Sir R. Peel  objected. The proceeding was not by bill, but by resolution in committee of supply. He, therefore, objected on principle to the course that was proposed.
 Mr. Pryme  supported the clause. Although he respected the noble Lord's motives, he could not agree with him, that even supposing Roman Catholic prisoners had shown an indifference to religion, they were, therefore, to be refused the advantage of moral and spiritual instruction.
 710
 Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell  thought it rather singular, that the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken should have reserved his objections in point of detail, while he advanced none against the principle of the clause, for this stage of the bill. If the hon. Member would move, that the
 711
 Mr. Williams  felt so strongly the impropriety of the vote, that he moved its rejection. If Manchester acquired a charter, Manchester ought to pay for it, and not expect all the other cities in the country, which were not benefited by the incorporation of that town, to contribute to the expense.
 The Solicitor-General  reminded the hon. Member, that Manchester and Birmingham had been obliged to contribute to the expense incident to inquiring into the state of the corporation of Coventry. Nothing but a necessary expense had been incurred, and if the House refused to sanction this vote, it would be tantamount to a declaration that no more charters should be granted.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that Coventry had enjoyed a charter for 400 years, so that the cases were not analogous.
 Mr. W. Williams  would not divide the Committee on the question.
 An Hon. Member : How can the right hon. Gentleman make out that the expenses of Lord Durham's mission amounted to 50,000 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to offer a few words to the Committee, by way of explaining away a misapprehension which seemed to have arisen in the mind of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir S. Canning), with reference to his having cheered. He disclaimed all motives of which the right hon. Gentleman could reasonably complain, and denied any intention of expressing the slightest improper feeling towards him. He had no wish to mix up old recollections with the present vote. Suppose he had been in the House at the time Lord Durham made his motion about Mr. Canning's mission to Lisbon, and suppose he had voted with Lord Durham (then Mr. Lambton) upon that question, what on earth could that have to do with the present discussion? He had to apologize to the right hon. Gentleman for any re-
 721
 Mr. Langdale  observed, that in two long debates, in which the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, and the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Tamworth had taken part, this question had been fully discussed. The noble Lord, therefore, had nothing to complain of on that head. The noble Lord had said, that by this clause a blow was aimed at the Established Church. Now, that he had never attempted and never would. He had been informed, that in districts where Roman Catholics were numerous, the Roman Catholic clergymen were obliged to leave their congregations to attend to prisoners in the care of the State. It had, therefore, appeared to him just that the State should make provision for the religious instruction of those prisoners. It was now proposed to separate the inmates of prisons in order the more effectually to give them moral and religious instruction. That being the case, he would ask, could the House refuse to furnish them with that instruction which alone they would be willing to receive?
 Mr. Fox Maule  moved, "That the House resolve itself into a Committee on the Metropolis Police and Metropolitan Courts Bill (advances out of the Consolidated Fund)."
 Mr. Fox Maule  observed, that he merely required an increase of the grant for the purpose of enabling the House to decide upon the propriety of increasing the salaries of Commissioners and Magistrates.
 Mr. Fox Maule  moved, that a sum not exceeding 1,200 l.
 Mr. Fox Maule  protested against the statement of the noble Lord, that any attempt had been made to smuggle this clause through the House. It had been fully debated on no less than four different occasions, and every opportunity had been afforded for the public consideration of it. With regard to the noble Lord's observations in reference to spiritual instruction for the army, it should be recollected that persons who entered the army did so voluntarily, and knowing to what extent they could avail themselves of spiritual instruction; whereas persons who were incarcerated in prisons were forcibly removed from society, and being thereby deprived of the ordinary means of obtaining that instruction, it became their duty to provide it for them.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that there were several clauses which he intended to propose should be added to the bill by way of rider, but he wished to move, that they be read a first and second time, and then be referred to the Committee to which the Metropolitan Police Bill was referred, in order that the Committee might report that they were proper clauses to be inserted.
 Lord John Russell  said, that it had been considered, that what was law without Temple-bar ought to be law within Temple-bar, and, therefore, his hon. Friend had proposed to introduce the same clauses which had been inserted in the Metropolitan Police Bill into the City Police Bill.
 Lord John Russell  moved the third reading of the Prisons Bill.
 Lord J. Russell  said, the objection of the hon. Member opposite, was directed to the system of separate confinement, though that system had been approved by persons of the highest authority, who had seen it in operation in America. What was proposed by this bill was to enable the proper authorities in each county to introduce
 707
 Lord Teignmouth  rose, to move the omission of the 14th clause. That clause had been hurried through the House without sufficient discussion, and the division was pressed on in the absence of many hon. Members on that side of the House, who would have voted against the clause. After the postponement of the discussion upon the clause upon a former stage of the measure, at the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, who objected to so important a discussion taking place at eleven o'clock at night, it could not have been expected that the clause would be afterwards disposed of in so summary a manner. Many hon. Members had been induced to support the provision by the argument, that as prisoners were deprived of the means of obtaining such religious instruction as they themselves
 709
 Mr. Pringle  said, every town requiring a police force was obliged to come to that House and bear the expense of obtaining a bill, and he thought in the same way that they ought also to pay for a charter of incorporation. In his opinion, it would be introducing a bad precedent if the House were to consent that the public should pay for those charters.
 Mr. C. Buller  thought the establishment of corporations in large towns was of great importance to the public, as well as to the towns themselves. The Bristol riots had shown the effect of a want of a good police and a good municipal executive. These riots had cost the country many thousand pounds, and had a good municipal executive existed, all that expense might have been spared.
 Mr. C. Buller  regretted, that this question, which certainly deserved the attention of the House, should have given rise to any personal feeling. If any party or personal motives had been attributed to the right hon. Baronet when making a temperate inquiry, there might hare been some reason for his heat.
 Mr. C. Buller : If such an imputation had been made, it might have accounted
 718 Hansard's Parliamentary Debates. A dependent republic. 719 720
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that it was necessary to make inquiries before any charters were granted, and how could they be paid for but in this manner? It was on account of these inquiries that the present sum was to be voted.
 Mr. Maclean  said, perhaps the noble Lord would allow him to ask, if we were not at war with Persia, whether any reparation had been made by the Schah for the insult offered to the servant or messenger of Sir J. M'Neill? And he begged to put another question to the noble Lord at the same time, in relation to the explanation of Count Nesselrode respecting the conduct of Counts Simonitch and Viscovitch? He begged also to ask him whether any accounts had reached this country of an outrage on Sir Frederick Maitland and the crew of the Wellesley,
 704
 Mr. Darby  seconded the amendment The bill would impose large expense on the country, with very little chance of success. Neither the results from Glasgow nor Philadelphia afforded sufficient evidence to show, that the system was practicable throughout the country, and on that ground he must support the amendment.
 Mr. Goulburn  recommended, that the vote of the Committee should have reference to one of the bills only. If the proceeding were confined to the Metropolis Police Bill, the subject would still remain open, and he, therefore, should not object to the Speaker's leaving the chair.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought, that the expense of these inquiries ought to fall upon the parties applying for the charters, and not be defrayed by the public money.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, it would be better to give the Governor-general a specific amount for his expenses, than to allow him an unlimited power of expenditure; for, however well his discretion might be exercised, the other plan would be more satisfactory to the country.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that if the expenses
 714
 Mr. Labouchere  relieved from the necessity of entering into any explanation respecting the expenses of the Earl of Durham's mission, by the statement of the hon. Member for Liskeard, but must state that in the opinion of his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Department, that expenditure had not been by any means extravagant. With regard to the expense of his passages, to and from this country, much misrepresentation had gone abroad. The fact was, Lord Durham had not interfered in that matter at all—he had merely sent to the Admiralty a list of persons for whom he required passages, leaving the whole of the details to them. With regard to the missions of Dr. Bowring and Mr. M'Gregor, he was surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman say, that the Ambassadors possessed sufficient knowledge to enable them to do without such services. The right hon. Gentleman himself had admitted the merits of Dr. Bowring, and he was happy in that opportunity of bearing his testimony to the talents, acquirements, and industry of Mr. M'Gregor. No public servant had ever rendered greater services than that gentleman.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, the vote was properly asked. He knew that in the case of one application for a charter, a great many forgeries were committed with respect to the names of the petitioners, and the Privy Council found it necessary to send down commissioners to inquire. The Government was bound to pay the expenses of those commissioners.
 Mr. Hume  apprehended the resolution was a mere initiatory proceeding to enable the Government to introduce a clause in the bill. When that came to be discussed, the proper time would have arrived for deciding whether the salaries of the Commissioners should be fixed at 1,000 l., l.,
 Mr. Hume  bore testimony to the very efficient manner in which the Commissioners performed their duties. No man in London, even the county coroner himself, ever devoted more time, energy, and talent to the public service, he would say, "from daylight to sunset, and during the night."
 Mr. Hume  objected to one of the items in the vote, for the expense incurred in granting the charters to Manchester and Birmingham.
 Mr. Courtenay  was also opposed to it. In his opinion the parties applying for the charters ought to defray the expense attending them.
 Mr. Estcourt  objected more particularly to that part of the clause which stated that whenever Dissenters of a certain denomination should amount to a certain number, a chaplain should be provided for them, than to the particular sect for which such chaplain was required. He saw no reason why fifty prisoners should be regarded, in this respect, of so much greater importance than five prisoners. Was the soul of one of the fifty more valuable than one of the five? Besides, the chaplain to a gaol was a very important officer, whose authority would be considerably diminished by the introduction of other chaplains. He regretted the noble Lord would not divide the House on this clause, against which he protested, as calculated to lead to very great inconvenience, and as being highly injurious to the prison discipline of the country.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  could not but think the whole of the bills which had been introduced for the improvement of the metropolitan police very clumsy and bungling pieces of legislation. Already had the
 712
 Mr. T. Duncombe  objected to this course. The hon. Gentleman had proposed, after the bill had been read a third time, to bring up about thirty-four clauses, and to refer them to a committee. He should like to know whether this could be done according to the forms of the House. The clauses were of the most objectionable nature, and he should object to their being referred to a Select Committee, thinking that if the clauses were good they ought to be discussed by the House.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that although it might be considered matter of form in that House to vote away money, the people considered it matter of extortion. Although he admitted there were some good provisions in the bill, there were many bad ones of which he disapproved, and which he should oppose. He objected to the salaries of the magistrates, which were too large, and he could see no reason for increasing the salaries of the Commissioners of police. It should not be proposed to increase the salary of the Commissioners to 1,200 l. l. l. l., l.
 Mr. Wakley  objected to moving such a resolution in so thin a House.
 Mr. Wakley  said, the right hon. Gentleman was completely mistaken. It was not a hare he had started, but a Prince and a Princess. In regard to the expense of obtaining charters, he thought the burden ought to be borne by the parties who applied for them, and he hoped the hon. Member for Coventry would divide the House against the vote.
 Mr. Wakley  said, they were told, that there would be a great number of these applications for charters, and he thought, that if they were to sanction this expenditure, they would be only opening a fruitful source of patronage for the Government. These expenses were for objects purely local, and to make the public pay for such objects was neither fair nor just. The Government had sent down commissioners to the various towns, but they had not been told what those commissioners had done, and he would call upon any hon. Gentleman to show any other body of men acting judicially who were entitled to send out persons at the public expense to make inquiries relative to the cases that came before them for decision. He really did not understand these estimates, for in one place, he found a sum of 11 l. s. d.
 Mr. Mackinnon  wished to put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, relative to the Persian Mission. Her Majesty, in her Speech from the Throne, stated, that circumstances had caused the withdrawal of the British Envoy from Persia. It appeared, that Sir John M'Neill had been a resident in this country for some time, and had also bad an audience of her Majesty, and he begged, therefore, to ask whether the mission had not concluded? It appeared, that the Secretary to the Embassy, together with an  attaché, l. l.
 The Attorney-General  said the expenses under consideration were not the expenses of the parties petitioning for or opposing a charter, but of the Privy Council. That body had to decide, not merely for the different parties, but for the public, and it was impossible for them to know whether they should grant a charter until they had investigated all the circumstances of the case. It was more economical to send down a commission to the country, than to bring all the witnesses up to London.
 Mr. Pakington  had already stated the strong objections he had to the 14th clause, enabling the Dissenting ministers to visit the gaols, but as that clause against which he had already recorded his vote might form the subject of a specific motion by the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone (Lord Teignmouth), he would not now trouble the House with any observations in support of his objection to that particular provision of the bill. His further objections were to the second and third clauses, which gave magistrates the power to order separate confinement without any limitation or restriction whatsoever. He assured the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department that in objecting on that ground to the further progress of this bill, he had no intention or wish to get up a vexatious or groundless opposition; he gave the noble Lord every credit for a desire to improve the prison discipline of the country; but he submitted that this important change in the principle of the prison discipline throughout the kingdom admitted of very considerable doubts as to its propriety. The noble Lord, he believed, relied in support of this measure on the results which had been shown to attend the system of separate confinement in the Penitentiary at Philadelphia, and in the report of the inspectors of the prison at Glasgow. That being the case, he (Mr. Pakington) must be allowed to refer to authentic returns in reference to the results of the system in the Penitentiary at Philadelphia; and in doing so, he did not trust to persons who might be supposed to be led away by their prejudices or private bias, but to documents the authenticity of which could not be questioned. In page 334 of the book he held in his hand, and to which reference on a former occasion had been made by the hon. Member for Lambeth, he found it distinctly laid down that the system of separate confinement in the Penitentiary at Philadelphia had not produced those effects in the suppression or diminu-
 706
 Sir Robert Peel  said, if they were to adopt the course proposed by the hon.
 702
 Sir S. Canning  said, he had been formerly in possession of the committee, but had yielded his right in order to allow hon. Gentlemen to run down the hare which they had started. He had allowed the discussion relative to the corporation charters to go on for an hour and a half,
 715
 Sir S. Canning  must throw himself upon the House. The hon. Gentleman behind the Chancellor of the Exchequer was mistaken; he had not complained of what had been said, but what he had seen.
 Sir S. Canning  said, that with some deductions, he found that the personal expenses of the noble Earl were 32,000 l. l. l. 717
 Sir S. Canning  rose to direct the attention of the Committee to that part of the estimates which was under the head of "Special Missions." He was perfectly aware, that these estimates had reference rather to the future than to the past, but, as the past was in some degree an indication of the expense to be incurred in the future, they would not be doing their duty if they allowed any portion of these estimates, in regard to which there might be any doubt, to pass without observation. The first thing to which he would call attention was, the charge for the mission of Sir Charles Vaughan to Constantinople, and he would beg the Committee to recollect the peculiar circumstances connected with that embassy. The amount charged in the present estimates was only a part of the expense which it was said had been actually incurred, and when it was considered, that the embassy had not succeeded, that, in fact, the ambassador had never reached his destination, he thought
 716 l., l. l.
 Sir T. Fremantle  thought, that the money ought not to be paid by the public. The Privy Council was a court before which the parties came. Let them, then, pay their own expenses, and do not let the Government say, "If you cannot make out a case, we will send down commissioners to make out one for you."
 Viscount Dungannon  expressed his entire concurrence in the humane and considerate view which had been taken of, this question by the hon. Member behind him (Mr. Pakington), and must also express his disapprobation of the principle of intrusting to individuals connected with the government of prisons the power of inflicting solitary confinement.
 Viscount Howick  said, it was of the utmost importance, that municipal institutions should be granted to all the great cities in the kingdom, and no difficulty, therefore, ought to be thrown in the way. It was absolutely necessary, that inquiries should be made, and, as persons could not be compelled to subscribe for that purpose, the expense must be paid by a public vote.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, the hon. Gentleman had made rather a long exordium to a short question, which he might answer at once, but that he was anxious to set the hon. Gentleman right in reference to some statements he had made. Everybody knew, that when a difference arose between Governments, it frequently happened that an envoy might be withdrawn without a cessation of amicable communications, though there might be
 703
 Viscount Palmerston  said, in reply to the first question of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he had to state, that no sufficient reparation had been made by the Schah of Persia for the outrage committed on the messenger of Sir J. M'Neill. With regard to the explanation of the Russian Government with regard to the conduct of Counts Simonitch and Viscovitch, he could only refer the hon. and learned Gentleman to the papers already laid on the table of the House, which contained the answer of the Russian Government to the applications made on the subject. Then with regard to the other question, we were certainly not at war with Persia, though there was a very serious interruption of our communications. He had received accounts of the circumstance to which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred, but they were not exactly as he had stated them. There had been no difficulty about the landing of Admiral Maitland at Bushire, for he had landed without interruption, and friendly communications afterwards took place between him and the Governor, but the dispute arose on his embarcation. The Governor insisted that he should embark from the Custom-house quay, instead of the usual place near his residence; and he being informed by those in the service that such a course was not usual, and that in fact it was an indignity to which he ought not to submit, he refused to comply with the regulation, and insisted upon embarking from the quay opposite his residence. He took the necessary precautions; the boats of the Wellesley were got ready, and during the embarcation shots were exchanged between the parties. This circumstance and subsequent differences led to the departure of those in the service of the East India Company, who settled
 705
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  said, the opponents of the vote which had been proposed seemed to lay great stress on one argument. They said that although the plan first proposed by Government was abandoned for the present, yet whenever a lull in the public feeling should take place the plan would be revived. But could not the plan be revived just as well whether the present grant was agreed to or not? Would not the Privy Council have just the same power? But, in fact, the opposition to the grant was, as has been admitted by several speakers, neither more nor less than an opposition to any scheme of any national education which was not placed under the control of the Established Church. The objection, however, applied with quite as much force to the grant of last year, which had been divided between the National Society and the British and Foreign Society. The real cause of the opposition was, that a party cry had been unfortunately raised in this country—a party cry of the worst character; for of all party animosities the worst was that in which, to the bitterness of political strife, there was added the threefold bitterness of religious bigotry. The Gentlemen opposite had taken advantage of that cry. But what was the position in which they had placed themselves? They had before coincided in the propriety of a grant
 760 odium theologicum 761
 Mr. V. Smith  said, he should endeavour to confine the few observations he intended to make entirely to the subject now under discussion, and not follow the example of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, by entering into arguments, which as he thought, were more applicable to the former debate than to the present. The first argument of the hon. and learned Member for Liverpool was, that on this occasion they were interfering with the other branch of the Legislature, but he seemed to have utterly forgotten that the privilege of voting the public money particularly belonged to that House. The hon. and learned Gentleman had advanced it as something novel in the history of the country, that they were now proposing a vote for money for the purpose of establishing a principle independent of the other branch of the Legislature. But if the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred to the acts of the last twelve years, would he not have found that the same thing had been done year after year? Would the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire have broached that same principle on which the hon. and learned Gentleman had so long dwelt? He would ask whether the system of Irish education was not established by a vote of that House? What, too, did the hon. and learned Member say to colonial education, to the education of the negroes, which was on a most comprehensive plan? And yet he talked of the House giving away this principle, or rather receding from it, because it was not done with the united voice of the other branch of the Legislature. There was one other argument of the hon. and learned Member to which he would advert, though he considered it more applicable to the previous discussion, and it was on the subject of the Order of Privy Council. He knew it was the determination of hon. Gentlemen opposite to fight this ground inch by inch; but they must allow that one inch had been already gained by their opponents, because they had got the assent of the House of Commons to that Order of the
 769 Laughter. l. 770 l. V. Smith 771 V. Smith V. Smith's 772
 Mr. Langdale  said the noble Lord opposite belonged to that section who were most consistent in the conduct they were pursuing. He could understand the consistency of the noble Lord when he said, to the Established Church, alone, should the education of the people of England be consigned. But he did not so well understand the ground taken by the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire. If he understood it it was this—that he was willing to give education to all the people of England except the English Roman Catholics. He acknowledged the number of petitions on the Table—he admitted there was a strong feeling on the subject throughout the country, but considering the means adopted for raising that cry, it was wonderful that the expression of feeling had not been more strong. But had there been any one instance in which a public meeting had been called to give the sanction of the people to the question? There was not a single instance; for where meetings had been called the supporters of the Government plan had been excluded from them. He wished the House to consider the tone of these petitions. Did the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, adopt the tone of them? There was no term so abusive—there was no imputation so infamous that it had not been used in these petitions against a particular class of religionists. If the noble Lord did concur in these petitions, he ought to adopt the tone, and concur in the plans brought forward in another place, and propose the repeal of Catholic Emancipation altogether. If they excluded any particular class, it was a breach of toleration—if they excluded the Roman Catholics from showing in a public grant, they made them pay a penalty for their religion. A great deal had been said about the State conscience. Those who talked in this manner in order to carry out their con-
 756
On the motion of  Lord John Russell , the House resolved itself into a Committee of Supply. The noble Lord then said, that having already explained his opinions upon the subject of the vote of this evening, he should not think it necessary to enter into the general question in proposing it in a committee of supply. The objections that had been taken, or which might be taken, to the general subject of education, rested on a great principle, which could not be very conveniently discussed after the long debate which had taken place with respect to this subject before the Speaker left the Chair. It might be said, that the whole education of the people should be left in the hands of the Church, and that this House ought not to contribute any sums of money which should not be placed at the disposal of the Church; but these were not the questions now in dispute—but they were whether this House would agree to a vote of 30.000 l. 732 733 734 735 736
 Lord John Russell  had no wish to enter into the general question which had been discussed, but as there had been one or two questions asked him by the hon. and learned Member for Liverpool, and by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, which had caused some surprise in his mind at their being put, he thought that he was bound to give some explanation. The hon. and learned Member for Liverpool had stated his wonder at the course which he had taken, and doubted extremely whether he had given up the minute of April, or had adhered to it. He must say, that if the hon. Gentleman had wished to know his intentions he would have done better if he had consulted the Report of the Privy Council of the 3rd of June, instead of the extract which he read from some essay on education among the proceedings of the Central Society of Education, which the hon. and learned Member seemed to think was a great authority upon the subject. Now the fact was, that in that minute it was stated expressly for what purpose the vote was to be applied; and he would take the report of the Committee, and would read a part of it, which stated exactly what the application of the money would be. The report said:—
 "The Lords of the committee recommend that the sum of 10,000 l. Read on! "The committee do not feel themselves precluded from making grants in particular cases, which shall appear to them to call for
 792 Goulburn: l. 793 "The committee are of opinion that the most useful application of any sums voted by Parliament would consist in the employment of those monies in the establishment of normal schools, under the direction of the State, and not placed under the management of a voluntary society."
 Lord Teignmouth  had listened with the utmost astonishment to the tone which had been adopted by some hon. Gentlemen opposite, considering the extraordinary concordance of opinion which prevailed as to the absolute necessity of making religious instruction form an essential portion of any system of education provided by the State. He was almost led to believe, that the noble Lord opposite had gone the length of propounding in that House, what he would not have attempted to assert anywhere else—the doctrine of a general Christianity, abstracted from distinct and peculiar tenets. He must for one, protest against the very pernicious powers in this respect, which it was proposed to intrust to the committee of Privy Council. He had listened with attention to the deprecatory speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, but it had not in the smallest degree altered his conviction that the present Government, from the moment when it first came into power, had evinced a continued and uninterrupted hostility to the Church of England, which would, no doubt, have broken out into overt acts in other instances besides that of the appropriation clause, but for the constant, vigilant, and combined exertions of their opponents. The hon. Member for Leeds had spoken of certain bodies of Dissenters, as contrasted with the Wesleyans; but he would beg to remind the hon. Member, that the Wesleyans were as numerous as the whole of the rest of the Dissenters, with whom they might be considered, in Parliamentary parlance, to have "paired off" on this
 753 754 755 L'Avocato del Diavolo;
 Mr. Cresswell  was desirous of stating in a few words the one or two reasons which should induce him to withhold his consent from the vote now called for; and inasmuch as it had been observed on both sides of the House that they were departing from the question really before them, he should state what the true question was which they had to consider. It appeared that her Majesty, by the advice of her Ministers, had constituted a committee to superintend the application of the funds to be voted by Parliament for the purpose of National education; and it had been said that the appointment of that committee so far from being desirable, could lead to no good; that instead of being an advantage it would be an evil; and here it was, that the policy or impolicy of the measure had been brought into direct discussion. By a majority of five it was voted that there was nothing so objectionable in the measure as to call for an address to the Crown praying that the Order in Council might be rescinded; but when they saw the majority so small, and the opposition so great, he did think that it became them to ascertain what the powers were which were to be given to the committee so constituted and so sanctioned. It was not merely the grant, but the use to which it might be applied which they were called upon to discuss, and it was for the House to say whether they were prepared, without the sanction of the House of Lords, to adopt such a course. It was said by an hon. Member opposite that this grant was withheld because of its effects, but it was obvious that without the grant there could be no effects. The committee might be appointed to determine the regulations, but if they had no money either to pay inspectors or to bribe schools to submit to them, what would become of their proceedings? The noble Lord opposite was a Member of the Central Board of Education, and what were the sentiments of a party connected with that Board? Why, he said, (in a pamphlet which had been published,) "Let the central board have power to build schools, let them have power to support good schools already established, and the way would be gradually paved for a more comprehensive system, and bringing charity schools under the control and direc-
 762 "All hopes of amendment were to be distrusted, owing to the balance of parties in the country, and perhaps it would be years before any Bill for establishing a system of national education would pass the House of Lords; but then a Bill for national education was not a  sine qua non, 763 764 765 766 767 l. 768
 Mr. Baines  said, that as he had sat for two successive Sessions of Parliament upon School Committees, to inquire into the practicability of establishing a system of national education, and as he had devoted much time to the consideration of the subject of education, he found it to be impossible for him to consent to give a silent vote on the question; but he should not trespass at any great length on the attention of the House. The noble Lord, in the observations which he had addressed to the House, had confounded two things essentially different; he supposed that the plan of education which the Government had proposed in the Minute of Council of the date of April 10th, was identical with the plan proposed on the 3rd of June. He thought them to be very different, and he was ready to admit that the plan of the 10th of April was open to considerable ob-
 749 750 751 752
 Mr. Litton  was anxious to raise his voice against a system of education which, in Ireland, had totally failed. No man who had a regard for the established religion of the country, who valued it as the shield of our religious and civil liberties, could sustain the proposition of the noble Lord, the effect, if not the object of which, was to subvert the Protestant religion. He wished that hon. Members should distinctly understand, that no part of the plan contained in the minute of the 13th of April had been abandoned by the Government. The first resolution of the committee was, that education was to be based on religion, which was to be mingled with every part of education; and, in a subsequent part of the resolution, what we called "general education" was to be an education in religion of all kinds, and versions of
 757 758 759
 Mr. Goulburn  felt deeply the importance of the sentiments with which the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary had concluded. He had listened, also to the whole of the arguments used in the debate from beginning to end, and confessed, even at that late hour, he was unable to understand the plan of the Government. He had heard different explanations, but he wished to know distinctly the fact, whether the original plan was actually abandoned or not? Did they mean to adopt the course explained in the
 787 788 789 790 791
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has stated a fact by which his imputation against the Government is refuted. He mentioned, that a Catholic priest had applied to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for a grant of money for a school in Scotland, and that the money had been refused. Why? Because it would have been applied to the purposes of exclusive instruction in the tenets of the Catholic Church. Does not this prove, that the Government does not mean that any part of the fund should be applied to a school attached exclusively to one Church, and does it not thus repel the charge of the hon. Gentleman, grounded on his own misconception of the intentions of the Ministers? The hon. Gentleman spoke of the intentions of Government. I will not presume to conjecture the objects of the hon. Gentleman. I shall venture, however, to intimate a hope, that the hon. Gentleman was not resorting to any illegitimate expedient to raise a no-Popery cry. I pass, however, from the speech of the hon. Gentleman to that of the learned Member for Liverpool. That learned Gentleman has made certain statements regarding the corporation schools utterly at variance with the information which I have received upon the subject. I wrote to Mr. Rathbone, a gentleman of the highest respectability, in order that he might ascertain the exact state of facts. Previous to the passing of the Corporation Reform Bill no more than two or three
 778 "The property committed to the management of the council does not belong to one party or sect, but to the whole community. The obvious duty of the council, therefore, is so to employ their funds as to render them subservient to the benefit of all. In considering the plan upon which the schools should be conducted, the first question that presented itself was—is there any system we can adopt which will render them accessible to the children of all denominations, and make them the means of imparting a valuable elementary education, in which, without compromise of principle, all may participate? Unless a satisfactory answer could be given to this inquiry, the continuation of schools, under the management of the council, and supported by the public property, of which they are the trustees, was obviously impossible. To have continued them on the exclusive and sectarian basis on which they have hitherto rested, would have been an act of gross and palpable injustice, and a flagrant violation of their duty, as representatives of all classes of the people and guardians of their rights. In looking at our state of society in Liverpool, it is impossible to forget, that a very large, and not the least destitute, part of the population consists of Irish Roman Catholics, settled permanently amongst us; and on the ground of justice, humanity, and sound policy, entitled to our sympathy and kindness. They are by birth our fellow-subjects, and have now become our fellow citizens. Driven from their native land by a long course of tyranny and misrule, in the review of which every Englishman may well blush for his country, they present a claim to our most strenuous exertions for their moral and social improvement, and ought to be welcomed to the enjoyment of every advantage we can afford them. Can any benefit be offered to them more truly valuable than a sound and useful education for their children? and is it not in the highest degree desirable, that it should be imparted to them in such a way as may tend to remove the asperities arising from national distinctions and religious differences, and amalgamate them, as far as possible, in habit and friendly feeling with the native population? Regarding the Irish national system of education, as peculiarly fitted for the attainment of both these objects, and convinced that it is founded on enlightened and truly scriptural principles, the education committee determined to recommend its adoption, and the council, by a large majority, confirmed their recommendation." 779 "Liverpool, May 25, 1839. "Sir—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your favour of the 24th instant, and beg leave to assure you, that I shall have the highest gratification in giving you any information in my power respecting our corporation schools. I have been on our education committee from the time the schools came under the management of the reformed town council; I speak, therefore, from my own knowledge, and pledge myself to the accuracy of my statements. "We have the gratification of believing, that the system works admirably, and that, too, though opposed with reckless misrepresentation, and with unscrupulous hostility. The Catholic clergy have acted with great liberality, and with a most gratifying confidence in us, allowing and encouraging the children to come to schools under the direction of a committee at one time wholly Protestant, and the teachers also, and ready to concede and conciliate wherever it could be done without the violation of a principle. We are bold enough to think, that we hare demonstrated the fact, that a system of national education is practicable; to give to all the best possible secular education, a morality which may guard against the dram shop, and keep out of gaol, without interfering with each being well instructed in their own peculiar religious dogmas, and all proving, that they are Christians by their love to one another. The examinations have proved how well the religious instruction has in the mean time been completed, I believe there is not a school in Liverpool where there is the same quantity of sound religious instruction and knowledge. Although yon do not mention it in your letter, I may as well, even at the risk of being tedious, refer to the cry especially raised against us, viz., that the Bible was excluded the schools. It is true, that the Catholics are not compelled to read or hear read the authorised version of the scriptures, but are furnished with the Douay version; but to the Protestants, the authorised version is read; they are taught to read it, and have been from the first day the schools came into our hands. I may repeat, that they are not merely taught to read, but to understand what they read, and to apply its glorious precepts and principles to the daily duties of life. If at any time you should be going through Liverpool, and bad an hour to give to the object, on knowing, that you were here, I should hare great pleasure in waiting upon and showing you our schools; every one is admitted to see them even without introduction, on writing their names in a
 780 "To R. L. Sheil, Esq." 781 782 l. 783 784 "Without unspotted, innocent within, She feared no danger, for she knew no sin." 785 786
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that after the full discussion of the question which had taken place, and after the various arguments which had been put forward with so much force and effect by hon. Members at that side of the House, and which were still unanswered, he should not feel it necessary, even if he had the ability, to occupy the time of the House for a long period. But he could not hear the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, without offering one or two observations upon it. When the noble Lord first brought forward his proposition, he gave the House to understand what his intentions were as to the mode of proceeding he would adopt. In the course of the speech which the noble Lord delivered upon that occasion, he stated that it was his intention to proceed by bill, and that he intended to bring in a bill to carry into effect a system of national education. He could not be mistaken upon this, for in those channels of information which vended the proceedings of the House, the noble Lord was represented as expressing himself to this effect, and the statement that such was his intention appeared in more than one speech of the noble Lord. When the noble Lord was asked by his right hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford, to explain the course he intended to take, he then stated that he intended to proceed by bill. It appeared, however, that the noble Lord had since seen reason to change his course, and to abandon that line of proceeding which he had originally intended to pursue. Whatever were the reasons that had satisfied the
 773 774 l. 775 776 777
 Lord Mahon  said, he felt it his duty to meet the motion of the noble Lord with a direct negative; and, in so doing, he should scarcely have thought it necessary, but for the observations that had fallen from the noble Lord, to explain that his objection, and the objection of hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House, was not to a grant for purposes of education, if it were conducted on proper principles. He should have thought it unnecessary to offer such an explanation as to his own views, or to the views of other Members on his side of the House, in resisting this vote, but for the remarks of the noble Lord; for he could not have conceived it possible that those views could have been so utterly misunderstood, or so unjustly misrepresented, as they had been by the noble Lord, in the course of his speech. Would the noble Lord put them to the proof? Would he consent to move the same vote as had last year been taken, to be distributed on the same principles as formerly, or for even a much larger sum, if its application were to depend upon the rules which had governed its application last year? He called on the noble Lord to put them to that proof, and not to forget what had been explicitly stated by the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire—that the main objection was not to the transfer of the control over the Parliamentary grant from the Treasury to the Committee of Privy Council, but that the objection was to the alteration of the prin-
 737 l. 738 739 740 l. l. 741 O'Connell: 742 "There is a superintending board of education in the Roman states, is there not?"—Answer. "There is the congregation, as it is called, appointed to superintend the system of education throughout the states." "Are there any laymen upon that?"—Answer. "The congregation is composed entirely of ecclesiastics." "Must the schoolmaster necessarily be a clergyman?"—Answer. "I am not aware of any law requiring it, but I do not think I know of any instance to the contrary in rural schools."—"By whom are the schools for females generally conducted?"—Answer. "In every village there are generally two matrons, supplied by a sort of semi-religious order in Rome, called the Maestre Pie, who have a house in Rome from which they are sent out to the respective villages." 743 "Are the Protestants and Catholics educated entirely together; is the religious instruction given together with intellectual?" "It is rather uncommon to find in Switzerland a district which is not principally occupied by the partisans of one or the other of the great religious sects. In general there are Catholic villages and Protestant villages, and from that natural sympathy which exists between individuals of the same religious opinion, there is a tendency among strangers to settle among those whose religious opinions are the same as their own." "As to the Roman Catholics and the Protestants, the practical point would be how religious instruction is managed in those schools where Catholic and Protestant come together. One of your recent answers rather tended to show, that such cases were not common, because whole villages are mostly of the same persuasion; but if there are cases in which they do not intermix, how is the point of religious instruction managed?" 744 "I confess it is a question I never asked, because I am in the habit of dissociating inquiries of this sort from any investigation into religious opinions. I have looked through the law of public instruction of the canton of Thurgovia, which I have now before me, and I do not see, from beginning to end, any reference to the religious opinions either of children or parents." "Parents who are prevented by the great distance of their residence, or by the inaccessible state of the roads, from sending their children into the school of that religious persuasion to which their place of abode is ascribed, may receive from the commissioners of education the permission of sending their children to a school nearer to their residence, if belonging to the other religious persuasion; in granting that permission, the commissioners are to take care the school be not overcrowded." 745 746 "——Arcemque tenebant Defensi tenebris et dono noctis opacæ." 747 748 "Contrariwise, certain Laodiceans and lukewarm persons think they may accommodate points of religion by middle ways, and taking part of both, and witty reconcilements, as if they would make an arbitrement between God and man … … There are also two false peaces or unities—the one when the peace is grounded but upon an implicit ignorance, for all colours will agree in the dark; the other when it is pieced up upon a direct admission of contraries in fundamental points. For truth and falsehood in such things are like the iron and clay in the toes of Nebuchadnezzar's image, they may cleave, but they will not incorporate."
 Mr. Aglionby thought that the arguments of the hon. Member for Bridport had not been met by those who had opposed the motion. Those arguments were unanswered and unanswerable. He regretted much that the parties had been indicted at all, and that the whole case had not been in the first instance brought before that House. In a court of justice the accused themselves could not be examined, but before a committee of that House they would be asked who had set them on to commit the outrages, and who had paid them. Such an inquiry could not fairly be expected to be gone into before an election committee, where the expense fell upon Members themselves or candidates. A Member would be a madman who entered on such an inquiry before an election committee. The inquiry was one intimately connected with the public welfare, and ought, therefore, to be carried on at the public expense. The practices which this petition brought to light would, he hoped, contribute to convince the House, as they had helped to convince him, of the necessity of the ballot as a protection to the voter. He was for having every case of corruption and intimidation brought before the House, and exposed, that the necessity for the ballot, as a protection, might be demonstrated. He hoped that the motion would be carried, as an evidence of the necessity which existed for some safeguard of the interests of the public.
 Mr. Labouchere* said, that whatever difference of opinion might be entertained on this subject, or on the general principle involved in the resolutions proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, or in any of those various details by which his hon. Friend proposed to carry those resolutions into effect, he was quite sure that it was the unanimous opinion of the House, that no greater or more important subject, no question more truly deserving the serious attention of the Parliament, could possibly be brought under their consideration; he agreed with his hon. Friend, that as it was the duty at all times of the Government of this country, and of the colonies, to encourage emigration, by every fair and legitimate means, it was a duty still more incumbent upon them on many accounts at the present time. During the short period of time which he had had the honour to be connected with the Colonial Office, it was impossible for him not to have been forcibly struck with the circumstances that had been adverted to, that not only on the part of the labouring classes of this country, but also on the part of a class of persons who had hitherto shown a reluctance to leave their native country, many persons in the higher conditions of life, and possessed of small capital, had shown a most remarkable desire at the present moment to seek in other colonies, and in the distant possessions of the British empire, the means of acquiring an honest independence, which was not so readily afforded in the mother country. He agreed in the sentiment of his hon. Friend, and so far from this being a matter of reproach to those persons, and so far from those persons being discouraged, it reflected the highest honour upon them; and he rejoiced in thinking, that in leaving this country they did not estrange themselves from its real and permanent interests, but on the contrary, they proved their attachment to those interests by trusting themselves to those distant possessions to which
 * 889 890 "Revocare gradum superasque evadere ad auras Hic labor, hoc opus est." 891 892 l 893 l l l l l l l l 894 l l.; l.; l.; l.; l l 895
 Mr. S. O'Brien said, the noble Lord had said that there was great difficulty in obtaining 10,000 emigrants to send to Australia. He could only say, that in the district of Ireland with which he was connected, he believed that there would be no difficulty in annually obtaining that number of emigrants. In the West of Ireland, the people were nearly all in a state of starvation for want of employment, and they had no means of emigrating.
 Mr. C. Buller would occupy but a few moments of the time of the House in answering one or two matters which, among the Duke of York's debt, and other subjects, had been introduced into that debate. The noble Lord had prolonged the debate by thinking that he had convicted him (Mr. C. Buller) of an inaccuracy in a debate which occurred three months ago. He had then told the noble Lord that the road from Quebec to New Brunswick was occasionally impassable. He had used the word "now," and he should have said "in the spring;" for in the spring, at the breaking up of the winter, it was utterly impassable. He had mistaken the time of the year. And now, having corrected his knowledge of the seasons, he asserted that no mail could pass from Quebec to New Brunswick at the season when the roads were impassable, and if the noble Lord disputed that, he would join issue with him. The noble Lord had also said, that he had given himself the airs of a traveller. He had given himself no such airs; he had simply referred to an article in the constitution of the United States; and the noble Lord argued, that if this were correct, it was impossible to have local taxation in Australia, for it was found im-
 916
 Mr. Lucas hoped that an effect would be produced in the country respecting this subject commensurate with its magnitude and importance, for he did not think that the hon. Member who had brought forward the motion had in any degree exaggerated the importance of the subject. The hon. Member had spoken of the distress that prevailed, and though he (Mr. Lucas) did not agree with him either as to the causes or the extent of that distress, yet it fully justified him in bringing forward his motion in the manner in which he had done. If distress prevailed to a great extent in Liverpool and Manchester, they would recollect that it had been stated that in Liverpool there were 70,000, and in Manchester and Salford 90,000 of the poorer classes of his countrymen partakers of that distress, and no doubt active competitors for the reduced and inadequate wages which the English labourer received. He thought that, with respect to Ireland, the subject of emigration was of considerable importance. With respect to the full scope of the entire of the hon. Member's resolutions he was not prepared to go along with him, but in the first resolution he entirely concurred. He thought that a great deal of what the hon. Member urged was entitled to great attention, in contending that a portion of the land revenue ought to be applied to the purposes of emigration. With respect to the general question of emigration this was not the time to discuss it; but he thought it
 898
 Mr. Shaw suggested, that an inquiry should take place on the coast of Australia, with the view of applying steam commu-
 917
 Mr. Darby said, that as much emigration was going on from Sussex, he wished to state his objections to these resolutions, In the speech of the noble Lord he fully agreed; and he objected to the resolution, because the first was a mere truth, and the second declared that the land should be fixed at an uniform price; and how was it possible that this could be a fair price? Either the good land would be sold for too little money, or the price of the inferior land would be too high. Again, how could they determine that a fixed proportion should go for passage money? But if the expense were fluctuating expense for the survey of the land, how could they put by a fixed proportion of the money produced by the sale of the land for passage money? Then, again, as to the next resolution, it was declared that, "in order to derive the greatest possible advantage from this method of colonization, it was essential that the permanence of the system should be secured by the Legislature, and that its administration should be intrusted to a distinct subordinate branch of the colonial department." What he understood the hon. Gentleman to wish was, that the colonial branch of the administration for this purpose should be fixed, and not fluctuating; but he (Mr. Darby) could see nothing in this resolution that would make this part of the Colonial-office fixed, and that it should not fluctuate as well as any other. The hon. Member also said, that this principle "should extend to all the colonies which were suited to its operation," but who were to judge of the colonies to which its operations should be suitable?
 Mr. G. W. Hope trusted to be able, in a very few words, to show the House, that this motion ought never to have been brought forward, and that it ought not to be acceded to. The hon. Member for Wigan had divided his cases of alleged outrage into three classes. He would endeavour to take each class separately, and dispose of it. First, however, he would advert to that case which stood third on the list in the petition, and which seemed by the parties concerned to have been looked upon as of peculiar importance, from the singular circumstance that the individuals charged with the offences there stated had been prosecuted for them, brought to trial, and — acquitted. The case he referred to was that of William Riley, which
 831 "That, among the rest, John Riley, of Wigan, beerseller, a voter who had signed the requisition to the said William Ewart, and had promised him his vote, was, on the evening of Thursday, the seventh day of March, invited to the Eagle and Child Inn, where the said John Hodson Kearsley's committee and friends assembled. That when the said John Riley arrived opposite to the Eagle and Child Inn, he was forcibly dragged into the house, and there held down upon a chair by one man, while another held his arms, a third held up his head, and a fourth poured some liquid down his throat, which produced almost instantaneous stupor. That in that state the said John Riley was forced into a chaise, taken down to Liverpool to a public house in St. Vincent-street, kept by a man named Peter Stubbs, and there deprived of his hat and shoes, and confined up stairs, and not allowed to go out, even for the purpose of relieving; nature, until after the close of the poll on Saturday afternoon, when the parties by whom he had been taken to Liverpool brought him back to Wigan in a chaise, and set him down in one of the streets in Wigan about midnight. That whilst at Liverpool, in a state of unconsciousness, the said John Riley had spirits and narcotics administered, and was from time to time struck on the top of his head, and thrown upon the ground, and fallen upon by some of the men who took him down. That, owing to the liquids administered to him, the said John Riley remained in a state of unconsciousness from the Thursday night until the Saturday morning, and has since suffered much pain, both internally and externally, from the treatment he then received. That when restored to consciousness, the said John Riley repeatedly demanded, both of the landlord and the parties who had taken him to Liverpool, to be set at liberty, in order that he might return to Wigan; but, under various pretences, they refused to liberate him. That James Riley, of Wigan, retailer of beer, after being treated at the Shovel and Broom public-house, by voters in the interest of the said John Hodson Kearsley, was invited to go to the Eagle and Child, under the pretence that a person of the name of Nightingale, a Chartist, from Manchester, who was proposed as a candidate, wanted to see him. That the said James Riley went to the Eagle and Child, and on his arrival was forced into the same chaise with the said John Riley, and taken with him to Liverpool, and with him deprived of shoes and hat, confined until Saturday afternoon, and then brought back to Wigan at midnight. That the said James Riley resisted violently, broke the chaise windows, and threatened to stab the men unless they let him go, on which a voter and active partisan of Mr. Kearsley's, and actively engaged in forcing both John and James Riley into the chaise, with a knife inflicted a wound on the said James Riley." 832 "That William Blomerley, of Wigan, manufacturer and shopkeeper, a requisitionist and voter in favour of Mr. Ewart, was, about six o'clock of the morning of the day of polling, violently seized in the open street by a number of people, forced into a public-house in Wigan-lane, called the Bowling green (where a large party of Mr. Kearsley's partisans were then assembled), confined in a room there until a post-chaise arrived, into which the said William Blomerley was forced, and taken to the Ridgway Arms public-house in Adlington, distant seven or eight miles from Wigan, and there confined until he was rescued. That there were three men in the chaise who guarded the said William Blomerley to Adlington, and after-wards acted as guards over him when confined in the Ridgway Arms public house, and frequently treated the said William Blomerley with great harshness and violence. That the said William Blomerley remonstrated strongly, and resisted violently throughout the whole proceeding, and broke the chaise windows in the attempt to make himself known and heard; and, during his confinement at Adlington, broke the windows of the room he was confined in, and remonstrated frequently with the landlord, James Fowler, and demanded his liberty, but without effect; and the said James Fowler had in attendance a number of delfmen in his employ, with weapons, for the purpose of resisting, as he said, any attempt that might be made to rescue Blomerley. That the first person who went and demanded the liberation of Blomerley was Alex. Thompson, who was threatened with violence unless he went away. Thompson then left the house, and soon afterwards returned with three others, but the doors were closed; they were refused admittance; and the people about the house began to close the window shutters. That the party again left the house, and having met Blomerley's wife and several others, they returned with them, when Mrs. Blomerley demanded to see her husband, but was refused by James Fowler, the landlord. That some of the party then came to Wigan for assistance, and returned with two police officers and about fourteen assistants in an omnibus, when Mrs.
 833 834 "Entered the house of James Dobb, and while he was in bed, and notwithstanding the resistance of his wife and some whom she called upon to aid her, some forced their way up stairs, and some sat down in the house and began to smoke." 835
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that the Government had come to the determination of taking steps which would probably lead to the establishment of a colony in that country; but as those measures were still under consideration, he trusted the hon. Baronet would excuse him from entering further into them. A number of persons had gone out to New Zealand, and in order to protect the aborigines, and for the maintenance of good order among the inhabitants, it was thought fit that measures should be taken to establish law and peace. With regard to the New Zealand Land Companies, he need hardly assure the hon. Gentleman that these companies could not have been recognized by the Government. They had sent expeditions from this country upon their own responsibility, and without any sanction from the Government; but he was bound to a y, with an explicit declaration, that in any future step which the Government might take in reference to New Zealand, they would not consider themselves bound to recognise any title to land set up which might
 829
 Mr. Warburton denied, that because there had been a criminal prosecution the House was to be precluded from entering further into the question. There might not be enough evidence to criminate a person in a court of justice, and yet quite enough to induce the House to interfere and put a stop to the practices of which they were accused. It should not be forgotten, that the object of this motion was not to criminate individuals; but to draw the attention of the House to practices that were prevalent, in order that they might interfere and put a stop to them. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had also urged, that full opportunity for an investigation of the alleged outrages had been afforded before the select committee,
 836 primâfacie
 Mr. Warburton hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, would not rest satisfied with the mere assurance of the Government that this matter would receive from them due consideration. The question stood ripe for the decision of the Government upon it. What was asked for by the present motion was this: that certain fixed principles should be laid down, on which the Government, in all future sales of colonial land, and in the application of the produce of those sales, should be bound to act: that the Colonial Office should be deprived of that discretion which it now did, or might in future, exercise according to its will and pleasure, of acting or declining to act upon those principles. The Government understood those principles; for they had already acted upon them, to a limited extent, in New South Wales, and in the new colony of South Australia; and by these two experiments which had been eminently successful, the practical importance to this country of an adherence to these principles had been fully ascertained. Why then delay passing an act which should be a rule for the guidance in time to come of the Colonial Office. In the place of such a rule what had they now to depend upon but the capricious exercise of the prerogative; and with what utter disregard to the interests of the colonies that prerogative was exercised, an example was afforded in the case of Nova Scotia. What could be thought of the attention paid by the mother country to the interests of that colony, when, in order to pay a gambling debt of the Duke of York, all the mines and minerals of Nova Scotia were at one fell swoop granted away to that royal Duke? The grant was sold to a London silversmith, to whom these important rights were thus transferred in perpetuity. The important coal-mines of that colony, situated like those of our own country, near the sea coast, on the proper working
 896 897
 Mr. Wilson Patten said, that the hon. Member for Wigan must be aware that the accusations of violence were not confined to one side in that borough, but that both parties were implicated.
 Mr. Brotherton complained of the existence of similar practices in other boroughs in Lancashire, and stated that the House ought to take effectual steps to put a stop to the system. He should support the motion of his hon. Friend, in the hope that the result would be the carrying some legislative enactment on the subject.
 Mr. Ewart rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the allegations contained in the Wigan petition (presented by him on the 10th of June) complaining of the abduction and violence practised towards the voters at the last Wigan election. When a candidate went down to a borough with which he was previously unacquainted, upon an invitation from a large body, and when he had obtained the promises of a majority, but the voters were carried off, and so prevented from exercising their own free-will, surely the House would consider it as a more aggravated case than even corruption; it was an attack upon the Constitution of the country. The House punished corruption. The case he had to detail was, in his opinion, of a much more aggravated character, and called imperatively for the intercession of the House. But those cases were not of such an aggravated nature as the present, because, in those cases, the parties had acted under the excited feelings of the moment; but, in this case, the abduction had been premeditated many days before the intended election, and these persons had been kept away until the final close of the poll. The persons guilty of this outrage had done him the honour to select voters who had signed the requisition to him; they had not attempted to carry off any of those whose opinions might be deemed doubtful, but those had been fixed upon who, having signed the requisition, might be considered as bound to vote for him. There was another circumstance of aggravation — those who had been carried off were poor men who had not the power, the wealth, or the influence, to defend themselves. He, therefore, trusted the House would be more earnest in the defence of them, than of those whose station gave them the power
 830
 Mr. Ewart said, that he should persist in his motion, as he thought that it was the duty of the House to investigate the subject, and prevent the recurrence of such proceedings.
 Mr. Ward : * * 842 843 844 "When a man's whole faculties are strained to the utmost, from sunrise to sunset, to procure a miserable subsistence, he has neither leisure, aptitude, nor desire for information. He is assimilated to the beasts of burthen, and gradually partakes of their animalism, for in the degree in which extreme privation bars out civilization and refinement, is scope given to each brutalising impulse and passion." "That there is a total decay of reading amongst them—that there is little scope for the exercise of prudence—and that religion has lost its influence,—as their only care and
 845 846 847 848 849 850 "In order to prevent this, (the indisposition of the apprentices to work for hire) it will be necessary to prevent the occupation of any Crown lands by persons not possessing a pro.
 851 852 
 
 Dollars. 
 In 1796, the proceeds were only 4,836 
 In 1811 1,040,237 
 1819 3,274,422 
 1835 11,000,000 
 1836 24,000,000 moral 853 l s. d. 854 855 "It was thus virtually enacted by the Secretary of State for the Colonies, that a large portion of that revenue, which had been so unexpectedly, and beneficently, created, as if by the immediate interposition of the providence of God, for the counteraction of the enormous moral evils that had resulted from the past mismanagement of the transportation system in Australia, and for ensuring the moral welfare of these Colonies in all time to come, through the importation of virtuous, and industrious, free emigrant families from the mother country, and to the exclusive application of which to that object the inhabitants of New South Wales were looking with intense anxiety, should be applied towards the perpetual maintenance of the Colony as a mere gaol, and dunghill, for the British Empire." 856 s. s., 
 
 Acres. £. 
 In 1832  we sold 20,860 for 6,513 
 1833 29,001 12,528 
 1834 91,399 28,589 
 1835 271,945 87,097 
 1836 105,464 
 £240,091 l 857 858 l 859 
 
 Acres. Amount. 
 60,643 at 12 s. £36,404 
 88,095 at 20 s. 88,095 
 148,738 £124,499 860 l l l l s. l l l s. l l South Australian 861 
 
 1837. 1838. 
 August £480 £4,640 
 September 160 2,960 
 October 480 2,640 
 November 560 1,760 
 December 480 11,400 862 "In the report on emigration, to which I have alluded before, I find favourable mention of the principle of intrusting some parts of the conduct of emigration rather to 'charitable committees' than to an ordinary department of Government. From this doctrine I feel bound to express my entire dissent. I can scarcely imagine any obligation which it is more incumbent on Government to fulfil, than that of guarding against an improper selection of emigrants, and securing to poor persons disposed to emigrate every possible facility and assistance, from the moment of their intending to leave this country to that of their comfortable establishment in the colony. No less an obligation is incurred by the Government, when, as is now the case, they invite poor persons to emigrate by tens of thousands every year. It would, indeed, be very mischievous if the Government were to deprive
 863 864 l. 865 866 l 867 l l l l l l l 
 
 In 1827. 1836. 
 To Prussia 174,338 l 160,782 l 
 Germany 4,654,618 4,463,729 
 Portugal 1,400,044 1,085,934 
 Mexico & Colombia 906,772 439,994 l l l l 
 
 In 1827. 1836. 
 New South Wales & 
 Van Diemen's Land 449,892 l — 1,180,564 l 
 Cape of Good Hope 216,558 — 482,315 
 Algoa Bay alone 55,201 in 1834 236,000, l l l l.; l l.; 868 
 1. That the occupation, and cultivation, of waste lands in the British colonies, by means of emigration, tend to improve the condition
 869 2. That the prosperity of colonies, and the progress of colonization, mainly depend upon the manner in which a right of private property in the waste lands of a colony may be acquired; and that, amidst the great variety of methods of disposing of waste lands which have been pursued by the British Government, the most effectual, beyond all comparison, is the plan of sale, at a fixed, uniform, and "sufficient" price, for ready money, without any other condition or restriction; and the employment of the whole, or a large fixed proportion, of the purchase-money, in affording a passage to the colony, cost free, to young persons of the labouring class, in an equal proportion of the sexes. 3. That in order to derive the greatest possible advantage from this method of colonizing, it is essential that the permanence of the system should be secured by the Legislature, and that its administration should be intrusted to a distinct subordinate branch of the Colonial Department, authorised to sell colonial lands in this country; to anticipate the sales of land by raising loans for emigration, on the security of future land sales, and generally to superintend the arrangements by which the comfort and well-being of the emigrants are to be secured. 4. That this method of colonizing has been applied by the Legislature to the new colony of South Australia with very remarkable and gratifying results, and that it is expedient that Parliament should extend the South Australian system to all other colonies which are suited to its operation.
 Mr. Ward said in reply, I was aware, Sir, that, in bringing forward the motion,
 918 lapsus linguœ 919
 Sir R. H. Inglis observed, that the right hon. the Under-Secretary for the Colonies had talked of clothing distant parts of the world with the laws, habits, and institutions of England, and had forcibly pointed out many of the ties which bound together England and her dependencies; but the right hon. Gentleman had omitted two, which, in his estimation, were most worthy the consideration of the Legislature of this country, because they were the only permanent bonds which could unite the colonies with the mother country. Those two bonds were the language and the religion of Great Britain, wanting which, all efforts to preserve the union would be unsuccessful. This principle was applicable not only to Australia and the West Indies, but to every dependency of the British empire. It was applicable not only to those parts
 914 915
 Sir R. Inglis  wished to put two questions to the Under Secretary for the Colonies, relative to New Zealand. He wished to know what were the intentions of her Majesty's Government, relative to the colony of New Zealand generally, and also with respect to the New Zealand Company.
 Sir Robert Peel could not help adverting to the immense extent of inquiry they would be engaged in if they consented to the motion of the hon. Member. In this case there had been inquiry before an election committee, and also before a court of law; and if the House granted the motion under such circumstances, they could never refuse to grant similar motions and applications for inquiry, when there had been no previous inquiry. He presumed this inquiry was to be conducted at the public expense; and if it turned out to be frivolous, what remedy or redress would there be against the party making the complaint? Much of the complaint in the present case appeared to be frivolous above all, the case of James Dobb, when inquiry was called for on the ground, that a number of persons forced their way into his house and smoked tobacco. The petition stated, that James Dobb, of Wigan, mordaunt manufacturer, was a voter who polled for Mr. Ewart,
 "That between five and six o'clock on the morning of the day of polling, about twenty of Mr. Kearsley's partisans went to the house of the said James Dobb, whilst he was in bed, and, notwithstanding the resistance of his wife and persons she requested to aid her, some of
 839
 Mr. Williams Wynn had observed the present motion with surprise, having expected, that the hon. Member would have pointed out some distinct object to be attained by or to result from the inquiry. The hon. Member alleged, that the privileges of that House had been violated, and the freedom of election violated. Unquestionably that would afford good ground for inquiry, if with a view to the punishment of those who had been guilty of such offences; but it appeared, that in the present instance, the individuals had been brought to trial and acquitted. The hon. Member for Bridport had suggested another object to be attained by the inquiry—prevention of the recurrence of such offences. If they were offences that could not be punished by the law before the ordinary tribunals, the subject would be well worthy the attention of the House; but the fact was, that there was not one of the offences charged that was not cognizable by the common law. Some of the offences were made assaults; and others were in effect conspiracies to prevent the voters from going to the poll; but all were such cases, as, if moved before a court of justice, would be visited with adequate punishment. If the charges in this petition had been proved before the election committee, it would have been the duty of that committee to have reported them to the House, and the House would have ordered a prosecution. But that course not having been pursued, what was there to prevent the hon. Member or any other person from bringing those parties to trial at the very next assizes? He entertained very great objections to such inquiries being carried on before committees, before whom the witnesses were not exa
 837
 Sir William Molesworth :  * * 870 871 872 873 l 874 l 875 l.; l l l l l.; l l 876 l l l 877 l l 878 879 880 881 882 883 884 885 s. l l l.; l.; l s. l l s. l l.; l 886 s. l l l 887 l 888
 Viscount Dungannon regretted to hear the hon. and learned Member argue in favour of the ballot from this motion. He was satisfied that if the ballot became the law of the land the evils he complained of would be increased
 838
 Viscount Howick hoped, that the discussion had on the Ballot a few evenings ago would not now be renewed. He begged most earnestly to impress upon the hon. Member for Wigan the expediency of not pressing the present motion. Although it had been most ably supported by the hon. Member for Bridport, and the hon. Member for Cockermouth, yet he must say, that they had failed to remove from his mind the plain and obvious objection to the appointment of this Committee—that it would be renewing an inquiry, already settled in a court of justice. It was urged, to be sure, that only one case out of the whole had been tried. But, in all probability, that case had been selected because it was supposed to afford the greatest prospect of a conviction—a prospect which would exist still less, perhaps, in any of the remaining cases. He hoped, under the circumstances, the hon. Member would withdraw his motion.
 Viscount Howick : * * 899 900 bonâ fide 901 902 903 904 905 906 907 908 909 910 911 912 913
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not prepared to oppose the measure at its present stage, and therefore he could not support the hon. Member for Kilkenny's amendment, by which the House would refuse to consider the bill. The arguments of his hon. Friend should rather have been directed against the second reading of the bill than against the bill in its present stage, and above all, after the understanding that was come to when it was last before the House. When the bill was read a second time, he then took the opportunity of stating, and he thought, with the approbation of many Members, that on going into committee he should endeavour to induce the House to assimilate and equalise as much as possible the laws respecting licensed victuallers and beer-shop keepers. If he failed in his attempt to do this, he would join with his hon. Friend in voting against the bill on the report or on the third reading. What was the state of public opinion on this subject? It appeared by the returns on the Table, that 77 petitions had been presented for the repeal of the Beer Act, and these were signed by 6,420 persons; against the repeal nine petitions had been presented, signed by 20,757 persons. But for carrying into effect the principles for which he contended, namely, for equalising the law between the licensed victuallers and beer-shop keepers, he found that, independently of the numerous petitions presented that evening, petitions had been presented
 977 l. l. l. l. l. Dungannon l. l. 978 l. l. l. l. 979 l. l. l. 980 981
 Captain Wood  said, he thought it right to state, that in the London district, while the licensed victuallers were 4,300, the beer-shops were only 1,560; so that the convictions were two to one, and the numbers as three to one.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it would be most convenient if the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool would bring forward his amendment on the first clause.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought it would be better that the question should
 986
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was glad the twelve month's previous residence was abandoned. He thought, however, the other provision equally unreasonable. The result of adopting it would be that 15,518 beer-houses, which at present were rated under 10 l. l. l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had taken that course which he considered fairest. He had given full notice of the clauses he meant to propose, and had them printed. The question was as to the 10 l. 988 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assured the House that he had brought forward his amendments in perfect good faith, and not with a view to lead to the abandonment of all legislation on the subject: if such had been his intention, he should have opposed this bill on its second reading. But after the decision the Committee had come to, what course was now to be pursued? He would not call upon the Committee now to discuss the clauses he had to propose, but would suggest that those clauses should be brought up and agreed to  pro formâ 990
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  opposed the clause, on the ground that it would open the door to endless frauds. The beer-shop keepers would evade the law by allowing the beer to be drunk in their gardens or their neighbours' houses, and the whole country would be one scene of litigation.
 Lord Ingestrie  said, the bill was one which called for a distinct expression of opinion on the part of her Majesty's Government. Hon. Members on his side did not object to any person voting in the same borough, though he had removed from one tenement to another; but what they did object to was, that a man should have a vote for the borough when he went to another part of the country. He thought this was quite contrary to the principle of the Reform Act. He thought too that the measure would have exhibited to better advantage the good taste of its author if it had come from the other side of the House. The hon. Member who was the author of it seemed to be fitly called a Conservative-Radical. For his part he thought this bill trenched upon the principle of the Reform Act, and he would oppose its further progress, though he had always considered the Reform Act as fraught with danger to the country, an opinion which time had given him no reason to alter.
 The Solicitor-General  thought that this bill was the most practical bill that ever had been introduced into the House, because it was directed against an evil pressing equally on both sides of the House, and which all the constituencies in the country must wish to see removed. But the hon. Member for Stamford said, that this bill was inconsistent with the Registration (Scotland) Bill. Now, there was no analogy between the two cases. In Scotland the registration was not renewed annually. As to the objection that this measure might bring in a great number of out-voters, he was really astonished to hear it urged gravely. He did not believe that it would make more out-voters than there were at present. There were now at every election a great number of out-voters absent. The objection that under the bill a certain number of electors remaining on the registry would for the current year—for it was only for that time—have a vote who by the Reform Act were not entitled, was too minute to require notice.
 Lord Worsley  said, as a county magistrate, he felt bound to make a few observations. He certainly did not attribute the increase of crime to the beer-shops exclusively. But the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated, that crime had decreased. Now, that might be the case in large towns, but, in the country, he was afraid that the efficiency of the town police had but tended to drive bad characters into the rural districts. Certainly he much doubted if crime had really diminished so much as 45 per cent. At all events, that was not the case in his own county, where the depredations upon the farmers had greatly increased. The farmers, indeed, generally complained most grievously of the existing law, stating that their servants had thereby great facilities for drinking, and that their conduct had, since the passing of that law, become much worse. Of one thing he was convinced, that the state of the country would never become thoroughly improved until an efficient paid constabulary was established. He hoped the bill would be allowed to go into committee, though he was by no means so sanguine as to benefits to be expected from it, yet he felt that some alteration in the law was imperatively called for.
 Lord Eliot  could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer in taking property as a test of respectability, which was the same principle as that adopted by a witness once, who defined a respectable man to be one who kept a gig. The whole of the right hon. Gentleman's address had been a panegyric on beer-shops; but the magistrates with whom he had communicated in different parts of the country had taken a very different view of the subject. But he admitted that a great part of the evil might be attributed to the inefficient control over the beer-shops. With a rural police, a great many of the evils might be remedied. He should vote for going into committee, but he did not think the bill of his hon. Friend best calculated to effect the object he had in view. He was opposed to the principle of making property the test of respectability.
 Lord J. Russell  said, the point to which the right hon. Baronet had called the attention of the House, was certainly one in which an improvement might be made, and he would consult his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-general, as to what could be done with respect to it. This subject was one of the largest, the most important, and he would add, one of the most difficult questions which could be brought forward; and he was glad to hear the opinion upon it of the right hon. and learned Member for Ripon, who, besides his general knowledge, had gone practically into it by having attended, at his request, on the commission on trust charities. It was very difficult to say in what authority the power of dealing with those trusts ought to be placed, and how far the will of the original founders, in conformity with the changes which by time had taken place, and the opinions of the present day, might be departed from. He could not, however, but think, that in the present day there might be most beneficial departures from the wills of original founders, and he could not, like the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, follow literally those intentions: if so, what would become of the gifts, the large sums of money and extent of lands given to the University of Oxford, with express directions that masses should be said for the souls of the donors and founders.
 Lord John Russell  did not agree with the right hon. Gentleman that the Registration Bill had greatly disappointed the public. The disappointment could not have been greater than might naturally have been expected, especially when it was recollected how exceedingly defective the old system was. Even though baptism may have been duly registered in their respective localities, the returns were not sent to the diocese, or to any other fit place, to be enrolled. In attempting the
 1002 1003
 Lord John Russell  moved, that the report on the Registers of Births Bill be brought up.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he wished to hear from the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) whether he intended to take the sense of the House upon the Report of the Committee of Supply in regard to the education vote.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he had had a good deal of conversation with the Lord Chancellor on the subject; and it would be remembered that in the course of last year a bill was brought in by Lord Brougham, who had turned his attention to the subject. It certainly deserved consideration, and the attention of the Lord Chancellor would naturally be directed to it, with a view to some measure.
 Lord J. Russell  having given notice of his intention to move for leave to bring in a bill to continue for another year the Ecclesiastical Appointments Suspension Bill, said, he was aware that with respect to the Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill there were many reasons why it was desirable that the measure should not be pressed at so late a period of the Session. The Session was be far advanced that he knew there would be great difficulty in the other House of Parliament in obtaining such an attendance of the spiritual Peers as would secure a full and fair discussion of the bill. It had also been stated on respectable authority, that an impression existed in the minds of some hon. Members of that House, as well as in the public mind, that some modifications would be proposed in the measure, which were not yet prepared,
 964 965
 Lord J. Russell  would certainly take an early opportunity of stating what bills he intended to proceed with during the present Session, and what bills he proposed to abandon. There were several bills which had already been abandoned, and it would therefore be unnecessary to make any declaration with respect to them. In regard to the statements which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman, with respect to the Canada Bills, he was afraid some misapprehension might exist as to the intentions of the right hon. Gentleman if the matter were not cleared up. There were two bills which the Government had obtained leave to introduce with respect td Canada. There was one which, as he had already stated, it was not intended to proceed with in the present Session, but there was also another, with respect to the powers which had been conferred by Act of- Parliament, upon the Governor and Special
 967
 Mr. C. Buller  thought the House was much indebted to the hon. Baronet for calling the attention of the House to funds which might suffice, if properly applied, for the education of the whole population of England, but which were now totally misapplied. He would state one fact as a specimen of their misapplication. A gentleman, who had been engaged in the duties of the Charity Commission, had informed him that in going over three parishes of Lincolnshire he found that what were called general charities were frittered away by giving away shillings and halfcrowns out of their respective funds, which, so far from being beneficial to the poor, only served to keep up a kind of pauperism among them. Now, the whole expense of education in those parishes might be defrayed out of the funds of those charities. If the Government really had at heart the education of the people of England, this was one of the first subjects to which they should direct their attention.
 The Speaker  said, that no hon. Member was at liberty to refer to the proceedings of any election committee before it had reported to the House.
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought the bill extremely objectionable. It appeared to him to be merely a bill to bring in parties who had no qualification, to vote with those who had a qualification, and he should certainly oppose it. He seconded the amendment.
 Mr. Cayley  recommended the hon. Member for Droitwich to leave the measure in the hands of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. A. Sanford  thought the vast number of petitions which had been presented from all classes praying for an alteration in the present Beer Act afforded sufficient reason for the House taking the present bill into its consideration. He must say, that those who had seen the working of the existing law were more competent to judge of it than those who formed their opinions from returns which were made to that House. That a superintendence by the magistrates had formerly been necessary, was shown by the legislation which had taken place so long ago as the year 1494, again in 1562, and again in 1787. In 1787 the Secretary of State issued a circular to the Magistrates cautioning them against the system that prevailed in issuing licences. He thought it absolutely necessary that some plan should be adopted for licensing these houses different from the present. All that was necessary now was to obtain the certificates of six householders of the neighbourhood; but if the excise officer by whom the licence was granted took care to ascertain that the person applying was a man of good character and respectability, much of the present evil would be done away with. He thought the measure would be one of very general utility, and he hoped there would be no objection to going into Committee on the bill.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that nothing was more improper on such an occasion as the present, than to bring forward statements which bore, in some degree, the character of accusations against individuals, which could not be denied nor proved. He hoped, that no scheme for the establishment of an education commission would be set on foot; he hoped, that no tribunal for educational purposes would be set up in this country. There was too much disposition to fritter away the ancient practices and establishments of the land. The hon. and learned Member for Liskeard would have the money belonging to general charities taken away and applied to the purposes of national educa-
 971
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman was the only course that could now be pursued.
 Mr. Goulburn  apprehended, that the noble Lord had construed into an opposition to the law the exhortations which the clergy had fell themselves called upon to issue to their flocks, to urge on them the necessity of baptism for their children.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, this was not a party question, and ought not to be discussed as such. However, the principle of the bill was entirely opposed to the principle of
 997
 Mr. Goulburn  was anxious to avail himself of the present occasion to make a few observations to the House. He had observed at the time that the bill passed, that it would afford facilities to clandestine and illegal marriages, and he was sorry to find that his anticipation had been fulfilled
 1000 1001
 Mr. Warburton  supported the bill. It was necessary, in order to prevent voters who might change their residence, between one registration and another, from being deprived of their right to vote. He feared, that if they adopted the limitation of the hon. Member who had just sat down they would open the door to all the litigation and expense which the bill was calculated to do away with.
 Mr. Warburton  thought the returns referred to by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, most
 982
 Mr. Parrott  said, he thought the Beer Act one of the best measures that had been adopted, and hon. Members who supported this bill, seemed to look rather at the few evils which were said to have arisen under the present system than at the many benefits it conferred on the labouring population.
 Mr. O. Gore  said, that the principle of representation, as he understood it, was this, that those who were sent to the House of Commons were sent by persons having an interest in the place for which they were sent as Members; but the interest ceased the moment that the individual left the place. He could not understand on what principle it could be asserted, that an individual who had gone to the extremity of the kingdom, after having parted with all right of property in Ipswich, or any other borough, should still retain the right of voting for that borough. It was not common sense. Again, suppose that such a man went away from a borough, his name still remained on the register, and for anything that the bill enacted, if no objection was made to him, he continued on the register, and continued to vote, and so might continue to vote  in infinitum,
 Mr. Brotherton  could state from experience, that in a borough constituency of 2,000, there would be 200 removals in twelve months, while very probably not more than ten of the 200 would quit the town. A person might be rated to a 10 l. l. l.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, in order to show the importance of this subject, he would mention that there was a grammar school in Manchester, the revenue of which was 6,000 l. 970
 Mr. Hume  said, that concurring in much of what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he should withdraw his amendment.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the House proceeding further with this bill. On its first introduction, the hon. Member who brought it forward (Mr. Pakington) had been asked to make out a case, in order to induce the House to after the existing law; but instead of making out the case, the hon. Member had been obliged to confess that the applications made to the House in favour of the proposed alteration had arisen in consequence of the circular the hon. Member had addressed to the different counties of England, calling the attention of the authorities there to the provisions of this bill, and urging them to petition. The hon. Member had urged in support of his bill the irregularities of which the keepers of beer-shops were constantly guilty; he stated that those irregularities were greater in the beer-shops than in the public-houses. Now, he had obtained returns which altogether refuted that allegation, and in fact showed that there was greater regularity in the conduct of the beer-shops than in that of the public-houses. The House had been told that robberies were concocted in the beer-houses, and that by those houses crime was encouraged. That argument would have held good if the hon. Member could have shown that before the passing of the Beer Act there had been no robberies or thefts, but when it could be proved that there were fewer robberies and thefts since beer-shops were established than before, the argument failed. Had the people who carried on the beer-shops showed themselves hostile to the law? If the hon. Member would look to the returns before the House, he would find that the beer-shop keepers were really the innocent parties, and that those whom he would befriend, the licensed victuallers, had been guilty of tenfold the crimes and offences of their competitors. The hon. Member had referred on a former occasion, to anonymous letters to support his views; but what was anonymous in-
 974 975
 Mr. Slaney  reminded the Committee, that a vast amount of property had been invested in the trade which was the subject of the bill. In the towns, the beer-shops had been in many cases productive of much good. He should prefer the rating between the two propositions, but, as that could not be obtained, he would recommend the adoption of the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Alston  mentioned the case of another school, at Willoughby, Lincolnshire, the master of which lived in a house rent free, his son was the usher, and the emoluments received were very great, while the public gained little or no advantage from the charity.
 Mr. Gibson  moved the Order of the Day for the third reading of the Electors' Removal Bill.
 Mr. Gibson  was very glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman say, that this was no party question, because he hoped that the noble Lord would take that remark as a gentle reproof for having said, that the author of the measure would have shown better taste had he sat on the other side of the House. Such a remark as that could only have been dictated by the spirit of party. As to the appellation of Conservative-Radical, he really did not know what it was; he could only say, that the party who supported him at his election for Ipswich had, through their leaders, most strongly requested him to bring forward this bill. The hon. Member for Worcestershire (Mr. O. Gore) had expressed a hope that the House would not stultify itself by passing this bill. Now, the hon. Member, as others did, spoke as if the bill were an entirely new measure. But, in fact, a similar bill was introduced a short time back, when, if he was not mistaken, the hon. Gentleman was a Member of the House, and he earnestly hoped, that he did not omit the opportunity of registering his vote in opposition to a measure to which he had just now so solemnly declared his objections. The House having entertained the former and similar bill, he hoped they would not stultify themselves by refusing to pass this bill.
 Mr. Blackstone  stated, that he had voted for the second reading of this bill. He had, however, a serious objection to the bill, since it admitted out-voters at borough elections. A person habitually resident on the continent might claim to vote under it. He had suggested, that a clause should be introduced into the bill to this effect—"Provided such person be a rated inhabitant of such town." If this clause were not introduced, he would vote against the third reading.
 Mr. W. T. Egerton  begged to state, that the hon. Member was somewhat in error. The funds of the school in question, according to the original design, were not intended for the benefit of Manchester alone, but for all England. The trustees had for many years been acting under a decree of a Master in Chancery, according to a scheme approved of by the Lord Chancellor. Two schools were opened, and in accordance with the design of the original testator, in one of them a classical education was given; and the other was open to the whole population of the country, as well as to that of Manchester. He believed the hon. Member was in Chancery at that moment against the trustees, and he thought it rather unfair, while the trustees were in that situation, he should come forward and make statements which were not consistent with the facts.
 Mr. Ewart  contended, that if they allowed the present system to continue much longer, the public would lose all confidence in the decisions of that House. He should give his cordial support to the bill.
 Mr. Ewart  hoped the House would not be led away by the eloquence of either of the hon. Members opposite to reject the bill.—[ Cries of "Oh!" 993
 Sir E. Knatchbull  was not quite sure, that the rates proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be successful, but he was anxious to allow a trial of the experiment. The whole responsibility ought to be thrown into the hands of the Government, and, if the experiment failed, the House could afterwards take the matter up.
 Sir G. Clerk  wished to make a few remarks on the bill, which he regarded as a measure of considerable importance. At any rate, it was deserving of some discussion, and the more so as it had hitherto passed to its very last stage without any discussion whatever; [ "No, no !" 995 996
 Captain Pechell  said, there might be some difference of opinion between the two hon. Gentlemen as to the manner in which the school they referred to was managed, but he thought every one must agree that the system pursued at another school, that at Great Berkhamstead, was most monstrous, for there a positive prohibition against receiving scholars was in force.
 The Attorney-General  said, the case was not, as supposed by the right hon. Gentleman, and he regretted exceedingly that in many instances the clergy had set themselves in direct opposition to the law. He wished the right hon. Gentleman would enlighten their minds on the subject, and make them understand that the law of the land must be obeyed. A case had come before him the other day, in which a clergyman had actually refused to marry a couple on the certificate of the superintendent registrar. Now, for such a disobedience to an Act of Parliament the clergyman was clearly liable to indictment. He had not advised that course to be pursued; he hoped it would not become necessary; but if the clergymen continued openly to defy the law, some measures must be taken for its enforcement.
 The Attorney-General  was of opinion, that if an Act of Parliament called upon a priest of the Church of Rome, or of the Church of England, or any other person, to do anything, that person was bound to obey the law. In the case alluded to, the clergyman was not only liable to ecclesiastical censure, as he would have been before the passing of this Act, but he had been guilty of an indictable offence.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot , in explanation, said, he did not wish to convert the funds of the grammar schools in the way the hon. Baronet seemed to suppose. The fact was, that in some instances the property which originally did not produce 50 l. l.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  wished not to enter into a discussion upon the subject, but to call the attention of the noble Lord to a subject intimately connected with it. The noble Lord was aware, from the report of the Charity Commissioners, that there was an immense fund applicable to the purpose of education which was almost wholly squandered away. There were grammar schools of extensive foundation in almost every town in England, which were perfectly useless and inoperative. In his own town there was a grammar school, of which he was a trustee, and in which there was a gentleman who had a house to live in, and emoluments amounting to 400 l. 969
 Mr. Pakington  said, he was not prepared for such a discussion upon the committee, which, he thought, would have better taken place upon the second reading. He must observe, that a great part of the speech of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was against a bill now before the House—a bill for entirely doing away with the beer-housse. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had said, that no case had been made out for the
 983 l. l. 984 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Pakington  was deeply impressed with the necessity for legislation respecting beer-shops, and having taken up the subject at an early part of the Session, and from the most disinterested motives, he could not abandon the measure which he had brought forward, at least till the House had by a division expressed its opinion. He could not consent to adopt the non-consumption clause which had been proposed by the noble Lord near him, neither could he agree to the scale of 5 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. M. Phillips  concurred in requesting his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, not to persist in opposing the bill going into committee. He regretted, that this bill, which had been introduced so long ago as the 7th March, should now be under discussion. He wished the subject had been referred to a select committee, which might have inquired into the different charges against both the beer-houses and licensed victuallers, and might have made a report, on which legislation would perhaps have been more satisfactorily founded than upon the discussions in that House. Upon one point he thought there could be no difference of judgment—that some legislation upon the subject was imperatively required. He hoped the hon.
 985
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, he for one should most decidedly object to any attempts to divert the funds in the possession of the grammar schools of the country from the objects and purposes for which they were originally given by the testators, or others bequeathed or gave them, and he trusted no motives of expediency would induce the House to interfere with or violate the right of every person to dispose of while living, or to bequeath after his death, his own property as he thought fit.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  observed, that if his noble Friend was prepared to bring in a bill to repeal an act brought in by a certain Lord Russell three centuries ago,
 973
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the Committee was placed in an extraordinary position by the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had brought in what he called clauses, a proceeding for which he believed there was no precedent. The bill of his hon. Friend consisted of a few clauses, and what his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had introduced under thebumblename of "clauses" was a bill three times as long as that of his bon. Friend, and it seemed rather unfair to his hon. Friend to take that course. He hoped his hon. Friend would not abandon his original determination.
 Sir Robert Inglis  wished to-know, if the learned Gentleman considered an Act of Parliament imperative on every priest to
 1004
 Sir R. Peel  said, it was hardly fair to enter further into this important question until some measure was brought forward. There was, however, one point connected with, grammar schools to which he wished to call the attention of the Attorney-general. There were many cases in which the
 972 l. l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had attended in
 968
 Sir R. Peel  was quite aware the noble Lord had introduced two bills relative to Canada, and he had distinctly understood that with respect to one of the bills it was the intention of the Government to proceed to effective legislation in the present Session. With respect, however, to the bill for effecting a union of the two provinces, he had understood the noble Lord to state, that it was not his intention to proceed to actual legislation in the present Session, and that he would only call upon the House to pronounce an opinion upon the principle of a union. His objection did not apply to the first of those bills, and his present impression was, that the principle of that bill would not be opposed, and that it would be allowed to be read a second time. Of course he would reserve himself as to the details of the measure, and he would not pledge himself, that some of the minor provisions of the bill would not be opposed. It was the second of the Canada bills which he objected to, not on account of the principle of the measure, but because he contended that it was neither wise nor politic to call upon the House to affirm the abstract principle of a union in the present Session, when they were not to proceed to actual legislation, till some after and indefinite period. That was the ground on which he should resist the bill for effecting a union of the two Canadian provinces.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he could not have a better opportunity than the present of suggesting that it would be very convenient if the noble Lord would, as he had done last year, announce, not then, but on an early day, what the bills were which the Government actually intended to proceed with in the present Session, and what the bills were which it was proposed to abandon. That was a course which had yearly been pursued for some time back, and he was sure it would tend greatly to facilitate the discussion of such measures as were to be proceeded with, if the Government would, as early as possible, make up their minds what bills were to be pressed forward in the present Session, and what bills were to be abandoned. The remarks he had offered were equally applicable to bills whether relating to England, Scotland, or Ireland. He also wished the noble Lord would state when he intended to proceed with the second reading of the Canada Bill, and with a view to the convenience of the House he should avail himself of that opportunity of stating, that when the noble Lord moved the order of the day for the consideration of that bill, he should feel it his duty to object to the second reading. He did not mean to contest the principle upon which the measure was founded, but he did mean to contest the propriety of Parliament deciding on the principle of a union of the two provinces in the present Session, if they were not to proceed to actual legislation when that principle had been affirmed. He was prepared, if Sir J. Colborne had forwarded all the information which could possibly be obtained, and if the noble Lord opposite told him distinctly that it was  bonâ fide 966
 Mr. Bagge  moved as an amendment, that the bill be read a third time that day three months, inasmuch as the proposed measure went to destroy the 10 l.
 Viscount Dungannon  said, that he had never listened to a more monstrous proposition than that of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, for stopping the progress of the bill. He would, however, give the House the returns for the Borough of Liverpool, which would show what the proportion was between the offences of the two classes of houses; in 1830–31 the number of convictions was—licensed victuallers 80, beerhouses 106; in 1831–32, licensed victuallers 82, beer-houses 81; in 1832–33, licensed victuallers 88, beer-houses 77;
 976
 Viscount Dungannon  considered the proposition embodied in this bill to be a perfectly monstrous one. The inconvenience of having out-voters was not to be permitted, and the expense of bringing up voters from a distance would be extremely heavy. He could not conceive any measure calculated to give rise to greater abuse. Some such measure as this, if kept within the bounds of prudence and common sense, might perhaps have been useful, but if the bill were to pass as it stood, he thought it would prove one of the most noxious measures that had been passed since the Reform Bill.
 Viscount Mahon  rose to order. The committee had not yet given in its report to the House. Any allusion, therefore, to its proceedings was irregular.
 Viscount Sandon  then moved the clause above noticed.
 Viscount Sandon  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that it would be better to dispose of his amendment (a clause for prohibiting the consumption of beer on the premises) at once. He had many objections to beer-houses, and could adduce the testimony of clergymen (Roman Catholics as well as Protestants) in Liverpool, Manchester, and other populous towns, that beer-houses were the resort of the worst characters, and had been productive of a great increase of crime. He contended, that the consumption of spirits was not diminished, but rather increased, by the multitude of beer-houses. The evidence of the deputy constable for Manchester slated, that such were the temptations the beer-shops held out to the lower classes, especially the Irish, to distil illicit spirits, that the revenue lost 50,000 l. "That from and after the commencement of the act, it shall be lawful for the commissioners of excise or other persons duly authorised, to grant a licence for the sale of beer, ale, porter, cider, and perry, under the authority of the said recited act (the former Beer Act), to any person applying for the same; but that such licence shall not authorize the sale of beer, &c, to be drunk or consumed in the house of the person specified in the licence."
 Viscount Sandon  remarked, that no species of bribery was more common than that of paying the expenses of out-voters coming to the poll. He was, therefore, strongly opposed to the bill.
 Lord Stanley  said, perhaps he might be allowed to call the attention of the House for a few minutes, to the proceedings to be adopted with regard to the numerous Small Debts Court Bills which had been introduced. The proceedings of all the committees on Small Debts Bills had been suspended till Monday next, with a view that, in the mean time, a full discussion on the subject should take place, in order to secure uniformity in those bills, by the adoption of some general regulations which would be applicable to all. He understood that the
 1006
 Lord Stanley  wished to know if he understood the noble Lord to say, that he intended to send out to Canada a bill for the purpose of taking as general a concurrence of opinion as possible in favour of the provisions of it; and, if so, was it his intention to send out for that purpose the bill which had been printed that morning, and delivered to the Members of the House, or to withdraw that, and send out one framed on different principles?
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped there would be no preliminary objections previously to their proceeding to business. There was a lawyer in Dublin who undertook to speak during the whole term, and he succeeded, but he had nearly failed towards the end of the term, in consequence of the judges having ceased to interrupt him. When it had been suggested to him to rise to order upon the occasion of the preliminary speech which they had just heard he refused to do so, knowing that it would be a more effectual course of hastening the conclusion not to interrupt the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the second reading of the Shannon Navigation Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was glad that the hon. Member had given him the opportunity of going into an explanation with respect to this bill. Some of the objections which the hon. Gentleman entertained were objections of principle. Now, with respect to the increase of official patronage, the hon. Member was mistaken. The first proposition which he had made was, that the provisions of this bill should be carried into effect under the direction of the Board of Works. In a communication which he had had with General Burgoyne who was at the head of the Board of Works, that gentleman had stated his willingness to undertake any duties which he felt he could perform, and to discharge those duties to the best of his ability, without additional pay. A similar answer had been given by Mr. Griffiths; but both these gentlemen stated, that it would be necessary that they should be assisted by a paid officer in carrying into effect the provisions of the bill, and they suggested to the Treasury the appointment
 1016
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that gratuitous commissioners were generally very bad commissioners. The gentlemen whom the right hon. Gentleman had mentioned were in the receipt of very good salaries, and they would do this duty for those salaries. He hoped that the question of compensation would not be opened in Committee—that no discussion would take place as to whether too much or too little had been given. He knew one instance in which the claim was for 30,000 l l 1017
 Mr. S. O'Brien  trusted, that the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, would not even now finally abandon his railway scheme, but would take the sense of the House upon it; if so, he was sure the noble Lord would now carry it by a large majority. With respect to the bill before the House, it had his cordial support.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, his present object was to move a resolution on which to found a clause, to make an application of a sum of 50,000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the original sum voted was applicable to the purposes of both the statutes he had alluded to, but that this sum of 50,000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was glad the hon. Member had asked the question. The hon. Gentleman had asked the question with the view of insinuating that extravagant aid was given to Ireland by means of the three bills now in progress. The first bill, the Loan Bill, though it had an alarming sound, and was calculated to produce on the minds of English Members an apprehension of gross inequality of aid as regarded Ireland, was to enable a charitable society to lend sums not exceeding 5 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had told the hon. Member that the first bill was a charitable bill, and nothing at all was advanced by it, that by the second nothing was voted; and when he looked at this grant of 50,000 l l l 1021
 Mr. S. O'Brien  thought the Irish people were entitled to this meagre grant when the sum of 70,000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the third reading of the Sugar Duties Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had postponed the bill because the hon. Member (Mr. Ewart) and the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets were not in their places. He should have brought it on had they been present, and as they were now present, he thought he was entitled to bring it on.
Mr. Ewart had only known that it was to be brought on about two hours.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was aware, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Wigan, had taken this opportunity of introducing the subject of his motion in the discharge of a public duty, rather than for the purpose of interrupting an annual bill; which must needs be passed, and though he should answer his hon. Friend but shortly, it was not from any intention of offering the smallest disrespect to him. The suggestions which his hon. Friend had made were by no means to be considered so trivial as to be undeserving of remark. The
 1024 l
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  was fully aware of the importance of the subject, and was glad it had been brought under the attention of the House. But he was sure, that neither his constituents, nor the country at large, would be satisfied with drawing a distinction between sugar and cotton, the produce of slave countries or not.
 Mr. Thorndy  trusted that the subject would not be pressed upon the present occasion, for he was satisfied, after this discussion, that the whole question must come under the consideration of Parliament in a better form next year. With the existing treaties with foreign countries, and with the Acts of Parliament, confirming those treaties; any Brazilian importer of sugar could go to the customs,
 1029 d d
 Captain Boldero  never heard a question so neatly avoided in his life. The question he had put was this—what was the sum which was advanced to Ireland by loans and grants, and what the sum advanced to England?
 Captain Boldero  said, he saw three money bills on the orders of the day for Ireland, exclusive of the project for advancing money for railways, the report on which had been withdrawn. He wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer how much money he intended to advance for Ireland this year in the shape of loans and grants, and how much he intended to give for England.
 Lord John Russell : The printed bill. Subject dropped.
 Lord J. Russell  said, it seemed to him, that if the House were to decide on the general principle upon which Small Debt Bills ought to be framed, it would be better to introduce at once a general measure on the subject.
 Lord John Russell  replied, that he did not mean to press the second reading of that bill.
 Lord John Russell  purposed in the course of the present Session, as he had already stated, to move through the further stages the bill for removing those difficulties and obstacles which stood in the way of the temporary government of the province of Lower Canada. It was the intention of the Government to propose a plan, of which the outlines had been already given to the House, for the purpose of effecting the union of the two provinces; but it did appear from the accounts received from Canada that the plan of union, which at first had been adopted not only by one party in Lower Canada, but generally by persons of great influence, and by the Assembly of Upper Canada, had since been the subject of great discussion. When the last accounts came away there was a considerable ferment prevailing on that subject, and a general desire on the part of one great party that this House should not proceed to legislate on the subject without hearing the whole of the case of Upper Canada. He therefore thought it necessary not to endeavour to carry further the measure of union without giving every careful consideration to the question, and the expression of some concurrence in the plan of union. It was therefore the intention of her Majesty's Government, having prepared that bill, to send it to Canada with instructions to obtain information, and as far as possible an approval of the plan, which might be for the general benefit of all persons, and he hoped at an early period of the ensuing Session to submit a measure which would be likely permanently to settle the question. If the right hon. Gentleman object to the course her Majesty's Government intended to pursue with regard to the union, he
 1009
 Lord John Russell  said, the bill for the temporary government of Canada would be brought forward with a view to make it a law, if possible. He stated some time time ago that there were despatches from Upper Canada, stating the opinions that were entertained by the House of Assembly there, and by the committee of that House; further despatches were received yesterday, which he had read that day, from the Governor, stating several important circumstances, and that it would not be advisable without an absolute necessity to have a discussion in that House about the union of the two provinces.
 Mr. C. Buller  wished to ask the noble Lord whether he intended to take any further steps about the other Canada bill.
 Mr. P. Thomson  denied, that anything had fallen from him on a former occasion to justify the hon. Member in supposing that Government had taken up the question. On that occasion he objected to a particular bill, by which tolls were authorised to be levied, being introduced as a private bill, thinking as he did, that a bill giving such an authority ought to have been a public bill. Nor could he give the hon. Gentleman an affirmative answer as to whether the Government would take up the question of harbours of refuge, for no sooner was it suggested, that any one particular spot was fitted for the purpose in any part of the kingdom than up started five or six gentlemen, each maintaining that there was some spot in their
 1010
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  considered the subject as one of very great importance, and deserving the most serious attention. Before, however, he went into the general qustion, he must observe that his hon. Friend who spoke last was misinformed, in stating that there was at present a bounty on refined sugar, equivalent to six shillings per hundred weight. The return on which he had proceeded when he introduced his bill on the subject, was taken in such a manner as to ensure the most exact amount, and care had been taken to prevent anything being given in the shape of bounty. This calculation was also made before there was anything like a short supply of sugar in the market, and they had also taken the prices of sugar in foreign markets, as well as the price of East India sugar, so that the utmost care was taken to prevent a drawback being given in the shape of a bounty. There was an advantage, however, which the West Indians enjoyed from having their sugar refined in this country, which could hardly be designated a bounty, namely, that they obtained a higher price for the treacle which was obtained from the sugar in un-
 1026 l 1027 l 1028
 Mr. Cayley  inquired whether, with reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, on a former evening, he would be prepared on the part of the Government to propose any measure on the subject of harbours of refuge on the north eastern coast.
 Mr. Lucas  did not object to the stringent provisions of the bill. He hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would enforce the payment of the loans to Ireland, for he would then do a service to the country, inasmuch as without a proper understanding on this subject public credit must be injured, and the difficulty of getting capital into Ireland increased. What was intended to be a loan should be so called when asked for, and the payment of it should be insisted upon; but where there was no prospect of repayment, it would be much better to call it a grant at once.
 Mr. Lucas  did not expect this question would have been brought forward to-night, and, therefore, could not be blamed if he was very much astray as to the purport of
 1020
 Mr. Shaw  considered it a great national object, as much to the credit of England as to the advantage of Ireland, that English credit should be made instrumental in promoting Irish objects, and on the other hand there should be a full assurance of repayment. He quite agreed with his hon. Friend behind him, that there was a general impression, and he could not help thinking with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that it was an unjust one, that money lent to Ireland was not repaid. There was no instance, he believed, of money being fairly lent without being repaid It was quite useless to refer to loans to the clergy, because every one knew that they were made under circumstances which precluded all just expectation of repayment. He believed that if it had not been for this impression, money would have been promptly advanced for railways in Ireland.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that up to the stage of the bill at which they had then arrived there had been no discussion of it, and as a great number of hon. Gentlemen at that side of the House were not prepared for having it brought on so soon, he trusted, that the discussion would not then be taken, but that they should proceed with as many of the clauses as they could select upon which there would be no difference of opinion, and that the discussion should be taken at a future period upon whatever day the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) should name. Upon the second reading of the bill some of those who were opposed to it merely stated their reasons for not opposing that stage of the bill, but it had not as yet been fully debated; in fact, it had been very generally believed, until within the last few days, that the Government did intend to proceed with the bill this Session. The bill had been allowed to pass the stage when discussion was generally taken—it had been allowed to be committed  pro formâ 1011 1012
 Sir G. Sinclair  regretted that when the Government determined to postpone other measures, they had not included this amongst the number. He was sorry to find that this measure had not been given up, for he considered it to be a measure calculated to inflict great injury on the Protestant interest in Ireland. As there seemed to be an understanding at both sides to allow the Bill to go into committee without further discussion, he would not interrupt that understanding by stating
 1015
 Mr. Warburton  said, he should have been glad if the Government had not abandoned their scheme with reference to Irish rail-Ways, if it had only been for the purpose of affording a comparison between railroads constructed by the Government and those undertaken by private individuals, and of thus ascertaining which was most calculated to promote the public interests. With this view, he hoped early next Session the Government would renew their scheme.
 Mr. John Ellis  objected to proceeding further with this bill at present. He entertained strong objections to many of its provisions. He objected to the extensive powers given to the three commissioners appointed under the bill, particularly with respect to the appointment of a number of officers at considerable salaries. He thought that the duties of these commissioners could be very well performed by the Board of Public Works in Ireland. He also objected to the provisions of the bill with respect to making the awards final; and he considered the clauses with respect to grand juries far too stringent. There were many other objections which he entertained to the details of the bill, but which could be more properly stated in Committee.
 Mr. Hume  thought himself bound to support the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon Irish grounds. No doubt the money would be repaid, and had it not been for the mistaken notion which prevailed, the Government would not have been obliged to give up the greatest national work ever undertaken for Ireland—the railways. It was for the benefit of both countries, that the credit of England should be lent to promote public works in Ireland, and he hoped the Government would not fail to introduce the railway scheme early next Session. The inquiry which the Government undertook in Ireland did them great credit. In England twenty-nine millions had been paid, and twelve more were owing for railroads—had such an inquiry taken place here, many millions would have been saved, and the railroads made much more convenient. The Chancellor of the Exchequer could not be too particular in taking powers for enforcing the repayment of the money, as it would do benefit both to England and Ireland, in doing away with the prejudice at present existing against lending money for public works.
 Mr. Hume  inquired how much of the 50,000 l
 Mr. Hume  had heard, with great satisfaction, the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, and trusted that the matter would not be unnecessarily postponed. At the present time there were only two-thirds of the average supply of colonial produce from the West Indies, and the people of England were called upon to pay the same amount as if they had a full supply. Therefore it would be most absurd to put off the consideration of the question till 1842. He admitted that he could not draw that distinction which had been made by his hon. Friend, the Member for Wigan, between slave produce and free produce, and he thought it would be inexpedient to make such a distinction in our commercial relations. It was obvious, however, that the subject must be taken up next year by her Majesty's Government. It was clear, therefore, that his hon. Friend would not gain anything by going to a division. For that reason, he trusted he would not press his motion.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, he felt very much the vast importance of the Shannon
 1018
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  trusted the noble Lord would not press on the consideration of the bill, which many gentlemen on both sides of the House had believed the Government did not intend to proceed with this session. The bill, as amended, had not been in a printed shape beyond a fortnight or three weeks, and was increased from 216 clauses to 250. There was a series of thirty-four new clauses, beginning at the 184th., all having for their purpose the amendment of the Poor Relief Act. The qualification provided by this bill was different from what it had been in former bills. The qualification established by the bill was an 8 l l ad libitum 1013 l v mandamus 1014
 Mr. Sheil , in reference to the provisions in the bill before the House on the subject of awards and compensation, said, that although there might be no suspicion of bias in the commissioners, who. without the intervention of juries, were to make the awards, still, as they might be wrong in one case out of a hundred, he thought there ought to be an appeal allowed.
 Mr. Wyse  expressed his regret, that the; Irish Railway Bill had been given up almost without consideration, and he trusted, if the noble Lord did not renew the question, some hon. Member on one side of the House or the other would do so, and thus afford an opportunity not only of discussing the merits of the measure, but of clearing the Irish people from the aspersions which had been cast upon them. He concurred with the hon. Member for Kilkenny, in
 1019
 Mr. Ewart  said it was a subject full of statistics, and he was not prepared to go into the question. The object of the motion of which he had given notice, and which he was sorry at that time to bring before the House, was, in the first place, to show to the House the high price to which sugar would probably arrive at in this country; and, in the second place, to call their attention to the great advantages which might result to this country if they would so far modify the laws which protected colonial sugar as to admit the sugar which was the produce of free labour, as distinguished from sugar which was the produce of slavery. The House might probably be aware that petitions had been presented to that House from the large commercial communities of Liverpool, Glasgow, and other places, in favour of that reduction. Our exports to the Brazils were of very large amount, and our imports thence were very limited. The objection of the friends of humanity to the admission of the sugar of the Brazils was, that it was the produce of slave labour. He confessed he was so far of their opinion. He wished to reduce the duties on sugar, cocoa, coffee, and other articles of tropical production in those countries where they
 1022 s s d s s d l z z z z z 1023
 Mr. Ewart  said, the bill had been postponed on a former occasion, when it had been in order, and, as he was not prepared then to enter upon its discussion, he hoped it might be further postponed to another day.
 Mr. Ewart  would not press his motion.
 Mr. P. Thompson  said, that in order to allow sufficient time to ascertain what course the House might recommend, after the general committee had reported, he should move, that the proceedings of committees on Small Debts Bills be farther suspended for a week from Monday next.
 Sir G. Grey  said, the general committee would certainly meet on Monday next, and would, in a very short time afterwards, make their report, as they had already agreed on the principle on which
 1007
 Mr. M. Philips  thought that it was the duty of the House to take all the steps in its power to lower the price of cotton and sugar in this country, which were necessaries of life. A most valuable trade was going on with the Brazils, and he trusted that every step would be taken to afford every encouragement to it.
 Sir Robert Peel  before the House proceeded to business, begged to remind the noble Lord opposite, that he had said he would that evening intimate to the House what course he intended to pursue with respect to Canada, and that Canada Bill which provided for the union of the provinces. Would the noble Lord now intimate whether he intended to press the second reading of that bill to a division, and if so, on what day the division would be taken?
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that was exactly the ground which he had taken. Would the noble Lord indicate to the House what course he intended to pursue with respect to the future, in order to bring this question to an issue? There was a
 1008
 Mr. Clay  said, the whole of the sugar refiners in the metropolis were interested in this question. The sugar refiners of England possessed advantages over those of the Continent because they could not only export their own manufactures but they could even taken away from the home consumer for that purpose. He agreed in the policy of removing the premiums on the exportation of refined sugar, and approved of the measure that was introduced on the subject last year; but he believed, that the result was, that only about one half of the bounty had been taken off, and that there was still a concealed bounty equivalent to
 1025
 Viscount Morpeth  would not now enter into the merits of the railway question; he only hoped his right hon. Friend would be more successful in his scheme of water carriage than he (Lord Morpeth) had been in that of land carriage. He had involuntarily been compelled to abandon it, and he could only say, that if he had been allowed to prosecute the measure, he was sure he could have satisfied the hon. and learned Member for Bandon, that any notion of patronage was as unfounded in that instance as it had been proved to be unfounded with respect to the bill in the hands of his right hon. Friend.
 Viscount Morpeth  was inclined to think, from what had already occurred, that not much time would be gained if they proceeded now to discuss the bill in committee. He was quite ready to conduct their political differences in whatever mode would be most likely to advance the public business, and therefore, if the right hon. and learned Recorder still adhered to the objections which he had raised, perhaps he would allow the House to go into committee now, and take some of the unopposed clauses, postponing those on which considerable discussion was expected to arise, it being understood that the points likely to be discussed should be fully considered beforehand, and that notice should be given, if possible, of the amendments which it was proposed to make. If that arrangement were acceded to, he should hope that no further objection would be made to the Speaker's leaving the chair in order that the House might go into committee at once, and address themselves to the points not in dispute.
 Lord Ingestrie  said, having been rather irregular the other evening in putting a question to the hon. Baronet, the Member for Sandwich, in reference to an outrage supposed to have been committed on the British Flag in the Mexican seas, he begged now to inquire either of that hon. Member, or of the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary to the Admiralty, first, whether the Admiralty had received any official communication of the fact of that outrage having occurred; and next, whether, supposing the statement of the papers to be true, the midshipman who was stated to have been ordered by Commodore Douglas to be reprimanded, had received such reprimand: and whether, if he had so received it, the Board of Admiralty concurred in the propriety of its infliction.
 Lord Ingestrie  said, as to the rebuke which the hon. Secretary had given him for bringing the subject before the House, he had done so from having seen the accounts in the public organs, and therefore invested with some probability. In those accounts, it appeared that a subordinate officer, for doing what he deemed his
 1062
 Lord Stanley , before the hon. Gentleman answered the question proposed by his hon. Friend, perhaps might be allowed to say that he was satisfied that the Government would find this bill much facilitated if they gave a greater character of respectability—he did not mean mere personal respectability—but that which consisted in weight and authority also, to the inspectors rather than to adopt the plan of having sub-inspectors or superintendents. Setting aside the legislative powers to be given to the inspectors, for such they were, there were also great inquisitorial powers given to them, and such persons should be, as his hon. Friend had observed, above all suspicion, and they should be placed in that position, not only by their personal character, but by a proper salary. Not that he meant to say that an increase of salary would produce an increase of respectability, but he did not think that 350 l 1064
 Sir G. Strickland  remarked, that the dissatisfaction he had heard expressed by the manufacturers was of a different character from that stated by the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire. The noble Lord had stated, that the cause of dissatisfaction was, that the sub-inspectors were persons of inferior character; he had not heard this, but he had heard that the manufacturers complained of being made subject to inspectors' law; they said, "We will obey the laws made by
 1065
 Lord Stanley  repeated, that the manufacturers objected to the inspectors having the power to appoint any number of sub-inspectors, every one of whom would have-the powers of inspectors. The manufacturers said, let there be in each district one resident inspector, whose duty it should be to visit at all times the factories in his district.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, as a general principle, that it was inexpedient to interfere between the employer and employed. The only case that could justify such a
 1072
 Mr. Poulelt  Thomson begged it to be understood that although he had no objection to have the silk mills included, so far as hours were concerned, he should object to any limitation of age.
 Mr. T. Egerton  agreed that the nature of the employment rendered it necessary for children to be admitted into silk mills at an earlier age than into cotton mills.
 Lord Stanley  said, that for his own part, he could see no delicacy or dexteity which could not be acquired by a child of ten yean of age equally as well as by one
 1076
 Mr. Heathcote  said, that even if the proposition of the noble Lord were adopted it would only apply to one-fifth of the lace factories in the kingdom, while the remaining four-firths would be wholly untouched by it. The factories to which the bill would apply were those which were best regulated, and, therefore, called for the least interference on the part of that House. He, however, should not object to having the whole of the lace factories placed under the provisions of this bill when proper information on the subject had been obtained, and, therefore, if the noble Lord would defer the matter for another year he would then be most happy to lend his assistance in carrying the object which the noble Lord had in view into effect.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  contended, that nine was too early an age for permitting children to work either in silk or any other factories.
 Mr. Villiers  said, that the proper way to better the condition of the poor was by affording them the necessaries of life at a cheap rate. The motion for the repeal of the corn-laws which he had made had this object in view, but the hon. Gentlemen opposite, who now wished to appear so humane, by rejecting that motion, proved that when the factory children asked them for bread they would give them a stone.
 Mr. Wilbraham  said, that he could see no inhumanity in allowing children of a tender age to work in silk or lace factories. He had visited many of those places and he could only say that the children whom he saw appeared both healthy and happy.
 Mr. Heathcote  thought the information which the noble Lord had received on this subject was incorrect, and that if the matter were properly examined into he would see the necessity for waiving his present objection.
 Lord Stanley  thought, that his noble Friend intended to persevere in his proposition with respect to the lace factories.
 Mr. Villiers  said, that the noble Lord was under a misapprehension with respect to the Corn-laws, and he had also mentioned places where Corn-laws were in existence, such as Lyons. If the manufacturers in this country were allowed the advantage which would arise from the increased demand for their goods, that would be consequent upon an open trade in corn, the persons employed in the manufactories would receive a corresponding advantage. He believed if the Corn-laws were repealed, it would have a most beneficial effect in stimulating the manufacturers of the country, by the increased demand for our manufactures which it would produce. He believed the noble Lord to be perfectly sincere in his wish to benefit the manufacturing population; but he would ask the noble Lord to consider upon the question, would they receive the same amount of wages for a reduced number of hours which they at present receive? or was he prepared with a means of raising their wages?
 Mr. O'Connell  would have been very glad if the noble Lord had commenced his career of philanthropy by inducing his class to sacrifice their individual interests by giving the people cheaper bread. The Corn-laws were good for nothing to the landlords if they did not make bread dear. He had merely risen to protest against that part of the speech of the noble Lord in which he eulogised the King of Prussia as a man of the finest feelings. Now, would the noble Lord wish to see a King of this country lay hold of two archbishops, and how would the noble Lord relish it to see one of these imprisoned in a fortress for two years without trial or investigation? The noble Lord would not eulogise any sovereign of this country who should so treat the Archbishops of Canterbury and York. There was no occasion at all to have introduced this subject.
 Mr. O'Connell  said that their sole crime was being quite consistent with their principles, and maintaining that discipline which it was their duty to maintain. The conduct of the King of Prussia was, therefore, doubly tyrannical.
 Mr. Colquhoun  moved that that part of the clause conferring the power upon the inspector to certify the incompetency of the schoolmaster, should be expunged.
 Lord Stanley  said a few words in support of the amendment, and suggested that it was giving the inspector too much power to say that he might ruin a school-
 1092
 Lord Stanley  admitted the force of the objection of the hon. Member, but it applied equally to the former part of the clause, by which the inspector had to make a declaration of the incompetency of the schoolmaster, &c.
 Lord Stanley  could not understand why his noble Friend could not as well consent to the Chairman's reporting progress now as after these clauses. The next clause would take some time to discuss, as several hon. Members had amendments to propose in it, and he believed the sense of the Committee would be taken on it. They had now been sitting in the Committee from half-past five o'clock to nearly one, and several Members had had no opportunity of procuring refreshment.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that some amendments had been made in the other House to this bill, which would render farther alterations necessary; and as the bill, after all these amendments, would be but an incomplete measure, he would ask leave to bring in a bill which should carry out the intentions of both Houses of Parliament in a perfect manner. In the meantime, he would not discuss the amendments made by the Lords, but when the House had both bills before them, they would be able to determine which was best.
 Mr. F. Maule  thought that this was the only mode of regulating schools which could be adopted.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that in consequence of what had fallen from hon. Members on both sides of the House, he thought he should do better if he waited until the House got into Committee before he entered upon the various details' which had been alluded to. With regard to the salaries of the sub-inspectors, it would be seen by a reference to the bill that it was not intended to touch upon them. There were many respectable persons in those offices, and it was not intended to come to Parliament for any fixed salaries for them. With respect to altering the proposition empowering the inspectors to make regulations, he was so perfectly convinced of the necessity of that power in order to procure the proper administration of the act, that he should be most unwilling to depart from the clause giving that power.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that the disease and mortality of manufacturing towns proceeded from many causes besides the hours at which the people were employed in the factories, and he therefore could not admit that argument. The noble Lord had told them that on the continent the hours were longer. Now would he say that the children in Britain were less robust or capable of sustaining exertion? He would remind them that whilst they imagined they were engaged solely in legislating, for the advantage of the children, they might be really legislating upon the moving powers of machinery. He objected to the amendment, and he trusted the Committee would not adopt it.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, it was not intended to make any alteration in the principle of the bill, either as regarded age or time.
 Mr. F. Maule  moved, that the House resolve into a committee on the Factories' Regulation Bill,
 Lord Ashley  was well aware that the regulations established by the inspectors under the act of 1833 had been the great cause of annoyance to the masters, and yet under this bill a new system of regulations by the same authority would be brought into operation. He agreed with his hon. Friend below him (Mr. Wilson Patten), that it was most desirable that the persons intrusted with the very high powers conferred on the inspectors by this bill should be persons of financial respectability. He had thought that the expenses of travelling were to be defrayed by way of mileage, for it was impossible that an inspector with 250 l l
 Lord Ashley  was not aware that he had said anything at all uncourteous, or that he had conducted himself with any discourtesy towards the noble Lord. If he had done anything of that kind, he was quite ready, in the face of the House, to make an ample apology; but he did not think he deserved an answer in such a tone as that just spoken by the noble Lord.
 Lord Ashley  supported the amendment, and begged to remind the House that a similar amendment had been proposed in the other House in the bill of 1833, but this House refused to agree to it. In all other cases, the interest of persons under the age of twenty-one years was protected, and he thought that the interest of those who had only their labour to depend upon should be so likewise.
 Lord Ashley  proposed to strike out those words in the clause which excepted silk mills from the operation of the bill, as he had never seen any reason why children in silk mills should not receive the same advantages which the Factory Bill would confer on others. He was aware that he might be met with the objection that their work was lighter than that in other mills, but it should not be forgotten that it involved the necessity of their standing upon their legs for very many hours together. When he was at Macclesfield he had devoted much of his time both in the day and at night to seeing the children both at work and at their homes; and he had never before witnessed, and he hoped he should never again behold, so much bad health and deformity as had there been caused by this excess of toil. With respect to the education to be given to the children under the Factory Bill, the noble Lord here read an extract from a report made by a factory inspector, who had stated, that soon after the bill was passed in 1833 he had received a letter from the chairman of the Macclesfield Union informing him that much agitation prevailed there and at Manchester in consequence of the
 1074
 Lord Ashley  said, that if the object were not to throw the matter over to another Session, he would not, of course, object to afford the right hon. Gentleman the time he required.
 Lord Ashley  said, that it was not his intention to detain the House at any great length, for he felt that at the present period of the Session, and in the present state of the House, it was almost impossible to sustain any long debate upon this question, nor could he hope to be supported by all those friends for whose assistance he might have looked under more favourable circumstances. Nevertheless he could not find it in his heart to let this opportunity go by without asserting the principles which he had so long contended for, and stating the opinions which he had so long entertained. It was no new principle that he asked for, because the House had already, in the year 1816, assented to a bill, which went through a first and second reading in which the hours of labour were limited to ten and a half hours. That bill was introduced by the father of his right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth, and would have found its way to the House of Lords but for the sudden and unexpected termination of the Session. But if ten hours and a half were then thought sufficient, how much more requisite was it to fix that as the limit now, when it was notorious that labour had increased, and pressed with tenfold severity on the operative classes? He himself (Lord Ashley) had attempted to reassert the principle in 1832 and 1833. No change had yet been effected: the motives for introducing it now were doubly powerful, looking to the great mass of evidence
 1079 1080
 Lord Ashley  said, he had given notice months ago that he intended to move that both the silk and lace factories should be included in this measure.
 Lord Ashley  said that there was nothing in his proposition that went to the extent of defining the amount of wages. As to the question of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, he must say that he did not entertain the same apprehensions as that hon. Gentleman; because in 1818 and 1819, when the hours of labour were limited, precisely the same arguments were used. It was then said that if they reduced the hours of labour they must reduce the amount of wages, and thus produce great consequent misery to the manufacturers. What was the result? The hours of labour were greatly reduced by the bill of 1819; but were the wages reduced? Not in any one single respect. They continued at the same amount for four years after, and were reduced from other causes. It was found also that the reduction of the hours did not lead to any diminution of production.
 Lord Ashley  said that if the Archbishops of Canterbury and York had acted in the manner in which those other two bishops appeared to have acted, he thought they ought to be similarly treated.
 Lord Ashley  would remind the noble Lord, that the bill had been introduced on the 14th of February, and it was the 1st of July before they went into Committee on the bill.
 Lord Ashley  could not understand why the noble Lord was so adverse to the discussion of the provisions of that bill. The noble Lord seemed to be very peppery on the subject of this bill. He should have some consideration for those sitting on the benches on that (the Opposition) side, as they had had no opportunity of getting any refreshment for several hours. He trusted that the motion for adjournment would be persisted in.
 Lord Ashley  proposed that two-pence a-week be substituted as the amount of contribution.
 Lord John Russell  was anxious that that bill should pass, as the other measures that he had introduced; he thought, therefore, that it was not justifiable on the part of the noble Lord to insinuate that he was actuated by sinister motives with respect to the bill, and although he often had similar charges thrown out against him, it could hardly be expected that he could be indifferent to such accusations. He had also been constantly charged with not proceeding with the business of the country; but was it surprising that delay arose when such impediments were thrown in the way of public measures.
 Lord John Russell  did not conceive that there would be any lengthened discussion on these clauses after the time the last clause had engaged their attention. If they then adjourned, the whole subject of education would be re-opened the next time they went into Committee.
 Lord John Russell  moved for leave to introduce a bill for the further suspension of ecclesiastical appointments. It was not, as he had stated the other evening, his intention to proceed further this Session with the Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill, and he therefore wished to continue the bill now in force for the suspension of ecclesiastical appointments for another year, with some slight alterations. He proposed to give power in certain cases to renew leases, the want of this power being now greatly complained of, and he proposed also, that where there
 1096
 Lord John Russell  trusted, that the Committee would proceed with the remaining clauses respecting education. He certainly should feel it to be his duty to resist the proposition of the hon. Member.
 Lord J. Russell  begged to make one observation on the question itself. It seemed to him that the noble Lord (Lord Ashley) had not answered the question put by his hon. Friend, the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers) namely, whether, having reduced the hours of labour, the noble Lord could provide at the same time that the same remuneration should be given for the shortened hours of labour? Did the noble Lord mean to
 1084
 Lord John Russell  would not detain the House by giving any answer to the observations which had fallen from the noble Lord.
 Mr. Hindley  observed in the votes notice of several amendments as to the number of hours children should be employed. He wished to ask the Government if it was intended to make any alteration as to the number of hours? It was his desire to make the bill as agreeable to all parties as possible, and he therefore hoped by his hon. Friends on both sides of the House, some compromise would be entered into.
 Mr. Hindley  moved an amendment to
 1089
 Mr. C. P. Thomson  thought that the probability of the abuse of the powers conferred upon the inspectors would be nothing in comparison with the difficulty that might be produced by the omission of this part of the clause.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that all the delay he asked for was such as would enable him to communicate with the parties. Having had no notice of the noble Lord's proposition, it was only fair to give them an opportunity of expressing their views upon it.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that if this were the case, for the reasons which he had already stated, he must vote against it if they came to a division.
 Mr. C. P. Thomson  requested the House to recollect, that under the present Act the inspectors had the effective power of disqualifying schoolmasters, for the salary of the schoolmaster or schoolmisstress was to be withheld whenever the inspector declared such person to be incompetent.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that the object of his hon. Friend evidently was to impose restrictions on the period of adult labour in factories, and that the period of work in mills should be ten hours. If such restrictions were allowed, the effect would be that those parties who were dependent on their labour would be deprived of so much of the means at their command. It might be said, that this was the principle of the bill; but in it the legislature proposed to protect the interests of those who could not protect themselves; but no one would say that, looking to the character of the working classes of this country, that those above the age of eighteen were not in a situation to protect themselves. He confessed, that he thought that one of the evils of the factory system was to make the children independent of their parents at too early an age. He hoped the House would not consent to this amendment.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that, as the silk mills were excluded from the bill of last year, the Government did not think themselves authorised to make the alteration in this bill which the noble Lord now proposed. He was willing to admit, that he could see no material reason why the silk mills should be excluded from the operation of this measure up to a certain point, and the reason why they were omitted last year was on account of the manufacture being young in this country, and because it seemed justified by other peculiar circumstances connected at that period with the silk trade. It should not be forgotten that employment in the silk mills was not as unhealthy as that in cotton mills. The temperature was much lower, but still, from what had been stated by the inspector, he was not inclined to oppose their being included in the present bill, so far as respected hours, but not as regarded age; for he thought there were good grounds for believing that children of nine years of age might be allowed to work in silk mills without any disadvantage to them.
 1075
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, the very state of things to which the hon. Gentleman alluded rendered it almost impossible that any measure could be proposed this Session. The report had been laid on the table, but not printed, and of course it was necessary that it should be circulated amongst the Members of that House, and that the important facts it contained should go forth to the public before they could well proceed to legislate on this subject. He very, greatly doubted, therefore, that
 1063
 Mr. Charles Wood  conceived the noble Lord to allude to a letter which appeared in the  Times Ingestrie Hampshire Advertiser. Hampshire Advertiser 1061
 Mr. Baines  thought that this would be giving a dangerous power to the inspector, as, by giving such reasons in writing, he might be brought within the operation of the law of libel, in a similar manner that the printer of that House had been.
 Mr. Baines  said, that if a proposal were made to diminish the amount of agricul-
 1082
 Mr. Cayley  said, the real question was one of humanity, and had nothing to do with the Corn-laws.
 Mr. Darby  observed, that unless the Government undertook to communicate with the parties, it could not be expected that his noble Friend could ascertain their sentiments between now and the bringing up of the report.
 Mr. Darby  moved that the Chairman report progress.
 Mr. Grote  declared his opinion that this was one of the most salutary provisions in the bill, and that the amendment suggested by the hon. Member for Knares-borough would create little change.
 Mr. G. Palmer  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade respecting a subject of vast importance involving the lives of British sailors; and as it was now getting late in the Session, he wished to press that subject the more earnestly upon the attention of her Majesty's Government. The right hon. Gentleman must be aware that a committee had sat to consider the means that should be taken to preserve the lives of seamen, and to prevent, if possible, the frequency of shipwrecks; that committee had made their report, which was laid on the Table of the House last Tuesday week, but he believed that the printer had not been able to send a copy to every Member yet. The right hon. Gentleman, however, had no doubt possessed a copy for some days, and he wished to ask him, therefore, whether he thought of bringing forward any measure upon this subject in the pressent Session?
 Mr. Wilson Patten  rose not for the purpose of prolonging any discussion before the House went into Committee, but for the sake of obtaining information by which his opinion, and the opinions of many other hon. Members, he thought, would be influenced in respect to this bill. Those who had looked into it must have seen that extraordinary powers—greater powers than the local magistracy possessed—were to be given to persons holding very subordinate situations under the inspectors; and those powers, he was convinced, would tend very much to injure the bill in its operation. Now he wished to enquire of the hon. Gentleman what salary he intended to give under the new bill to each of the sub-inspectors, and whether be would consent to increase the number of inspectors, with a larger salary to each, and to do away with the sub-inspectors altogether? He was convinced that the roaster manufacturers, who considered themselves rather hardly dealt with by this bill, wished that the inspectors should be persons of such authority that they should be above suspicion of collusion with themselves or with any other party.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, the existing law-had failed, owing to its complicated nature. He would recommend the Government to adopt such a bill as would meet the general interests and feeling of the people, and by so doing they would go far to render inspection and its attendant expense unnecessary.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that this was a matter of the utmost importance, as involving the interests of 400,000 persons employed in mills and factories. The object of the measure was no doubt to give protection to the children employed in the factories, and he gave Government full credit for its intentions, and the only difficulty with him was as to the means by which the end might be obtained, for he did not think that the provisions of that bill would effect the object in view as satisfactorily as other means which had been devised. The hon. Member then went into a review of the various Acts which had been passed on this subject since 1809, when the age of the persons brought within the operation of the Act was fixed. A similar bill passed in 1825, extending the enactments of the former bill; and in 1831, an act was passed, when the legislature fixed the age for, protection at eighteen, and declared the number of hours' work in a week should be fixed at 69. In 1833, the present Act
 1069 l 1070 1071
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that human nature was the same on the Continent as in the country, and that there as well as here there was a disposition to get rich as soon as possible. He contended that without legislative interference the children would be worked unmercifully. By a return made in 1819 it had been clearly shown that the average rate of time in factories was seventy-seven hours per week. In Nottingham and the neighbourhood they worked in the factories to the extent of thirteen, and in some instances, of fifteen hours per day. He would at once admit that if they reduced the term of labour they would thereby increase the cost of
 1083
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that he should not bring forward the amendment of which he had given notice until that of the noble Lord had been disposed of.
 Mr. Hume  did not think there was any evidence before them to warrant this alteration. The people wanted cheap bread, and not restrictions upon labour of this kind. The right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, had assigned no sufficient reason for this alteration, and certainly such a course should not have been taken without proper information having been given to the parties interested in the change.
 Mr. Pease  said that all practical men knew that when the hours of labour were shortened the children were over-worked and over-driven, and the exertions of the children were rendered much more intense and cruel. He employed a great many hands, and he must say, as a practical man, that if the hours of labour were abridged, he must, unless he submitted to torture and over-drive the children, inevitably close his manufactory.
 Mr. Slaney  observed, that as the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade was willing to include the silk mills, the noble Lord ought to be satisfied, and not press his proposition with reference to the lace factories.
 Mr. Slaney  said, there seemed to be a misunderstanding on this point, which he thought it right to explain away. The de-
 1077
 Mr. Redington  proposed that a proviso be inserted in the clause, declaring that in such case where the inspector declared a schoolmaster to be incompetent that he should give a copy in writing of his reasons for his belief in such incompetency on the part of such master or mistress.
 Mr. Ewart  would support the proposition of the noble Lord, but he could not give his assent to the noble Lord's reasoning with respect to the Corn-laws. Did the noble Lord mean to say that the
 1081
 Sir F. Burdett said , the country should feel indebted to his noble Friend for putting the question. The accounts referred to had appeared in very authentic public organs; and he trusted that no time would be lost by the Admiralty in making inquiry into the facts.
 Mr. M. Philips  thought the observations which had fallen from the hon. Baronet who had just sat down were well worthy the consideration of the House. Let the law be clearly laid down and defined in the act itself; for supposing the sub-inspectors had nothing more to do than to carry out the proposed law, still the manufacturers were exposed to their putting their own interpretation upon it. He believed that the master manufacturers in the district with which he was connected did not, by objecting to sub-inspectors, seek to free themselves from the vigilance which the law had imposed over them; but they did desire that they should not be intruded upon by persons of inferior stations, a circumstance which they, gentlemen of character and honour, had felt severely. That they were gentlemen of character and honour would, he believed, not be denied, and therefore the feelings of those gentlemen were entitled to the fair consideration of the House. He did not mean to cast the slightest imputation on the character of any individual now holding the office of superintendent or inspector; he only looked forward to the operation of the proposed bill, and he must say it was possible, nay probable, that under the proposed bill appointments night be made extremely obnoxious to the manufacturers whose works they might be appointed to visit. In the town with which he was connected it might happen that persons might be appointed who were practically acquainted with the details of the machinery and process of manufacturing, and might not such individuals take advantage of the improvements made in the machinery which
 1066
 Mr. Mark Philips  thought, that if an amendment was adopted, it would have a great practical difficulty in the working of the bill. It would prevent any persons under the age of twenty-one attending in the factories at such times for the purpose of cleaning the machinery. This was necessary to be done two or three times a week, and was generally done during meal times by young men, by the mill-owner, or be liable to a heavy penalty if he employed any one under the age of twenty-one.
 Mr. Mark Philips  moved an amendment to have the words "or partially," inserted before the words "by the power of water."
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that the noble Lord could not have chosen a worse opportunity than the present for bringing forward his proposition, when the manufacturers of this country were exposed to so much active competition on the part of foreign countries. The injurious effect of this proposition would first be felt by the operatives themselves, for if a diminution took place in the hours of labour, they must make a corresponding reduction in the price of labour, for it would be impossible for the manufacturer to pay the same amount of wages for a diminished supply of labour. Whatever the noble Lord might think of the effect of foreign competition, he contended that it would be impossible for the manufacturer to resist that competition with diminished hours of labour. He did not mean to discuss the question as one of feeling or humanity, but as a question of existence. He spoke as a practical man, and he contended that the competition was so great that the manufacturers of this country would not be able to stand if they were compelled to adopt such an alteration as this. He did not speak thus from any want of feeling for those employed in factory labour, but, as a practical man, he must bow to circumstances over which he had no control.
 Sir J. Graham  conceived that this would evidently be considered a privileged communication, directed to be made by Act of Parliament, and therefore was not open to such an objection.
 The Attorney-General  did not think that even the Court of Queen's Bench would allow such a view to be taken of the subject, although he confessed, after what had taken place, that he felt great diffidence in giving an opinion.
 The Lord Advocate  would not detain the House by many observations after the remarks of the hon. Baronet, to whose services on this subject he could bear the most ample testimony; and he would not have troubled the House at all, but for the manner in which he had been alluded to by the Mover and Seconder of the amendment, who had expressed great anxiety that he should state some new ground in support of the alteration proposed. He should have met that challenge without hesitation, if he had heard any new grounds of objection stated; but it seemed to him somewhat extraordinary that when the bill came to a third reading, objections should be urged which had been answered over and over again, and that he should be asked to state some new answer to those objections. It was said, that the Judges only sat for half a year, and only attended about two hours a day. All the Judges were equally censured, without any distinction in respect to individuals however distinguished. They were all characterised as idle. But it should be recollected, that the greater part of the official duties of the
 1169 1170
 The Lord Advocate  observed, that it distinctly went to repeal all Acts since 1598.
 The Attorney General  would delay the House for a very few minutes. Nothing new could be urged on this subject, because all the old objections were answered by all the old arguments in favour of it, and which had always proved satisfactory and successful. The hon. Member for Greenock had said he venerated and
 1173 l Hume
 The Lord Advocate  opposed the clause. The Act of Sederunt, of which so much had been said by the hon. Member for Greenock, was nothing more than a rule or regulation of the Court with respect to its own proceedings. As to the clause that had been proposed, he could see no necessity for it, inasmuch as the object it had in view was already fixed by statute. As to the latter part of the clause, he considered it would be derogatory to the Judges themselves, and would give a false picture of what took place in the Court of Session, He should
 1176
 Mr. Aglionby  had not heard one word applicable to the clause before the House, however, he could not support any clause which should fix the salary of the Judges of Scotland at 2,000 l 1177
 Mr. Aglionby  had thought all parties had agreed, that it was desirable, that the judges in Scotland should not have inducements held out to them to continue on the bench when their faculties were in any way decayed, and it was with this view, that the clause had been framed. The hon. and learned, the Attorney-general, admitted the principle of the clause to be good, but he objected to it because it did not extend to this country and Ireland. If it was a good clause, why not continue it in the bill, and also take steps to extend it to this country? He should oppose the withdrawal of the clause.
 Mr. E. Ellice, jun.,  had objected to the bill in its previous stages, on the ground, that they ought not to legislate on this subject until inquiry had been made into the whole system of the administration of justice in Scotland. He was still opposed to the bill on the same ground. This clause was one of the best in the bill, and he should also object to its withdrawal.
 Mr. E. Ellice, jun.,  observed, that his reason for seconding the amendment of his hon. Friend was, that this bill would ensure an additional expenditure of 15,000 l
 Mr. J. Stewart  moved the third reading of this bill.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that it might be very well to excite a smile by proposing such an amendment, but he could not help saying, that doing so tended to bring the proceedings of that House into contempt; he, therefore, protested against it.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, this Bill proceeded on the same principle as other bills that had passed the House, and which had not met with any opposition.
 Mr. Fox Maule  moved the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into Committee to take into further consideration the report of this bill.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  objected to their proceeding with this bill in the absence of the right hon. and learned Member for Ripon, who had objected to it in its former stages.
 Sir G. Sinclair  said, that during the two former discussions on this bill he had unavoidably omitted several statements, of which he was anxious to put the House in possession. He felt much gratified, as well as highly honoured, in standing forward to urge upon public attention the just and too long neglected claims of some
 1162 1163 1164 "Howick, Jan 17, 1839. "Sir,—I have this morning had the honour of receiving your letter of the 1st, I well remember a representation having been made to me, when in office, of the inadequacy of the salaries of the Scotch judges. The details of the subject are not so perfectly in my recollection, but I can have no hesitation in saying, that I felt satisfied at the time that an alteration was necessary and that the recommendation of the committee did not go at all beyond what the exigency of the case required. I must therefore, wish you success in an object
 1165 minimum 1166 1167 1168 dies non
 Mr. Warburton  said, hon. Gentlemen forgot that the House had been lately engaged in a discussion with respect to their privileges. Suppose they were to order these returns and they were refused—how were they to enforce their privileges unless they were made part of an Act of Parliament? They could not then be refused, but after what had passed, how were they sure they could enforce their orders?
 Mr. Oswald : The Attorney-General had stated this measure would not be unpopular in Scotland. He believed, that any increase in the salaries of the Judges
 1174
 Mr. Hume  could not see how it could be considered derogatory to the Judges to make a return of the number of hours they sat. Who, he would ask, were the men that refused to give the information but those who were ashamed that their habits should be known. If a Judge did his duty he thought he could have no objection to its being known how long he sat. He had been asked upon what ground it was, that he considered the Judges of Scotland amply paid at 2,000 l
 Mr. Hume  complained that it did not specify the Acts which it proposed to repeal.
 Mr. Hume  thought that that only made it the more objectionable. He should oppose it.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the amendment. He considered this bill to be one of the grossest jobs that had for some time come under the consideration of the House. He had always objected to the appointment of thirteen judges, for a population little more than that of Yorkshire and Lancashire united. It appeared to him, considering the duties they had to do, that it was the very  acme Hear
 Mr. Hume  moved an amendment to clause 12, to the effect that the number of judges be reduced, though he would not name any particular number, as upon that point there were different opinions; and that they should sit ten months in the year, the same as the judges did in England and Ireland.
 Mr. Hume  stated, that the bill had his unqualified opposition; and instead of tending to lessen the expense of these courts, it would ensure a most lavish expenditure. He protested once more against it, and thought that it was properly described in the title proposed by his hon. Friend.
 Mr. Wallace  proposed, that the title of the bill should be amended as follows:—"A bill to regulate the duties to be performed by the judges of the supreme Court of Session in Scotland, so as to increase their means of comfort and enjoyment by adding largely to their salaries without increasing their judicial duties, without diminishing the delays and consequent expense to the suitors by reason of their present long vacations."
 Mr. Wallace  proposed the insertion of words to the effect "that within fourteen days after passing acts of sederunt by the Court of Session, copies of such acts should be laid on the Table of that House, if Parliament was sitting, and if it was not sitting, within fourteen days after the commencement of the ensuing Session, and that such acts of sederunt should not be binding until they had received the sanction of Parliament."
 Mr. Wallace  conceived, that he was one of the "triumvirate" of opponents to this bill who had been alluded to. Certainly he had always been opposed to granting the public money when he was quite convinced it was not required. He agreed in characterising the bill as about the most nefarious job ever seen in that House. He begged leave to correet the Lord Advocate as to the judge's retiring allowances, with regard to which the learned Lord was quite mistaken, as he would see if he did but read the 13th clause, which "enacted that a Judge of the Court of Session, who shall have attained the age of seventy, and shall have acted as such
 1171 l l 1172
 Mr. Wallace  moved the following clause to be inserted after clause 12:—"And be it enacted, that a return shall be made within fourteen days from the commencement of every future Session, and be presented to both Houses of Parliament, setting forth, in columns, the number of days each division of the Inner House has sat during the Session immediately preceding and also the number of hours each of the said divisions usually sits daily; and that the said returns shall be signed by the senior Judge of each Court respectively." This was one of the most important questions relating to Scotland that could come before the House. He had received a letter from a Mr. Campbell, which he would read to the House. The letter was addressed to the Attorney-General, from a correspondent of his in Glasgow, and clearly pointed out the unjustifiable interference of the Court of Session with a humane Act of Parliament—namely, the Cessio Bonorum Act. The hon. Member then read the letter, which strongly deprecated the course pursued by the Court of Session with respect to Acts of Sederunt. Now if that letter was founded on fact, it was an undoubted proof of what he had alleged. If the allegations contained in it were untrue, then the Attorney-general had his correspondent to deal with, and so had he. For his own part, he would take care that the letter should be made public through the medium of the press, the Chartist part of it as well as any other. The hon. Member concluded by proposing the first clause of which he had given notice.
 Mr. Wallace,  in reply, hoped to gain the vote of the hon. Member for Cocker-mouth. He might make periodical motions for these returns, but he might be resisted by the Lord Advocate, or some Lord Advocate, and what chance had he of getting them. He would press his amendment to a division.
 Mr. Wallace  then moved several successive clauses all of which were negatived without a division.
 Mr. Gillon  rose to oppose the motion, for it was in reality a bill to give an increase of salary to judges whose income was sufficiently large already. The Scottish Judges to whom he alluded had received an increase of salary on three different occasions, and the last increase, namely, in 1810, was upon the ground that the increased price of the necessaries of life, it being then during the period of high prices occasioned by the war, had rendered such an increase necessary, but that cause for an increase could not be now alleged when prices had fallen fully one-third. The salaries which it was proposed had been raised from 1,000 l l l l l l l l l 1160 s d 1161
 The Attorney-General  stated, that the adoption of such a clause would render the making all such acts of sederunt nugatory, for as often as acts of sederunt were made, so often must they have Acts of Parliament to confirm them. It might be useful to make provision that so often as these acts of sederunt were passed, they should be laid before Parliament, but it would be impossible to agree to this proposition.
 The Attorney-General  had not quite so long experience in the profession as the hon. Baronet, neither did he wish to say anything disrespectful to the bench; but at the same time he certainly could suppose a case, where great public benefit might be gained by bribing judges with handsome allowances to retire from the bench. He could imagine cases in which judges of honorable mind and disinterested feelings would have a disinclination to retire, where they might entertain reluctance to adopt that step, from the fear of diminishing their income, and interfering with the comforts of their families. Should such a case occur, he thought that the delay in the administration of justice, and the monstrous mischief which might be so produced would be cheaply avoided by paying an additional amount of salary, if, by so doing, that object could be accomplished. But, nevertheless, while he stated this much upon the general question, he must admit that he had been much impressed with the observations of the hon. Baronet. And while he stated the opinion which he had now given, it certainly was on the assumption that it should be one of general application; that it should be enforced throughout the country as a rule; and he was satisfied it ought not to be begun in Scotland, and so brought into partial operation. So much, indeed, was he of that opinion, that he thought the clause ought at once to be withdrawn.
 The Attorney-General trusted, that his hon. and learned Friend would persist in
 1183
 Sir W. Rae  objected to the clause fixing the retired allowances of the judges at the same amount as their increased salaries. When the salaries of the English judges were increased in the years 1824 and 1825, a proportionate increase was resisted when claimed by him on behalf of the Scotch judges, until certain reforms in the system of legal procedure should be adopted in the courts in Scotland. That argument was used by Mr. Home Drummond, and agreed to by all the Members present at that discussion. In a subsequent Session of Parliament, he introduced a bill which, in accordance with those suggestions, not only abolished the Jury Court and Commissary Court of Scotland, but also did away with two judges, which had not been recommended; and when all those things had been done, he certainly was surprised that so long a period had been allowed to pass without giving the remaining judges the promised increase of their salary. By the present law the judges, on retiring, are allowed three-fourths of the salaries which they receive at the time of their resignations, and he certainly thought that was a sufficient allowance. Therefore, while he approved of the increase to the salaries of the judges, he must say, he could not agree to the proposal of continuing them in the receipt of their full salaries when they may have retired from their official duties. On what account did the House agree to give large salaries, but as a remuneration for the duties which those judges had to perform? It was given to them as a recompense for those duties and for the status they had to fulfil; and there was no principle in which it could with justice be maintained, that they should continue to draw the same allowances when they no longer had those duties to perform or that status to fill. He was confident the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney-general could adduce no precedent for such a course. It was entirely unexampled in the judicial annals of the country, and it was idle to think that men of high character and integrity would be bribed by the increase of a few hundred pounds to retire from their situations. Therefore,
 1180
 Sir W. Rae  said, that the bill was so changed in its character since it was last before the House, that he felt bound to call the attention of hon. Members to what its provisions now really were. As regarded the general state of prisons in Scotland, and the improvement of them, he believed that no difference existed. The great question was, as to the manner in which those improvements were to be carried into effect. It had been proposed by her Majesty's Government that three general prisons should be established in Scotland. Now hon. Members on that side of the House thought that three general prisons in Scotland were unnecessary. Another objection was, that it proposed to make a general assessment throughout Scotland, without any reference to the expense which might be incurred by each county. In his opinion, in Scotland as well as in England, each county should bear the expense of its own prisoners. All the alterations, however had been resisted in the bill, which he and his Friends had proposed in Committee. Their opposition had been unsuccessful. Another day had been fixed, and they felt they were exposing themselves to the imputation of endeavouring to defeat a measure for the general improvement of Scotch prisons. Under these circumstances, in order to prevent misunderstanding, he had put on paper a plan by which they proposed to accomplish the same ends, and which would not be open to the objections of which he had complained. He had transmitted a copy of it to the Home Office, and the terms proposed had been agreed to. Such being the case nothing now remained but to put the measure into proper shape. The terms agreed to were, that one dépôt should be established, to the fitting up of which the 10,000 l 1158 l
 Lord Howick  hoped they would not then bring under discussion any question of privilege—they were not then either doubted or disputed. But if they were to embody such a clause in an Act of Parliament, would it not be suggesting to those who might wish to dispute their privileges the propriety of doing so?
 Mr. O'Connell  would not detain the House, but begged to state, that he differed with the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and thought the House ought to pause and deliberate before they determined on their future proceedings. He rejoiced that her Majesty's Government did not wish to pledge the House to an union of the two provinces, and considered it much better that that question had been left for further consideration. The materials for such an union were discordant, and it could not be accomplished without sacrificing the rights and interests of the people in one province or the other—and what was to the advantage of the public in the Upper, would act injuriously to those in the Lower. He had seen, with deep regret, the recommendation for union, in the otherwise admirable report of Lord. Durham. It would annihilate the political power of the French Canadians. These French Canadians had been justly described in that report as persons highly benevolent, charitable, excellent, and possessed of the best moral qualifications— exemplary in the performance of their duties, and what was their return? To annihilate them as a separate race [ No, no 1199
 Mr. Ellice  said, he must say one word in relation to what had just fallen from the noble Lord. For the last two years the province of Lower Canada had been in a state of the most distressing inactivity, all commerce was at an end, emigrants could not establish themselves there with any hope of employment in any public work. So many were suspended, though parties were willing to enter into speculations for the establishment of railroads between Upper and Lower Canada, and though others were willing to contract with the Government to continue the great canals opened by Upper Canada, so as to connect that navigation with the ocean. Every one of these works were necessary to give employment to the population in a
 1210 1211
 Sir Robert Ferguson  said, that as he understood the clause of the bill, at the end of three years the franchise would be conferred on every householder rated for the poor-rates. That being the case, persons would have a right to vote who did not contribute to the borough fund. If the right hon. Gentleman, therefore, should carry his amendment, he should feel it his duty to propose upon that amendment a 10 l. l. l
 Sir R. Ferguson  moved the omission of the 22d clause, settling the qualification at the end of three years.
 Mr. O'Connell  opposed the motion,
 1229
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the present bill was brought in instead of one which had already passed that House and been sent up to the House of Lords, whence it had been returned with such amendments as would render its passing into a law very inconvenient. For instance, the Lords removed all loans on deposits of goods from the operation of the usury laws. Now, one effect of that would be to repeal the Pawnbrokers' Act, which certainly was not contemplated on the introduction of the bill. There were other amendments by the Lords, to which there was no objection; but instead of agreeing to the amendments of the Lords in the original bill, it was thought better to bring in a new bill, which, while it adopted those amendments, did so without risking the repeal of the Pawnbrokers' Act. He would not make any motion on the bill as returned from the Lords until he should ascertain what would be the fate of this in the other House, If any
 1232
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the bill as sent from the Lords had repealed the usury laws on contracts with deposits of goods. Here was a case of contract without deposit of goods, to which the bill would not apply. The result would be, that a person who could obtain money on simple contract would derive no benefit from the bill, but the slightest deposit of goods would legalize the contract. There was no practical change in the bill as sent from the Lords but that which made it more reasonable and consistent with law.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : the effect of that would be, that a farmer having 100 quarters of grain, and his neighbour 100 bags of cotton, the former would be prevented from raising money on his 100 quarters of grain, while the holder of the cotton would have a monopoly of the money-market. But if they supposed two proprietors of 100 quarters of grain each, one the grower and the other the factor, the latter would be able to raise money on his stock, while the unfortunate farmer's would be useless in that respect. The chief object of this bill was to afford brief aid in raising money for short periods; another was to extend it to long engagements, such as bills of twelve months. He could assure his hon. Friend that if he had the misfortune to carry his amendment, he could not indict a greater blow on the class of persons he wished to serve.
 Captain Gordon  thought, that the facility of raising money on deposit of stock would be an advantage to the farmer, as it would frequently prevent the sacrifice of his stock at a ruinous loss.
 Mr. F. Baring  said that the proposition of the hon. Member (Mr. Cayley) would place the farmer in a worse condition than he was before.
 Lord Eliot , in explanation, begged to say that he did not mean to convey any idea that he thought it a trifle to give satisfaction to the people of Ireland. With respect to what he had said of the speeches published in the pamphlet, he had only to observe, that no one could be more willing than he had ever been to make allowance for an inconsiderate expression escaping from any one during the heat and excitement of a public meeting; but it was not on speeches of that description that he had been animadverting, it was upon reports of speeches revised and dispassionately correctly, and advisedly published.
 Lord Eliot  had last year taken a part in this measure with reluctance, because he had differed from those with whom he usually acted. He then regretted that what appeared to him to have been so favourable an opportunity for the settlement of this great question should have been allowed to escape, and he was
 1220 l l l. 1221 l l., l.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that seeing the wish of the House not to enter into any discussion on the present stage of the bill, he should not do so. The consideration of the clauses must require the attention of the House when the bill came into committee, and he should then be ready to discuss any clause which the right hon. Gentleman might think objectionable, either in principle or in manner of detail. The hon. and learned Member for Lis-
 1209
 Lord John Russell  moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Lower Canada Government Bill.
 Mr. C. Buller  thought it exceedingly desirable that the session should not close and the news of its close go out to the Canadas, without the people of those colonies being informed at the same time what were the opinions of the British Parliament upon the subject of their future government. He would not enter into the merits of any particular plan on this occasion; but he must say, that it was most important that the House and her Majesty's Government should tell the people of Canada what they were to expect. The adoption of any plan for the future government of the Canadas, however defective, would be less mischievous in its results to the people
 1200 1201 1202 1203 1204
 Mr. Cayley  said, his object was to protect the lower class of borrowers.
 Mr. Cayley  wished to propose a proviso to the first clause to this effect, "That nothing herein contained shall extend to produce or stock in the hands of the growers."
 Mr. Cayley  withdrew his amendment. Bill went through the Committee.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that seeing the late period of the Session at which this bill was brought forward, and considering that many Irish Members had left town in the hope (which he confessed he did not
 1214 l l 1215 l bonâ fide l l. l 1216 l. l. bonâ fide l. l. l 1217
 Mr. Shaw  proposed to add the following proviso at the end of the clause —" Provided always that nothing in this Act ontained shall be construed to dispense with the obligation of any person to make and subscribe the oath provided and enjoined by an Act made in the 10th year of the reign of his late Majesty King George 4th, entitled ' An Act for the Relief of his Majesty's Roman Catholic Subjects.'" In moving to add this proviso he would only observe that there was nothing new in the oath or in the obligation which it imposed, and that it was merely his intention to leave the law as it stood before.
 Mr. Darby  believed the bill would ultimately do mischief by leading to speculation, though it might afford present aid to individuals; but on the whole he thought it would be far from placing things on a sound footing.
 Sir George Sinclair  said, when her Majesty, on the 6th of February last, was pleased to express a wish that the state of her subjects in Upper Canada should form
 1196 1197
 Mr. Labouchere  could assure the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, that it was only after the most mature deliberation that Ministers had introduced the principle of giving the power of local taxation to the Governor-general. They had not introduced that principle into the bill of last year, and it was only after their experience of an actual stagnation having taken place in the industry of the Canadian community in consequence of the absence of this very power, that they had thought of introducing it. They were quite agreed that this was a power which should only be used with the greatest caution and discretion. But it should be remembered that at the present moment neither a road-bill nor a ferry-bill could be passed in Canada. Not one of those matters in which taxation was necessary for carrying on the common operations of society could now be conducted in Canada. The inconveniences which must arise from such a state of things in any country were so considerable that no Government would do its duty if they allowed it to continue from year to year without providing a remedy. With regard to an observation which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Middlesex upon the subject of a petition reflecting on the conduct of Sir J. Colborne and the troops in Canada, he could assure that hon. Member that the Government had no disposition whatever to shrink from the discussion of that subject. Upon the receipt of the petition in question, Government had referred to Sir J. Colborne for an explanation. The answer had but just arrived, and he must say, that nothing more completely satisfactory, as related to the conduct both of Sir J. Colborne and of the British troops, could possibly have been communicated to the Government. If the hon. Member felt any desire to have those despatches submitted to the House, and to have a
 1213
 Mr. Leader  was aware that this discussion was somewhat irregular, as the order of the day was for the second reading of the Canada Government Bill, and the House had got into a discussion upon the union of the provinces, a measure which had been entirely abandoned by the Government. He was afraid the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard was rather too Utopian in his ideas respecting the advantages to be derived from Lord Durham's report. If a good local government could be permanently established, it would be well, and it was a very desirable object. But the favourite plan of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard was the union of Upper and Lower Canada; and he must say, that he entirely disagreed both from the report and the hon. and learned Member, upon the propriety of such a union. In the first place, a vast majority of the population of Lower Canada were decidely opposed to that union, and a very great proportion of the people of Upper Canada was also opposed to it; indeed, he was not sure that a majority of the population of the two provinces did not oppose the union. In the next place, if the plan of union were effected, the French Canadians would be completely crushed. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, they must adopt the language, laws, and religion, too, he supposed, of the governing few. Why, that was precisely the case of Ireland, and the cause of the complaints which were heard from Ireland. It might be right, perhaps, according to the view of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the few English Protestants of Lower Canada should give laws to the many French Roman Catholics there; but then, upon that principle, all that the British Legislature had been doing in favour of the Irish Roman Catholics was wrong. It would be absurd to argue, that the Roman Catholics of Ireland, forming the majority there, should be in possession of rights as British subjects, and that the Roman Catholics of Canada, also forming the majority, should be denied those rights only because they were in Canada, and not in Ireland. The hon. and learned Gentleman thought, perhaps, that he would be con-
 1205 1206
 Mr. Hume  did not intend to enter into the merits of the question further than to express his deep regret that the Government had not expressed an intention immediately to re-establish the local government of Canada. It would have been most satisfactory to learn that the Government were prepared to follow out the recommendations of Lord Durham's report. If such were the case, public confidence would be immediately restored. He knew from persons in the colony that such a course would be satisfactory, but
 1198
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  had heard the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down with considerable regret. He had ventured to hope that the details of this measure would have been discussed without reference to topics which were calculated to excite angry feelings in the House or divert the attention of hon. Members from the more immediate and important points under consideration. He did not know what meeting the noble Lord referred to, he believed he must be correct in saying, that no Member of that House had taken a part in it; no reference had been made to it by his right hon. Friend, it had nothing to do with his right hon. Friend's amendment, and he really thought it would have been infinitely better if the noble Lord had abstained altogether from noticing it. The noble Lord had been greatly cheered by the noble Lord and hon. Members opposite, because he was of opinion that the difference between the two propositions was of a very trifling character. If so, he thought her Majesty's Government could not do better than give up the point in dispute. It
 1222 l. l. bonâ fide l. l. l. l., l. bonâ fide l. l. 1223 l., l l.
 Sir Charles Grey  felt it right that he should repeat on this occasion the opinion to which he had already given expression in that House, that in conceding to the Governor-general of Lower Canada the power of local taxation during the temporary suspension of the ordinary functions of the Legislative Assembly, for the purpose of constructing canals, railways, and other public works, her Majesty's Ministers should most carefully and anxiously inquire into all the circumstances of the case before they brought such a proposition forward. He besought them to remember that the people of Lower Canada had never before been subjected to local taxation, and were impressed with a notion that it was the intention of the
 1212
 Mr. M. Philips  said, that the, bill would.
 1233
 Sir R. H. Inglis  objected to the operation of the bill being restricted to sums above 10 l
 Sir R. H. Inglis  objected to going into the subject at that hour. The bill, in his opinion, was too extensive in its operation. It went to an almost total repeal of the usury laws.
 Sir R. Peel  said: Sir, I do not intend to protract this debate, because I know that such a course would only lead to a result which, for my own part, I am most anxious to avoid. This, I am aware, is a most unfavourable moment for us to take a division, but still, recollecting the general feeling of the House on the subject in the last Session, I do not mean to protract the debate on that account. Indeed, I feel I could not do so without the risk of introducing topics which are not only irrelevant, but which I am most anxious to avoid; and therefore it is, that I am content to risk a division, which I see must be unfavourable to me, rather than give rise to a discussion such as I have adverted to. My impression, however, was, Sir, that the Government did not mean to persevere with this measure during the present Session, and I was led to entertain this impression from the circumstance of its having been announced in the spring that there were three subjects
 1224 bonâ fide 1225 l. l l l l. l l., l
 Sir R. Peel  did not shrink from the responsibility which the right hon. Gentleman had imposed on him with regard to preventing the House from coming to a decision upon the second reading of the Canada Bill. On the contrary, he should rather say he rejoiced that the House did not come to a precipitate decision; Despatches had been received since that period from the Governor-general, which would have rendered such decision both immature and unwise.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that nothing could be more unwise or impolitic than now to attempt to persuade the House to decide upon the question of the union of the two provinces of Upper and Lower Canada. It was clear, with various opinions on the different sides of the House, it was impossible to get the assent of the House in the present session to the second reading of the bill for that object; at the same time that the House had not been called upon to pronounce an opinion upon the bill, and though he knew it roust have
 1207 1208
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the Government intended to adhere to the plan of adopting an 8 l 1218 l. l. l l. l l l l 1219
 Lord Morpeth  said, he entered into the objection made by the hon. Gentleman to the bill as it at present stood. He apprehended it to be that persons would have a right to vote who would not be rated for the borough rate, and he was prepared to alter the clause, so as to meet that objection.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in reply to the question of the right hon. Baronet, had to state that communications had been entered into by the Treasury, with the view of ascertaining whether, with reference to the public interests, they could act on the report and recommendations of the Committee. In consequence of the favourable nature of the answers received a bill had been prepared on the subject; but in the meantime he had discovered that a private bill had passed through the House, empowering the city of London to borrow money on the security of certain of the city
 1337
 Colonel Perceval , not seeing the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland in his place, begged to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question on a subject of considerable importance. It had reference to the distress at present existing in the county Mayo. He wished to know whether Government had it in contemplation to do anything, or had done anything to put an end to the existing distress in the county Mayo, described in a letter, which he held in his hand, from a highly respectable Catholic clergyman of Newport in that county?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  wished that the hon. and gallant Member had put the Government in possession of the letter he referred to beforehand, in order that his noble Friend might have been prepared to answer his question. He could not help observing to the hon. and gallant Gentleman, that the less there was of discussion about such cases in such a manner in that House the better for all parties. He doubted whether the course taken by the hon. and gallant Member might not have a tendency rather to increase than to diminish the distress he alluded to.
 Colonel Perceval  would be quite ready to take any course pointed out to him as likely to put an end to the dreadful distress he referred to. At the same time he scarcely thought he was open to the lecture he had received from the right hon. Gentleman. In a case of such crying distress he could not let a day pass without endeavouring to ascertain the intentions of Government. It was actually stated that in
 1338
 Mr. O'Connell  protested against the assumption by the right hon. Gentleman that any discussion either in or out of that House could increase the misery now existing on the western coast of Ireland, particularly in the County Kerry and County Mayo. The second crop of potatoes had failed, and it was of the utmost importance that something should be immediately done to alleviate the misery produced by this and other causes.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackon  could also speak to the misery existing on the south-western coast of Ireland, in Cork and Kerry particularly. He had received four letters from the neighbourhood of Bandon, which stated that in a district, where the population was 7,000, there were 3,000 persons bordering on starvation, and 1,000 in a state of destitution. A very small extent of relief on the part of the Government would save these unfortunate people from perishing.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  then rose and said—Sir, I cannot commence the observations which it is my duty to address to the House on the present occasion without very earnestly expressing a hope that the House will not omit to pay to the statement of the financial affairs of the country for the present year that attention which its high importance calls for; and I express that hope with the more confidence, because on many occasions during the present Session I have met from both sides of the House many very generous allowances and a great deal of indulgence. Sir, I wish to explain to the House my reasons for the course which I now propose to take. The resolution with which I am about to conclude is one undoubtedly of the utmost importance, as I shall endeavour to show, to some of the highest and best interests of the country. But it is also of much importance in a financial point of view; and for that reason I think it but just and right that the House should be made aware of
 1339 1340 l 1341 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1342 l. l., l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l. 1343 l l l. l. l. l., l. l l. l l. l., l. l., l. l., l., l. Robert Peel 1344 l. l l. l l l. l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l., 1345 l. l., l., l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1346 1347 l. l l. l l. l l. l. l. l l. l. l. l l. l. l. 1348 l. l., 1349 l l., l. l. l., l. l., l., l. 1350 l., l. l. l. 
 
 Estimate for 1839–40 1,101,300 
 Provided by Departments 594,700 
 Balance 506,000 
 Additional Estimates for works in Canada 100,000 
 Total Estimate for 1839–40 606,600 
 Balance of last year 447,000 
 £1,053,000 l. l 1351 Goulburn 1352 l l l l. l. l. 1353 l l l l l l. l. l.; l l l l l.; 1354 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. 1355 l., l. 1356 l. R. Peel s d l s. 1357 l. l. l l. l. 1358 l., 1359 1360 1361 1362 1363 1364 1365 "That it is expedient to reduce the postage on letters to one uniform rate of a penny postage, according to a certain amount of weight to be determined—that the Parliamentary privilege of franking should be abolished—and that official franking be strictly limited — the House pledging itself to make good any deficiency that may occur in the revenue from such reduction of the postage."
 Mr. Wolverley Attwood  said, if the right hon. Gentleman meant, by his resolution, to pledge the House to adopt any tax which he might think fit to propose, for the purpose of making good a deficiency caused by the failure of this plan, he apprehended that the House would not be disposed to give any such pledge. If, on the other hand, the right hon. Gentleman did not mean to push his resolution to that extent, then he apprehended that the resolution would be unavailing; because, although as individuals they might be ready to assent to the tax the right hon. Gentleman might propose, yet each one would raise objections to the particular tax proposed, and endeavour to bring forward some proposition of his own. With reference to the right hon. Gentleman's financial statement, he could not refrain from censuring it, as well as his declaration of his intention to allow the financial affairs of the country to remain in their present state. The right hon. Gentleman
 1404 l.; l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would at once state at what stage of the bill he proposed to offer his opposition to it; whether on the report of the resolution, or on the second reading of the bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would fix Friday next for the report, with the understanding that the discussion was then to be taken upon it. He was quite at a loss to understand the line of argument adopted by the right hon. Baronet. The effect of it, as far as he could see, was, to say, that until this country was in the situation of possessing a surplus revenue of 1,500,000 l., 1405 l l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated that at the time the motion of the hon. Gentleman was brought before the House on the subject of internal communication, the question of the postage duty had not been mooted or brought under consideration. This question was quite large enough for the attention of Parliament, without mixing it up with extrinsic matters with which it had no connection whatever. He had told the deputation of postmasters that waited on him that it was thought desirable that the question of the postage on letters should be taken up by the Government, and that their case could not be taken up at that time. The parties expressed their regret, but apparently acquiesed in his opinion, and that the postage question was much more pressing than their case.
 Mr. O'Connell  would not enter at all into what had just fallen from the hon. Member, as he wished to confine his attention to the question on which they were to vote. He heartily supported the resolution in both its branches. That part of it which altered the postage to a penny on each letter he thought would be one, of the most valuable legislative reliefs that had ever been given to the people of this country since he had had a seat in Parliament. It was impossible to exaggerate its importance. It would be of immense importance to his own countrymen. All parties in Ireland were agreed upon the propriety and necessity of it, and they would be surprised to find that it was to be made a party question of—that they were to be threatened into a division upon it, and that this day week was the day on which they were to have the struggle. The House ought not to shrink from it. It was impossible to deny that that was intended, and that all the petitions of the people were to be frittered away into a question of how many-Members could be whipped up on each side of the House. It would have been different if there had been a proposition made to separate the resolution by dividing it into two—into that part which reduced the postage, and that which gave the pledge. That would have been the better way for hon. Members to have proceeded who had any objection to this resolution at all, because then it would have been seen that both sides had been in favour of the reduction. That had not been done but the whole was to be opposed. Let hon. Members look at the advantage that this was calculated to afford. Could any man consider the question and not agree with him that all the Government should have required was to
 1409 1410 d d
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  regretted, that the right hon. Gentleman opposite had not brought forward a proposition to reduce the duty on post horses. He did not in this accuse the right hon. Gentleman of a breach of faith, but he thought the post-horse masters would consider it very unsatisfactory to be told by the Chancellor of the Exchequer that he refused to reduce that duty, but that he would give them a reduction in the Post-office. In reference to the Post-office, he was of opinion that the House and the country ought to have time to consider the nature of the pledge that was now submitted to them.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that Exchequer Bills were, he believed, stated in the first order, but not in the others. But it was stated that the Bank had a discretion which it might exercise to the exclusion of these securities. Now, by the bill which he had the honour of passing through Parliament on the usury laws, the Bank was at liberty, such being the existing law, to continue advances on Bills of Exchange. What had been done was the result of the law,
 1413
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the Order of the Day for bringing up the Report of the Bills of Exchange Bill, No. 2.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted the importance of the point to which the hon. Baronet had adverted, but he thought, that as the usury laws had been relaxed as far as bills of exchange at three months were concerned, it would be absurd now to leave out words which would render contracts sanctioned by the bill illegal. This was the effect which the proposition of the hon. Baronet would have. His opinion was, that the repeal of the usury laws would be an advantage; but it was expedient, at the same time, to preserve the exception contained in the bill for preventing imposition on the poor. He hoped the hon. Baronet would not persevere in his amendment, and that the House would agree to the report.
 Mr. Darby  supported the amendment, and said, that when they were legislating for the commercial world, they should not forget all other interests.
 Mr. Darby  complained of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin having accused Gentlemen on his side of the House of attempting to bring forward a party spirit to the consideration of this question, simply because they wished to have time to consider the effect of the proposition made to them by the right hon. Gentle-
 1411
 Mr. Goulburn  rose under circumstances of no inconsiderable difficulty, from the course which his right hon. Friend had thought it proper to pursue, in bringing forward upon a resolution which involved a great change in one branch of the finances of the country, the general financial statement of the year. If he were to address himself entirely to the resolution, he should certainly inform himself better as to what was the usual practice of the House, and, what, under ordinary circum-
 1366 1367 1368 l., 1369 l. l. l. l. l. "I trust," said he, "that the Committee will see that there is no improper risk in adopting the course which Mr. Canning pursued in 1827, but that on the contrary they will think I should heading improperly towards the House if, in order to meet a temporary evil, I were to ask either the House or the country to submit to the permanent imposition of any new tax." 1370 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. 1371 bonâ fide "If I had a surplus, I could deal with the Post-Office experiment, and could attempt other improvements, which I am afraid to hazard, lest I should increase the annual expenditure." 1372 l. 1373 l. l. 1374 l. l. l l. 1375
 Mr. Warburton  rejoiced that by the course adopted by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer this question had at length been submit-
 1396 1397 "He certainly did think, and always said, that the present rates of postage are a great deal too high, and so he believed had every Postmaster-General for many years considered them; too high for the interests of the public, and too high for the interests of the revenue." 1398 d., d d "I think the general feeling throughout the commercial community has not been so adverse to the mode of managing the Post-office, as to the legislation to which it is subjected; the rate of duties, which of course are laid by Act of Parliament, is not in the hands of the executive functionaries of the Post-office. That it is a total failure as a great commercial establishment—if I might so term it—is proved unquestionably to the whole community, by the fact of its being stationary in the amount of its profits and returns; we consider that the mode of conducting it has proved it to be a total failure — commercially speaking, the greatest failure in the country." 1399 1400 1401 1402 1403 s d s d
 Mr. Hume  said, the worthy Alderman knew nothing about it. He had a copy of the order, and the hon. Member was altogether wrong. The first notice on the 28th November, was to make advances on Bills of Exchange, Exchequer Bills, India-Bonds, and others, at 3½ per cent On the 28th February, the same notice was again given, and repeated on the 30th May, varying the rate of interest. The notice of the 20th June, which raised the interest to 5½ per cent., excluded Exchequer Bills. This was an instance of the way in which their affairs were managed.
 Mr. Hume  was perfectly innocent of intending any attack on his hon. Friend. At one of the observations that he had made on the subject, the House had laughed; and it was not immediately that he perceived what it laughed at. He was perfectly innocent, in the first instance, of having introduced the name of his hon. Friend; but he had merely stated, that
 1412
 Mr. Hume  had listened with very great attention to the observations which had just been made, and as he considered that the subject which they were discussing was of very great importance, he should address a few words to the House. He meant to speak first to the question which had been the last submitted to them, that which related to the Post-office, and which he thought ought to be regarded as separated from the question of revenue. It was, indeed, a very bold, he might say a very venturous act, to propose a change so important as that by which one million and a half of revenue was put at risk; but then the question was one of paramount importance. It was of the greatest importance to all classes in the country, and particularly to the poorer and the middle classes, much more, in his opinion, than to the
 1376 1377 l l. l. l 1378 l. 1379 No, no. l l. No, no 1380 l l. Member: Reid. 1381 1382 l
 Mr. Scholefield  said, that one hon. Member had remarked, that no tax could be proposed but some objection would be made to it. There was one tax which he trusted would meet with no opposition, and that was a property-tax. The way to relieve the poor was, for the rich to take the burden on their own shoulders.
 Mr. Wallace  did not mean to follow his hon. Friend in the opinions he had expressed. He wished to say a few words to them, as Chairman of the Committee on postage. In the first place, he begged to thank the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for having brought forward this question with perfect fairness towards all parties. It was quite true, that the report of the Committee was in favour of the twopenny rate, and he hoped that he might be excused when he briefly stated, why the Committee came to that resolution, although most sensible that the greater portion of the evidence was given in favour of the penny rate. They were restrained by the orders they had received, and they were obliged to keep within the view most strictly for which they had been appointed. The Members of the Committee voted in favour of an uniform rate. As Chairman of that Committee he had never been called upon to give but one vote, and the majority of the Committee were of opinion, that a twopenny rate of postage would be the best they could hope to attain. As to the pledge which the Chancellor of the Exchequer asked them to give, he had not experience enough in that House to decide whether that would be satisfactory or not; but looking at the class of petitioners who came before the House to require the grant of this boon of an universal penny post, he was sure that so numerous and respectable a class would never send representatives to that House who would not be ready to vindicate the pledge or understanding entered into upon this most important subject. The number of petitions had been adverted to, and he was free to admit, that there was on this as well as upon other subjects a considerable degree of agitation and anxiety on the part of those who promoted this plan, to stir up the feelings of those who accorded with them in opinion, to solicit this boon at the hands of Parliament. When a great commercial capital like London came forward, as it had done by constituting a postage committee, to endeavour to stir up the feelings of their countrymen in the remotest parts of the kingdom, it was no wonder that the sympathies of the whole nation were brought out to ask for this boon. With regard to the loss of revenue he was free to admit, and, indeed, he thought, that in the first year certainly there would be a great loss of revenue; but, from all the attention he had given
 1384 l l. 1385 l., 1386 1387
 Mr. Gillon  objected to the financial statement being brought forward at this late period of the Session, when hon. Members were pairing off, and there was not the means of obtaining the sense of the House upon the question of what taxes should be continued and what abolished. To bring forward the Budget at this advanced period of the Session was, in fact, a mere farce. He was glad that the hon. Member had now, for the first time, adopted the principle of shifting taxation. At the same time, however, he could have wished that the right hon. Gentleman had taken up the subject on a broader basis, and had done something to relieve the industrious classes from some
 1406
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  thought that nothing would be more prejudicial to the public interest than that a tax should be taken off one article and imposed on another, in the manner that had been suggested to-night. With respect to the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he must say, that he could not help questioning the policy of increasing the amount of the unfunded debt, as it was
 1407 l., 1408 Gazette l.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  wished to put the hon. Member for Kilkenny right, by telling him that the notice of the 20th of June had no reference to Exchequer Bills, and that the Bank for years had not been in the habit of advancing money on them.
 Sir J. R. Reid  was much astonished and surprised to hear that his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny had charged the directors of the Bank of England with a breach of faith, and he would tell his hon. Friend that if he knew them as well as he did, he would not say what he did of them. With regard to the course which they had pursued, he could only say, that if the same thing were to happen to-morrow, they would follow the system which they had adopted, in which they were fully justified. He sincerely regretted that he was not in the House when the hon. Member for Kilkenny made his observations, in order that he might have taken him up a little sharper than he could now do. [ Laughter.
 Sir J. R. Reid  concurred in every word which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, and said, that the Bank had had no communication with him whatever upon the subject. With respect to what fell from the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he must tell him that the particular securities he alluded to, were excluded in the notice of the Bank, inasmuch as it was out of the power of the Bank legally to make advances on them. He trusted, the Chancellor of the Exchequer's Bills of Exchange Bill would pass into a law, and he would take that opportunity of saying, that he was sure it would be received with favour by the commercial world.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that it involved a proposition which he feared the House was not aware it contained. He took blame to himself for not having taken the sense of the House upon it on a former occasion, and he should now, if the House
 1414 l. l
 Sir R. Inglis , seeing the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, begged to ask, in reference to the report of the Committee on Metropolitan Improvements, whether it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to introduce any bill this session founded on the recommendations of that report?
 Sir R. Peel  had no desire for a double discussion on the question. He never was disposed to carry on a mere vexatious opposition, after a question had been fairly decided upon, and he would therefore be prepared to take the discussion on the report, provided an early day was fixed for the purpose, and provided the bill was strictly in accordance with the resolution.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he should have thought it sufficient, if Government had maturely considered the details of this measure, had calculated the probable loss to the revenue, and had come forward to propose, in this acknowledged deficiency of the public revenue, some substitute to compensate the public. He should have thought that sufficient. So convinced was he of the moral and social advantages that would result from the removal of all restrictions on the free communication by
 1388 l. l 1389 l. l.,  No, no." l. l., l., 1390 l. l. 1391 l., "No, no." l. l., 1392 l. l., l. l 1393 l. "He considered the whole scheme of Mr. Hill as utterly fallacious; he thought so from the first moment he read the pamphlet of Mr. Hill; and his opinion of the plan was formed long before the evidence was given before the Committee. The plan appeared to him a most preposterous one, utterly unsupported by facts, and resting entirely on assumption. Every experiment in the way of reduction which had been made by the Post-office had shown its fallacy; for every reduction whatever led to a loss of revenue in the first instance. If the reduction be small, the revenue recovers itself; but if the rates were to be reduced to 1 d Chancellor of th Exchequer 1394 l 1395 l., l.; l., l. l., l., l., l. l., l.
 Mr. Colqhoun  said, the effect of the hon. Gentleman's amendment would be to deprive the children of Roman Catholics of all education in places where the schools were established on the principles of the established church.
 Lord Stanley  objected to giving the legislative powers which this clause conferred on the inspectors. They would have, if this clause were adopted, the power each of making such rules as they might think fit, and of enforcing those rules by penalties. No uniformity by such a plan could be secured, and he thought such extensive power was impolitic, while it was also unnecessary. The registers ought to be framed on one uniform plan, and not to be left subject to the conflicting regulations of the different inspectors. He should therefore propose, that after the words "occupier of every factory," the words "according to a form in the schedule to this act annexed" be inserted. He thought Parliament ought to define the form of the registers, and add a schedule to the bill, by which a uniform system would be secured, and if his amendment were agreed to, he should afterwards propose that such a schedule be added.
 Lord Stanley  wished to ask, if the hon. Gentleman had consulted the inspectors, whether it was their opinion that it was impossible to frame a schedule which would secure perfect uniformity? It was his intention to press his amendment to a division.
 Lord. J. ssell  was of opinion, that
 1419
 Lord Stanley  said, it was impossible to conceive that any information could be required which could not be obtained as well without this clause as with it. He thought the inspectors ought to examine with their own eyes, and that they ought not to reside in London, The information
 1420
 Lord Stanley  asked, were they to adapt all their details to a confessedly vicious system, and give powers to inspectors which they ought not to have, or were they to deprive future inspectors of powers which they ought to possess? The new system to be introduced must be introduced by Act of Parliament, and not by the power of the Government. But when was that to take place? Were they to give a pledge, as the House was asked last night, to do something at some future period unknown and undefined? He did not think the alterations which had been recommended would cause an increase of more than 3,000 l
 Mr. Langdale  moved the addition of the
 1417
 Mr. Langdale  said, that if this clause as it stood, were suffered to remain, it would be an outrage on all the principles of toleration recognized by the British constitution. How would any hon. Gentleman in that House, he being a Protestant, like to have his children compelled to receive instruction in the principles of the church of Rome? He felt it an imperative duty to oppose the clause, and he would take the sense of the Committee on it: if it were carried, he would divide the House on the bringing up of the report, and in every stage of the Bill he would oppose it, if this clause were retained in its present form. He would also endeavour to get the previous clause struck out.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, the amendments had been suggested to him by certain parties who took an interest in the Bill. He did not think they would greatly affect the principle of it, and he could only say, that if there had not been sufficient time for their consideration, it was not his fault—it was because they had not been submitted to him at an earlier period. If, however, the House should repudiate these amendments, he would go on with the Bill as it stood.
 Mr. F. Maule  thought no good would arise from preventing the inspectors from framing such rules as they might see necessary, as those rules would have to be sanctioned by an officer who would be responsible to Parliament. To secure uniformity it was provided that the inspectors should meet twice a-year to agree on such rules as in their opinion ought to be generally adopted.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, this clause was framed for the protection of the children in factories, and he was surprised that those who advocated the cause of the children were now silent. He could not consent to the amendment which had been proposed. The expense of furnishing information was at present paid by the mill-owners.
 Mr. F. Maule  observed, that his right hon. Friend had certainly laid down a satisfactory arrangement, but it would require several steps to be taken before that arrangement could be carried into effect. To do so, the House must be prepared to increase the expense—to sacrifice to a considerable extent existing interests; the present inspectors must be reduced to the level of those in the districts, or those in the district must be brought up to their level, and in order to get more respectable persons, the present sub-inspectors must be discharged at once. Would that be just, or could it be done without giving to those who would thus be dismissed some remuneration for the loss of the offices they at present held? Without inflicting great injustice the alteration could only be made gradually and by time.
 Mr. F. Maule  could not consent to withdraw the clauses. All he could do was to renew the promise made by his right hon. Friend, that in time such an arrangement as had been suggested should be effected.
 Lord Ashley  did not believe that under such a complicated system the children could be protected, unless very great powers were given to the inspectors. As to the power of the inspectors being abused, he did not think there was any good ground for such a supposition. He should vote for the clause.
 Lord Ashley  said, that at ten o'clock that morning, only two hours before the meeting of the House, he had received four large pages of amendments intended to be proposed by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Fox Maule.) He had not had time to read them, much less to consult any one upon them; for it had been his invariable rule to submit every clause of the bill to a legal adviser, but that was quite impossible with these amendments. The hon. Gentleman should recollect that the Government had had charge of this Bill five months, and they must have known whether they intended to propose it for the further consideration of the House. He had been under the impression that the Bill would not be further considered this Session. As the Government seemed to be at a loss to know one day before another what they would do, it was impossible for the House to anticipate any particular business. These amendments, he dared say, would affect very much the
 1416
 Lord Ashley  said, he did not mean to charge the present inspectors with any neglect of duty; he had heard nothing to induce him to do so. He should not object to the postponement of these clauses, but he thought the first question which the Committee should decide was, whether sub-inspectors should be appointed, as nearly all the remaining clauses of the bill related their duties and powers.
 Lord J. Russell  thought the children of Dissenters and Roman Catholics would have a perfect right to object to go to schools where the church catechism was taught.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that it had been thought desirable, to insure the better operation of the Factory Act, that schools should be established by the manufacturers themselves, to which the children might resort, and the object of the agreement proposed in the clause, was to insure such combinations of persons as would render the pecuniary support of the schools certain, care would be taken to have proper persons appointed as inspectors.
 Mr. P. Thomson  thought it would be very inconvenient, when the House called for any returns on this subject, if the inspectors had to go round to collect the information necessary to comply with the order of the House. If they were required to do so, the returns could not be made within anything like a reasonable time.
 Mr. P. Thomson  thought it was but proper that the individuals filling the office of inspectors should be of that character and condition as would secure to them the confidence both of the mill-owners and the public. He had not beard any complaints against either of
 1421 l l
 Mr. P. Thomson  thought he had been uncandidly dealt with. The cases alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman were not analogous to that of the sub-inspectors, because there had been no complaint against them, either of their having done nothing at all or of their having done wrong. It would be most unjust to turn them off without compensation.
 Mr. Harvey  said, the hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House gave too much credit to the Government for a disposition to economize. He believed that if the noble Lord would only press his suggestions a little further, her Majesty's Ministers would adopt them. In fact, they were only angling for the opinions of the Opposition, and endeavouring to fish out materials of which they could compose such a measure as they could carry without risk of defeat. But notwithstanding the imagined economy of the Government, if the great leader of the Opposition in the cause of economy were present (the hon. Member for Lincoln), he could anticipate the burning eloquence which would be drawn forth by the enormous proposition for having a general inspector in London, four resident inspectors at 1,000 l 1424 l l l l l l 1425 l l
 Mr. G. Wood  said, the power which the clause conferred on the inspectors might not be arbitrarily used, but he thought it was unwise for Parliament to give powers which were liable to be abused, and that too without any limitation.
 Mr. W. Patten  could not see any reason why the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman could not be carried into effect in the present bill. He was convinced such an arrangement would create confidence both among the manufacturers and the friends of the factory children. He (Mr. W. Patten) had heard great complaints made against the sub-inspectors, both from the masters and those interested in the children,and he was surprised those complaints had not reached her Majesty's Government.
 Mr. W. Patten  said, this clause, and the next, which referred to the appointment of sub-inspectors, were the most important in the whole bill. He had already stated, that it was his wish to get rid of the sub-inspectors altogether, and to have instead of them officers appointed of the same class and rank as the present inspectors, but he feared he should not be able to carry any proposition having that object through the Committee. He was therefore compelled to find out some other precaution to prevent any injustice being done under the increased powers conferred by the subsequent clauses of the bill; and he thought it would make the present inspectors more efficient than they were at present by obliging them to reside within their respective districts, and thus to compel them to have a more immediate superintendence over the sub-inspectors who were to carry the powers of the bill into effect. He should therefore move, after the words "providing that the present inspectors should hold their offices during her Majesty's pleasure," to insert the words "and so long as they shall reside within their respective districts."
 Mr. W. Patten  objected to the power given by the clause, by which the inspectors would be enabled to require the occupiers of mills or the owners to furnish such information as those inspectors might consider necessary, and as often as they might deem necessary. He thought it would be perfectly sufficient to give the inspectors the power of making extracts from the registers. He should, therefore, propose, that in line 30, after the word "power," the words "to make extracts from the registers at any time they may think proper," be added. It was unjust that the owners or occupiers of mills should be required to furnish information to the inspectors at their own expense when that information was required for public purposes. It was a power very liable to abuse, and he should therefore take the sense of the House on the limitation which his amendment would secure.
 Mr. Slaney  did not believe, that hon. Gentlemen, either on one side of the House or on the other, wished to force the consciences of those who differed from them, and therefore he thought it was possible to adjust this matter without going to a division. No child could be employed in a factory without producing a certificate of attendance at school from the inspector, who, according to the noble Lord's explanation, was not to meddle with the terms of the agreement upon which the schools were founded. But suppose the agreement was for a school on the national system, and there was no other school, what was to become of the child of the conscientious Dissenter, or of the Roman Catholic? The noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire knew that all the great towns of the county he represented, swarmed with poor Roman Catholics, and,
 1418
 Mr. M. Philips  thought this clause extremely arbitrary, as it gave a power to send for papers and documents, and if the House sanctioned such a measure, it would not be long before a power would be granted to send for persons also.
 Mr. M. Philips  was of opinion that there would be no difficulty in framing the clauses of the present bill in such a way as to meet the views of the House in favour of the suggestion of his right hon. Colleague (Mr. P. Thomson). With that view it would be better to withdraw the clause now under consideration, and that the Chairman should now report progress and ask leave to sit again, in order to enable the Government to consider the suggestion.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that if Parliament was to wait until the present officers died off, he feared that legislation on this subject would be postponed far beyond the favourite period of 1842. What were the vested interests of these sub-inspectors— why should there be a special case made in their favour, when the House had seen in what manner the vested interests of the Chief Justice of Malta, of the Attorney-general of Malta, and of Mr. Cumberland had been treated by her Majesty's Government? He hoped the Government would postpone these clauses in order to give consideration to the whole case of
 1423
 Sir J. Graham  concurred with his hon. Friend the Member for North Lancashire in thinking that the Committee ought now to come to a final conclusion on this matter. The view which had been opened by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. P. Thomson) was one that was fit to be now taken into consideration. With regard to the next clause, he objected to the words "any number of sub-inspectors;" he thought the number ought to be fixed by the Legislature. He was sure such an arrangement as that suggested by the right hon. Gentleman might be car-lied out in the present bill; it would be easy to give a controlling power to an inspector-general resident in London, to fix the districts of the three local inspectors, to define the number of sub-inspectors
 1422
 Sir J, Graham  objected to the clause, as interfering with the rights of persons to combine for the purposes of education under any religious forms, inasmuch as it would give an arbitrary power to the inspector with regard to the approval of the system agreed upon. For instance, the inspector might be a Dissenter, and the factory-owners Churchmen, and he would then naturally object to a system founded on their principles. He should, therefore, be disposed to strike out that portion of the clause which gave such arbitrary power to the inspectors.
 Sir J. Graham  said, he wished to rescue his side of the House, in the absence of the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln, their leader in the cause of economy, as he was designated by the hon. Member for Southwark, from the charge of wishing for another extravagant commission. The proposition did not emanate from his side of the House, but from the Government. It was the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade who had started the project. The only dispute appeared to be now, when the new plan of inspection was to be brought forward. If the proposal of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade were adopted he should propose the addition of a clause which he thought would meet the views of the hon. Member for Southwark — namely, that these inspectors should not be eligible to sit in Parliament.
 Sir J. Graham  moved that clauses 22 and 23 be postponed.
 Mr. William Williams  seconded the motion. He regretted that so little interest had been taken by the public upon a subject of so much importance. He knew of no question which deserved more attention from that House and the public. It was one deeply affecting the property of country, which was subject, at present, to such sudden fluctuations of value. At one period, every interest of the country was in a state of prosperity, the working classes were employed, and the manufacturers reaping profit; whilst at another period, and frequently, in a few months, adversity commenced, and went on advancing, until, at length, all interests felt it, and the country was in a state of depression, the working classes being thrown out of employment, or the wages of those who were in employment considerably reduced. In course of time, they saw the country again gradually restored to prosperity, but it so happened, that it never remained in the same state for two years together. There was evidently some great cause for those changes, and some remedy should be sought for them. He had paid great attention to the changes which had successively taken place, and his opinion was that they had been altogether occasioned by the mismanagement of its issues on the part of the Bank of England, and the great powers which had been given to the Bank. He thought the connection subsisting between the Exchequer and the Bank of England, was another cause of many of the aggravated evils of which the country complained. Those who recollected the stoppage of the Bank, would recollect the evils it produced, and that when the difficulties occasioned by that event were over, a great rise took place on account of increased issues. From that time until 1810 every thing went on well. At that time Bank notes became depreciated, and a committee was appointed to inquire into the cause of the depreciation. This committee recommended a return to
 38 l l 39 l l l l l l l 40 l 41
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he should occupy the attention of the House but a very short time, endeavouring to confine himself expressly to the particular question, in place of answering the very loose and discursive speech of the hon. Gentlemen who spoke last. The hon. Gentleman, whether he spoke in attack or defence of the Bank of England, seemed to him to be equally unfortunate; but more especially his defence was so extraordinary, that he was sure the gentlemen connected with the Bank of England would feel it to be their duty to repudiate that defence on the principle on which it was urged. But if the hon. Gentleman had not succeeded in his attempted defence of the Bank of England, he had, on the other hand, brought forward so many new charges against it, that no kind of inquiry would be consistent with his accusation, but a coroner's inquest. He could assure the House that he was not about to follow the hon. Gentleman through the whole of his speech; though there were some of the hon. Gentleman's statements which, if not contradicted at once, and contradicted in the most decisive manner, by those who had the means, might lead, not certainly in that House, but probably in foreign countries, where their debates might be read, to considerable misapprehension. The hon. Gentleman had declared, that the effect of the conduct of the Bank of England, about twenty years ago, was to reduce wages, and the prices of everything that was valuable in the country by the amount of 400 per cent. How the hon. Gentleman could make this out he could not tell, but certainly the conclusion was not founded on the facts which the hon. Gentleman brought forward, or on any facts whatever. Again, the hon. Gentleman took upon him to say, that the Bank could not possibly be possessed at the present of above 1,000,000 sovereigns. This was not only not supported by facts, but it was directly contrary to the
 48 49 50 51 52 l W. Williams, l l 53 l l l
 Lord John Russell  said,
 2 3
 Lord John Russell  said, the right hon. Gentleman had somewhat misunderstood the nature of the change that was intended. It was not to depend merely on the recognizances, but to be accomplished chiefly by application to the Lord-advocate. The proof sheets were to be sent to the Board, and the publication would proceed under such inspection as the Board might think proper to order. With respect to what the right hon. Baronet had stated relative to the short time to elapse before the expiration of the present patent, it so happened that some of the leading Members of the Church of Scotland were now in London on other matters connected with that Church, with whom a consultation might immediately take place, and their opinions on the subject be thus ascertained. A Committee of the General Assembly had signified their satisfaction with the former plan, and he believed they would also be satisfied with the present one, notwithstanding the opinion expressed by the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. E. Turner  was understood to support the motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, though he feared it was too late for inquiry this Session. He was nut aware till this evening, that so much injustice had been done by the Bank of England.
 Mr. Grote  wished to say a few words for the purpose of explaining why he could not support the motion for inquiry of his hon. Friend. He was one of those who
 56 57 per se, 58
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he would appeal to the great example of Lord Camden and of Charles James Fox, who had opposed the principle of perpetual copyright, With the same inflexible spirit with which he (Mr. Warburton) now asserted his determination to oppose the hon. and learned Gentleman's Bill, if it were ever again brought forward.
 Mr. Hume  said, that for some time past he had felt, and expressed, an anxiety to
 4 "To move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the pecuniary transactions of the Bank of England since the resumption of cash payments; and, particularly, to ascertain how far these transactions had produced the alarming crisis of the manufacturing, commercial, and financial affairs of the country in 1825–6, and in 1836–7; and also to inquire whether, as the Bank of England is at present constituted, there ever can be stability in the currency, or confidence in the commercial transactions of the country." 5 6 7 8 "1. That it is the duty of Parliament to provide a currency as a common and universal standard, by which the value of all property may be estimated between man and man; and, to render that standard as little variable as possible. "2. That the Bank of England has, in the exercise of the powers and privileges granted by the existing monopoly, deviated from the rules laid down by the select Committee in 1819, and violated the rules of banking (which have been admitted to be the best by its own directors); that it has produced by its operations on the currency great alterations in the value of the standard; by which the Bank has largely profited; and the community have greatly suffered, and been subjected to much distress. "3. That the commercial crisis in money matters in the years 1825–6, in 1836–7, and the difficulty in the money market at the present time, have all been occasioned by the Bank's irregular and excessive issues, and sudden and large reduction of paper money, by which depreciation at one time, and increased value at another time, have been produced, and have thereby occasioned great derangement in the commerce of the country. "4. That the property and industry of every man in the kingdom has been greatly affected by these excessive variations in the value of the standard of money; and that no man in business, whatever his prudence and circumspection, has hitherto been able, or can in future escape the dangers arising from the injudicious exercise of that power which the Bank possesses, of altering the value of the standard at the will and pleasure of the directors of the Bank." 9 l l l l l l l l l l l l 10 l l l l l l l l l l * l l l.; l * 11 l * * l l l l l * † See Appendix No. 94. 12 l l l l * l l l l l * 13 l l * l l l * l l l l l l l l l * † From Stamp-office Estimates. 14 l.; * l l l l l l l l l l * † See Appendix, No. 88. ‡ See Appendix, No, 65 and 76. 15 d. l s. d. s. s. d., l l s. d. s. l 
 
 In the last Quarter of 1824 the average circulation of the Bank of England was 20,344,972 
 The average deposits 10,621,100 
 Total £30,966,072 
 (And the stock of Bullion in Nov. 1824, was £11,448,000) 
 In the last Quarter of 1825 the average circulation of the Bank of England was 19,748,840 
 The average Deposits 7,533,700 
 Total £27,282,540 l l l * 16 l l l l 
 
 To form an opinion of the causes of these fluctuations between 1822 and 1825 in the value of property, it is necessary to know that the increase of the Bank of England circulation in 1824, as compared with that of 1822, was 11,170,597 
 The increase in 1825, as compared with 1824, was 7,764,470 
 Whilst the increase of the country banks in 1825, as compared with 1824, was 3,590,748 
 Making a total increase of Paper of £22,525,815 
 And if the Paper paid into the Bank for bullion, which in February, 1824, amounted to 13,810,060 
 be deducted, it will show an increase of 8,715,755 
 of Paper, whilst there was a decrease of gold of 13,810,060 
 
 (That the Bank had issued upwards of 28,000 of sovereigns in the five years 1821 to 1825,) and 
 on the 25 Feb., 1824, the bullion in the Bank was £13,782,700 
 on the 26 May 1824, the bullion had declined to 13,007,770 
 on the 26 Aug. 1824, the bullion had declined to 11,990,700 
 on the 26 Nov. 1824, the bullion had declined to 11,448,000 
 on the 26 Feb. 1825, the bullion had declined to 8,857,700 
 on the 26 May 1825, the bullion had declined to 6,456,300 
 on the 26 Aug. 1825, the bullion had declined to 3,683,00 l 17 l.; l l vice versa, 
 
 By comparing the amount of securities, February, 1823, with February, 1822, there is an increase of £2,346,650 
 Of Feb. 1824, with Feb. 1823, there is an increase of 552,270 
 Of Feb. 1825, with Feb. 1824, there is an increase of 6,079,330 
 Of Feb. 1826, with Feb. 1825, there is an increase of 7,967,250 
 Shewing a total increase of securities between Feb. 1822 & Feb. 1826 £16,945,500 18 
 
 Payments of the Dissentients to the reduction of the 4 Per Cents. to 3½ per Cent. 5,200,000 
 Payments on the Dead Weight Annuity (to July, 1825), 6,917,569 
 Advances by the Bank on Stock, &c. * 2,000,000 
 Advances on Mortgages, East India Company's & Def. Bills, 1,500,000 
 Increase of Bills discounted, 1,500,000 
 Total purchases by the Bank, £17,217,569 l l l l l l d. l s. d. d., l s. d. l l.; 1., l l * 19 l l 20 l l l l l l.: l l 21 
 
 Amount of Securities held by the Bank of England for eight years. 
 £. Bullion. 
 1826, Aug. 3 25,083,630 6,754,230 
 1827, Feb. 27 23,529,530 10,159,000 
 1828, Feb. 28 23,581,270 10,347,290 
 1829, Feb. 28 25,384,750 6,835,000 
 1830, Feb. 27 24,204,390 9,171,000 
 1831, Feb. 28 25,208,980 8,217,050 
 1832, Feb. 29 24,333,490 5,293,150 
 1833, Feb. 5 23,645,000 9,648,000 l l l.: l l.; l 22 Q. 1291–1306. "For the security of your banking operations, would you like to know a little more accurately, in point of time, what is the state of the assets and liabilities of the Bank of England?"—"No; I should think not. I do not know that that concerns us much. "You do not think that would concern you in your business as a banker?"—"No." "You do not regard it at all."—"No." "If you saw, upon a series of returns from the Bank of England, that the amount of bullion had been gradually lessening, and that there was a drain upon the resources of the Bank of England, do you conceive that that would be a matter to which it would be your duty to give attention, as a practical banker in the country?"—"We have not the charge of providing bullion to pay our notes; that charge rests with the Bank of England to provide bullion." "Does not the state of exchanges and the amount of gold in the hands of the Bank of England affect the country banks of this country?"—"I do not think it does in general; I think it only operates with a very few banking companies." Question 84. "It appears, by the accounts before the Committee, that for the last four years the amount of securities in the hands of the Bank varied very little. Do you consider it important in the management of the Bank to keep the securities at nearly the same amount?"—"As nearly as the same can be managed." "85. What is the reason why you think it necessary to keep the securities at the same amount?"—"Because the public are thereby enabled, without any forced action on
 23 l l.; l l.; l l l l l Question, 2589. "Which would be most advantageous to the persons engaged in commerce in London, the Bank selling their other securities in the market, or either raising the rate of discount, or refusing discounts altogether?—Taking for granted that they were compelled to take some severe step, I think the least disadvantageous would be to sell their other securities; I think the most injurious step would be to refuse the discount." 3591, "Would the sale of Exchequer Bills be calculated to produce fluctuation in the value of money you have spoken of?—A sale on the Part of the Bank of England of Exchequer Bills, of course has the effect of lessening the
 24 Question 170. "Do you think it desirable that the Bank should vary frequently their rate of interest with the market rate?—No, I think not, I am of opinion that with the object of keeping their securities fixed and steady in amount, it is not desirable frequently to vary the Bank's public rate of interest." 25 "The Governor and Company of the Bank of England do hereby give notice, that on and after the 29th instant they will be ready to receive applications for loans upon deposits of bills of exchange, Exchequer Bills, East India bonds, or other approved securities, such loans to be repaid on or before the 15th of July (six weeks), with interest at the rate of 4 per Cent. per annum, and to be for sums of not less than 2,000 l l l 26 "The Governor and Company of the Bank of England do hereby give notice, that they will make advances on stock, and other approved securities, such advances to be repaid on or before the 10th of September next, with interest, at the rate of 3½ per cent., and in sums of not less than 2,000 l 27 l l l l l 28 l l l l "The Governor and Company of the Bank of England do hereby give notice, that on and after the 28th and 31st instant, they will be ready to receive applications for loans on the deposits of approved bills of exchange, not having more than six months to run; such loans to be repaid on or before the 17th of July next, with interest, at the rate of 3½ per cent, per annum, and to be for sums not less than 2,000 l l l l 29 "If the Bank Directors should act upon a principle contrary to that upon which it is generally understood that the monetary system of the country should be conducted, they would find themselves placed in a situation which no man of respectability would wish to stand in." 
 
 Dec. 20, 1823, £17,575,000 
 Dec. 24, 1825, £25,611,000 Increase of Bank Notes and Bank Post Bills in 24 months.£8,036,000 
 June 16, 1827, £20,503,010 Decrease of Bank Notes in 18 months.£5,107,960 
 April 18, 1829, £20,750,600 Increase of Bank Notes in 22 months.£247,020 
 June 26, 1830, £19,978,550 Decrease of Bank Notes in 14 months.£771,510 
 Feb. 4, 1832, £19,156,990 Decrease of Bank Notes in 20 months.£821,560 l.; l 30 l l l l l l 
 
 RETURN OF THE CIRCULATION OF PRIVATE BANKS AND JOINT-STOCK RANKS, THREE MONTHS, ENDING— 
 Private Bank. Joint-Stock Bank. Total. 
 1833 Dec. 28 £8,836,803 £1,315,301 £10,152,104 
 1834 June 28 8,875,795 1,642,887 10,518,682 
 ——Dec. 28 8,537,655 2,122,173 10,659,828 
 1835 June 27 8,455,114 2,484,687 10,939,803 
 —— Dec. 26 8,334,863 2,799,551 11,134,414 
 1836 June 25 8,614,132 3,588,064 12,202,196 
 ——Dec. 31 7,753,500 4,258,197 12,011,697 
 1837 July 1 7,187,673 3,684,764 10,872,437 
 ——Dec. 30 7,043,470 3,826,665 10,870,135 
 1838 June 30 7,383,247 4,362,256 11,745,503 
 ——Dec. 31 7,599,942 4,625,546 12,225,488 
 1839 Mar. 30 7,642,104 4,617,363 12,259,457 
 
 The lowest, Dec. 28, 1833 £10,152,104 
 The highest, Mar. 30, 1839 £12,259,467 
 Increase £2,107,363 l l l 31 
 
 Amount of Bullion. 
 On Dec. 20, 1823 £14,142,000 Fluctuations. 
 Dec. 24, 1825 1,027,000 Decrease in 24 months. £13,115,000 
 June 16, 1827 10,677,000 Increase in 18 months. 9,650,000 
 April 18, 1829 6,104,000 Decrease in 22 months. 4,573,000 
 June 26, 1830 11,795,000 Increase in 14 months. 5,691,000 
 Feb. 4, 1832 5,088,000 Decrease in 20 months. 6,707,000 
 
 Bullion Average of three Months 
 On Dec. 28, 1833 £10,200,000 Variations. 
 March 25, 1835. 6,295,000 Decrease in 15 months. £3,905,000 
 Nov. 26, 1836 8,014,000 Increase in 12 months. 1,719,000 
 March 7,1837 4,048,000 Decrease in 12 months. 3,976,000 
 April 3, 1838 10,126,000 Increase in 13 months. 6,078,000 
 June 25. 1839 4,344,000 Decrease in 14 months. 5,782,000 
 
 EXCHEQUER BILLS, AVERAGE OF SIX MONTHS. 
 At Premium At Interest per diem. 
 1830, Jan 5 78 s. s. 2 d. d. 
 — July 5 81 s. s. 2 d d. 
 1831, Jan 5 26 s. s. 1½ d. 
 —July 5 10 s. s. 1½ d. 
 1832, Jan. 5 9 s. s. 1½ d. 
 —July 5 12 s. s. 1½ d. 
 1833, Jan. 5 40 s. s. 1½ d. 
 —July 5 53 s. s. 1½ d. 
 1834, Jan. 5 46 s. s. 1½ d. 
 —July 5 51 s. s. 1½ d. 
 1835, Jan. 5 40 s. s. 1½ d. 
 —July 6 31 s. s. 1½ d. 
 1836, Jan 5 15 s. s. 1½ d. 
 —July 5 15 s. s. s. 1½ d. 
 1837, Jan. 5 32 s. s 1½ d. 
 —July 5 32 s. s. 1½ d. 
 1838, Jan. 5 50 s. s. 1½ d. 
 —July 5 71 s. s. 2 d. 
 1839, Jan. 5 67 s. s. 2 d. 
 —June may be quoted 10 s. s. 1½ d. 32 
 
 May 1, 1832 £23,896,000 In 1832 the greatest fluctuation was £1,189,000 
 Dec. 4, — 22,707,000 
 April 2, 1833 24,289,000 Charter granted in 1833 697,000 
 Aug. 6, — 23,592,000 
 Oct. 1, — 24,244,000 
 March 4, 1834 25,547,000 1834 3,144,000 
 June 3, — 27,812,000 
 Sept. 23, — 28,691,000 
 Dec. 16, — 26,362,000 
 June 2, 1835 25,562,000 1835 3,099,000 
 Oct. 20, — 28,661,000 
 Jan. 12, 1836 31,954,000 1836 4,801,000 
 June 28, — 27,153,000 
 March 7, 1837 30,579,000 1837 7,852,000 
 Nov. 14, — 23,985,000 
 Dec. 12, 1837 22,727,000 
 Dec. 11, 1838 20,707,000 1838–9 3,127,000 
 June 25, 1839 23,934,000 
 
 The highest,—January 11, 1836, £31,954,000 
 The lowest,—December 11, 1838 20,707,000 
 The greatest difference £11,247,000 l l d. d. 33 l l l.; l.; l l 34 l l.; 
 
 £.  Bullion. 
 On the 11th Dec., 1838 The amount in Securities was:— 20,707,000 and  9,362,000 
 On the 8th Jan., do. 21,680,000 and  9,366,000 
 On the 5th Feb., do. 22,157,000 and  8,919,000 
 On the 5th March do. 22,767,000 and  8,106,000 
 On the 2nd April do. 22,987,000 and  7,073,000 
 On the 28th May do. 23,543,000 and  5,119,000 
 On the 25th June do. 23,934,000 and  4,344,000 35 36 37 "A select committee be appointed to inquire into the pecuniary transactions of the Bank of England since the resumption of cash payments; and, particularly to ascertain how far these transactions had produced the alarming crisis of the manufacturing, commercial, and financial, affairs of the country in 1825–6, and in 1836–7, and at the present time: and, also, to inquire whether, as the Bank of England is at present constituted, there ever can be stability in the currency, or confidence in the commercial transactions of the country."
 Mr. Wallace  would vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny with the greatest satisfaction, and the more so, because the hon. Member had, on two former occasions brought this subject under the consideration of the House, and because on each occasion he had been told, that the proper time was not come. It had been said, that the Bank directors were attacked, but such was not the case. They attacked the system of the Bank, and not the directors, and that attack he thought was not made without good grounds. The directors were, he believed, highly honourable individuals, but they were only men and merchants, and they must feel as men and merchants. The whole system, in his opinion, was bad, and it was high time to commence an investigation into its operation with the view to apply a remedy. If a committee were granted, he was sure the hon. Member for Kilkenny would, in the few weeks of the Session which remained, make out such a case as would create a strong feeling in the country, and force the Government to place the currency in a sound state. He should therefore give his vote in favour of inquiry.
 Mr. W. Attwood,  expressing, as he believed, the opinion entertained by the commercial community in general, entirely acquitted the Bank of England of the imputation of having, in any degree, been influenced by motives of private interest. The directors of the Bank of England were men chosen from amongst the most eminent of the mercantile body—were accustomed to the vicissitudes of trade, and knew its wants; they were, therefore, as capable as any men of properly directing a great establishment like that over which they presided; and he firmly and thoroughly believed, that they were not justly liable to the imputation which had been thrown out against them of being influenced or governed by motives of private interest. With reference to the present motion, although he was not prepared to support it, he must, nevertheless, say that he thought the House was indebted to the hon. Member for Kilkenny for giving them the opportunity of discussing so important a question at the present time. He must further say, that he thought no charge could properly be brought against the hon. Member, either as to the form of the motion itself, or to the period at which it was brought forward. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had observed, that an inquiry of the nature proposed would only tend to create mistrust, injury, and doubt, and to add to the doubt and despondency which now unfortunately hung over the commercial world. He could not assent to that proposition; he did not believe it to be accurate. If the period were one of considerable commercial embarrassment, it appeared to him that that fact rendered it fit for the House to take immediate cognizance of the circumstances which had led to that embarrassment, rather than allow the session to close without making
 59 "We have made very diligent inquiry as to the state of business amongst commercial men, bankers, bill-brokers, &c., and we find this to be the fact, that the Bank of England refuses to discount bills which come through the medium of Joint Stock Banks, or speculators in corn or cotton: these commodities, as well as colonial produce, were marked for reduction" 60 J. R. Reid: 61 62 "It may be very well for the Bank of England to publish their accounts, while they have a stock of bullion amounting to ten millions—being one-third of their liabilities; but for my part, I should be very sorry to be the Governor of the Bank of England if I had to publish an account of the Bank when the stock was below five millions, because I should then be under very great apprehensions of stopping payment; unless I had in my pocket at the time an order of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to stop my issuing any more bullion when that period arrived." 63
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  had heard with great satisfaction the observations of his hon. Friend, in nearly the whole of which he concurred; but he wished to say a few words as to an error into which he thought his hon. Friend had fallen. His hon. Friend had attributed the various scenes of distress which had at different times occurred in this country to the conduct of the Bank of England, and that the Bank might have prevented them. In his opinion prevention was impossible under the circumstances. The fact was, that the Bank of England had all along been merely an engine in the
 42 43 Laughter. Easthope l 44 l 45 beau ideal l l 46 l l l l l l l l l l 47
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  said, that he had conferred with those whose assistance he had received in the conduct of this measure; and they had concurred with him in opinion, that, considering the opposition with which the bill was threatened, and the state of the public business at this late period of the session, however anxious they were to proceed with it, they could not entertain any reasonable hope of carrying the Bill through the House of Commons at such a period, and asking the House of Lords to proceed to legislate upon it. It was, therefore, his (Mr. Sergeant Talfourd's) intention not to subject the House to any further expense of time or labour, with reference to this subject, during the course of the present session. He was at the same time desirous that the position of the promoters of the bill should be distinctly understood—that they were only detained in their advocacy, but not defeated. This was the third Session during which the bill was before the House; and, however, much discussed its provisions had been, there had always been a majority in favour of its main principle. He at the same time entertained no doubt that the opposition which he had met had proceeded from strictly conscientious motives. He should be ready to renew his struggle with the hon. Member for Bridport, at the earliest possible period of the next session. The hon. and learned Gentleman concluded by moving that the further consideration of the Copyright Bill be postponed to that day three months.
 Sir James Graham  was much obliged to the noble Lord for the information he had given him on the former occasion, which he believed had given satisfaction to the Established Church of Scotland, and he thought it unfortunate that any notice of alteration should have been postponed to this late period, as the patent expired on the 17th of this month, so that there were only nine days to make objections. He was not prepared to state any opinion on the change that was proposed. He did not think, however, that the securities would be efficient. Spurious editions would be printed, and the penalty forfeited under the recognizances, although a punishment to the party would be no security to the public. He had little doubt that the alterations would meet with great objections on the part of the Established Church in Scotland.
 Mr. Easthope  would only occupy for a short period the time of the House, after its attention had been so long devoted to the discussion of the motion of his hon. Friend, and after the natural impatience which had been expressed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to proceed to the other business of the night: still, he could not suffer this question to pass without making one or two observations upon it. He should make no profession of eulogising the directors of the Bank, nor should he follow the example of the hon. Member for Birmingham in arraigning them as the authors of the sufferings of individuals, of the most extreme and aggravated character that it was possible to describe. The hon. Member had thought proper to notice a smile into which he was betrayed. If that hon. Gentleman was not conscious of any other cause that could excite a smile than the woes and sufferings which he depicted and deplored, then he must, at once, own his disinclination to supply him with what he should certainly have thought had been a more obvious and intelligible cause. He deeply lamented, that a question which ought to be regarded apart from all personal considerations should almost always be mixed up, not only with expressions of great apprehension on the part of the directors, but with feelings of injustice towards them, and with imputations upon them that were most undeserved. So far as his knowledge of those gentlemen went, he did not think there could be found in the city of London a like number of men who would more honestly discharge the duties that might devolve upon them. For his own part, the objections he entertained were not against the personal conduct of the Bank directors, but against the system of the Bank. To that system he was most determinedly opposed. He considered the directors to be placed in a most anomalous situation. He hoped it would not be long before he should have the satisfaction of hearing, that even the Bank directors themselves refused to continue in a position in which it was impossible that they could discharge their duty to the Bank proprietors with justice, and their duty to the public with safety. He had always considered that the Bank directors ought to be only bankers; that they might be able to do their duty to the proprietors by all fair means, and realise the greatest profits they could by fidelity and diligence.
 66 67 68
 Sir J. Reid  said, four hours and a-half had been consumed in this debate, and he had never passed that space of time more uncomfortably. Many complaints had been made against the Bank of England; he regretted that those complaints were so general, but considering where they arose, he really felt less on the occasion than he should have felt had the complaints arisen from other sources. He was quite sure the House would not wish him to go into any details at that time of the night, because he should in all probability have to go back to a very distant period. But at the same time, as complaints were made with reference to the circulation of the Bank, and as an hon. Member had stated it to be the cause of the distress which existed, he had got an account of the circulation of the Bank of England, being the average of six years from 1833 to 1839, ending at the 5th of April in each year, which he would read to the House; and it was a curious circumstance to observe the closeness with which various amounts approached each other, On the 4th of April, 1833, the
 54 l.; l l.; l.; l.; l l l l l l l Hear, hear! 55 l.;
 Sir R. Peel  thought that the best course would be, to leave this question to be settled by the circumstances of each particular case. There appeared to him to be no reason for printing, as a general rule, the voluminous evidence taken before election committees, but at the same time, if any body suggested that the evidence might afford important precedents, or if there was any suspicion of abuse, a motion might be made for printing the evidence. He recollected that he had proposed last year to print the evidence in all cases, but he was deterred from that course by the consideration of the enormous expense which it would entail without any proportionate advantage. He did not take the same view of this measure as his noble Friend. Nothing could have been more fair than his noble Friend's opposition to the measure, or more able than the manner in which he had conducted that opposition. At the same time, he had a strong impression that the bill would be successful. When Members were placed in a judicial position, he had good reasons for believing,  à priori,
 Mr. Clay  hoped that the House would indulge him while he stated the reason why he could not support the motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. He disclaimed attributing misconduct to the Bank of England, but there could be no doubt, he thought, in the mind of any man that, in their character of directors of a great commercial body, very great mistakes had been committed by them in the management of the currency. To recur, for instance, to one great period, he could not conceive that there was now any doubt that they exceedingly misunderstood their own position and the aspect of affairs in the year 1824, and the early part of 1825. Again, in the year 1836, he thought they did not, at a sufficiently early period, take warning of the signs of the times. They also, in the same year, committed a great oversight in those fixed bargains which they made with the joint-stock banks. He was the more inclined to notice that point, because it was one to which he himself, in moving for a committee on joint-stock banks in 1836 particularly called the attention of the House. So, again, during the past and present year, the existence of the demand of foreign corn was not sufficiently regarded by them. But it was because he thought these matters were already sufficiently known, that he considered the motion of his hon. Friend unnecessary, especially when he had told them that it was not his intention to call any witnesses. He thought the errors of the Bank of England were attributable to the inconsistent functions it had to discharge. It was impossible that one and the same body
 64
 Viscount Mahon  said, that he did not rise to raise any discussion upon this subject. He had already fully stated his opinions upon it, and while he admitted that the bill was a great practical improvement, and felt bound to express what he was sure was the general sense of the House, that the country was greatly indebted to his right hon. Friend for the pains and attention which he had bestowed upon the bill, still he was obliged to say, that any measure which did not remove the trial of election petitions from the jurisdiction of that House would not, in his opinion, be successful. He owned, he hoped, that if his anticipations were well founded, those gentlemen who had taken fan interest in this measure would exert themselves hereafter to secure what ought to be their prominent object—an impartial and just decision. His object, however, in rising, was to call the attention of the House to a part of the subject which had not been noticed in the discussions which had taken place, and upon which the opinion of the House should, he thought, be expressed. The question to which he referred was, whether the evidence taken before an election committee ought or ought not to be printed. Now he thought, that if the House would consider what was the present practice with regard to this point, they would find it was very far from satisfactory. The general rule was, that the evidence should not be printed, but whenever one party thought that a decision of a committee was unfair, a motion was made that the evidence should be printed. As a matter of course, no opposition was offered, and, therefore, sometimes the evidence was printed, and sometimes not. He thought, therefore, that it was very desirable the practice should not be kept in this anomalous state, and he was sure, that if the Speaker would throw out any suggestion to the House, it would be received with all the respect which was due to his high character and eminent station. He declined offering any suggestion himself, but he should be glad to hear and to consider any that might be thrown out.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Department, relative to that portion of the Mexican territory, calling themselves the state of Texas. He wished to know whether anything had been done by the Government for the purpose of recognising the independence of that state?
 Captain Wood  wished to know whether this force was to continue at Birmingham. If this system was to be pursued, of sending the metropolitan police force throughout the country, it would be a considerable tax on the rate-payers here.
 Lord John Russell  said, that in almost every case he had found the local authorities ready to contribute the greater part, if not the entire expenses of the police force when sent down. He would also mention, that he had thought it necessary this year to ask for an additional sum of money for the police force, so that there might be a body of police always disposable, without ever diminishing the force necessary for the metropolis.
 Lord John Russell  said,
 84 "Whereas the altered state of society consequent on the total abolition by law of slavery in the island of Jamaica, requires the enactment of further laws to take effect within the said island: and whereas the House of General Assembly of the said island, by an address to the Governor thereof, on the 30th day of October, 1838, stated, that for the reasons therein set forth, they had come to the determination to abstain from the exercise of any legislative functions;" "And whereas, in consequence of the determination aforesaid, several temporary laws of the said island have been suffered to expire,
 85
 Lord John Russell  said, that the question put by the right hon. Baronet, rendered it necessary for him to state the circumstances of the case, and what had passed, with reference to the sending a portion of the police force to Birmingham. What had occurred in the present case was not very different from what had taken place in various parts of the country within the last few years. The Mayor of Birmingham, accompanied by two other magistrates of the town, came to London expressly to make application to the Home-office for assistance. They informed him, that assemblies of a tumultuous and dangerous nature were in the habit of being held every night in that place, and that they had not a sufficient police force to arrest the persons guilty of disorder, or to preserve the peace. They also stated, that the corporation lately formed in their town had already adopted measures with the view of organizing such a police force; but as this had not yet been done, they were unwilling to call upon the military to act, without having an adequate civil force there. In compliance with their request, a force of sixty men, belonging to the police force of London, was directed to be sent down to Birmingham along with the applicants. At the same time, on his asking them whether they were satisfied with the military force stationed there, he received an answer assuring him, that all the parties there were perfectly satisfied with that force, and that they placed perfect reliance on the co-operation of the military officer commanding this force. It appeared afterwards, that, on arriving at Birmingham, the magistrates thought proper immediately to direct the arrest of certain persons then tumultuously assembled at a place called the Bull-ring. He would not give any opinion as to the law upon this case; for with regard to this case, as also with respect to the particular courses of conduct pursued in riots or tumults on
 87 88
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he was very glad that his hon. Friend, the Member for Wolverhampton, had brought this subject under the consideration of the House. But he concluded that his hon. Friend from his not proposing any specific plan to the House, as he would be bound to do the moment they went into Committee—and as he was bound to state, before the House
 104 105 s. s. s. s. s. 106 l. l. l. 107
 Mr. Villiers  expressed his satisfaction at hearing what had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade. It was pleasing to him and to those of his friends who entertained similar views with respect to the timber duties to ascertain that the opinions of the right hon. Gentleman remained unchanged, and to find him as zealous a supporter of that important cause now, which he had advocated with so much usefulness and ability at a former period. He would admit, that there was great truth in what had been said with respect to the taste and feelings of that House. There was too little taste in that House for matters which affected the commercial interests of the great masses of the population. But, notwithstanding that disinclination upon the part of the House, he had felt it his duty to bring forward a subject of so much importance to the public, and he felt confident that the discussions upon it would awaken the public mind to their true interests. The public were closely watching their proceedings, and if they only read the discussions in that House they would be sufficient to demonstrate
 108
 Mr. C. P. Villiers  said, Sir, in seeking to draw the attention of the House to the subject of which I have given notice, I am aware of the disadvantage under which I labour. I know the distaste which this House has to subjects of this nature, and I know how difficult it is at this season to draw serious attention to any matter of public importance. Still, Sir, as I consider this a very important subject, and one (reminded as I am constantly by those who placed me here) of the mischievous operations upon industry and commerce of similar restrictions, I do feel it a duty to submit this subject to the attention of this Parliament; and, Sir, I must claim for this subject some appropriateness in point of season, since we are at this moment not only about to review the relations in which we stand to those provinces in America, which are connected with the subject, in the hope of placing them upon a footing more suited to the interests of both countries, but that we are
 89 s. s. 90 "North American timber is more soft, less durable, and every description of it more liable to the dry-rot than timber from the north of Europe. Red pine however, which bears a small proportion to the other description of timber, and the greater part of which, though imported from Canada, is the produce of the United States, is distinguished from the white pine by greater durability. On the whole it is stated by one of the Commissioners of his Majesty's navy most distinguished for practical knowledge, experience, and skill, that the Canada timber, both oak and fir, does not possess, for the purpose of shipbuilding, more than half the durability of wood of the same description the produce of the north of Europe."
 Mr. Labouchere  was aware that there were one or two allusions of the kind—for instance, that connected with the seminary at Montreal. The state of the law in the province was not at present that no money could, beyond a certain period, be allowed to be raised for this or other purposes of a similar kind. This had more than once been stated as a ground for changing the law. Sir John Colborne had made some observations on this matter; but he could not tell, without reference to the dispatches, whether or not, he had made any suggestions for an immediate legislative amendment of this difficulty.
 Mr. Labouchere,  who replied in a very indistinct tone of voice, stated, that he could not, at the moment, give an answer to the question of the right hon. Baronet; but, if he wished the dispatches of Sir John Colborne to be looked into, with reference to this subject, he would do so, and give him an answer in a short time. He was unable to give an answer at the present moment.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had formerly been favourable to the alteration of these duties, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would now express the opinion which be held upon the subject. His hon. Friend (Mr. Alderman Thompson) had told them that a free trade in timber would be no advantage, and he had also said, that if they were to get their supply of timber from the north of Europe, it would lead to a rise in the price. At present the difference was not less than from 20 s. s. s. l. 103
 Mr. Milnes  wished to put a question to the noble Lord on a
 81
 Mr. Milnes  had another question to ask with regard to the state of our relations with Persia. He understood that our ambassador had withdrawn from the Persian court, and he begged to know whether the noble Lord was aware of any satisfaction having been given on that question.
 Mr. Copeland,  the most extensive builder and timber merchant in London, has also said in evidence before that Committee:
 "That the timber from the Baltic in general speaking of Norway, Russian, Prussian, and Swedish, is of a very superior quality to that imported from America, the bulk of which is very inferior in quality, much softer in its nature, not so durable, and very liable to dry-rot." 91 l. s.; 1.; l. l., s. l. 92 
 
 "Statement of the Number of Families dwelling in Cellars; and also of the Number of Families dwelling in Single Rooms, in Stockport.—Extracted from the Rate-book, June, 1839: 
 1839: REMARKS. 
 Families dwelling in cellars in Stockport  1,253 These cellars are mostly without drains, cold, damp, and very dark. The poor families who occupy them are subject to fevers, and often lose their health and cheerfulness, whereby they are unable to get a living. There are instances of two families, and lodgers besides, being huddled together in one cellar. 
 Families dwelling in single rooms in Stockport.  131 These rooms are seldom more than 12 feet square, and in that space there are (in some instances) two families and two lodgers, that is, 10 or 12 persons in one room." 
 Families  1,384 93 "This population also is much better lodged than our labouring and middle classes, even in the south of Scotland. The dwelling-houses of the meanest labourers are divided into several apartments, have wooden floors, and a sufficient number of good windows; also, some kind of outhouse for cattle and lumber. Every man, indeed, seems, like Robinson Crusoe, to have put up a separate house for everything he possesses. Whoever has observed the condition of our labouring population, will admit the influence of good habitations upon the moral habits of a people. The natives of New Zealand have dwellings more suited to the feelings and decencies of civilised life, than the peasantry of a great proportion of Great Britain and Ireland, who live in dark, one-room hovels, in which not only household comfort and cleanliness are out of the question, but the proper separation of the sexes can scarcely be maintained. It is from the operation of our timber duties, that the working-class in Great Britain, and particularly in Scotland and Ireland, is so wretchedly lodged—an evil by which the whole community suffers. The timber of America is not adapted, either in size, strength, durability, or price for the woodwork of small houses, for the beams, roof timbers, or other parts in which there is strain or exposure, it is considered totally unfit; and were it stronger, the waste in reducing its logs to the proper dimensions prevents the application of it to such small buildings. The duty upon the kind of wood alone suitable for the poor man's habitation, which is the small-sized logs, deals, and battens of Norway, or the Baltic coasts, renders it impossible for the lower, or even the middle classes to lodge themselves comfortably or even decently. It affects the price not merely of the good building material which these countries could furnish at a cost lower than the duty now levied upon it, but it raises our own wood, which no prudent man can use in any work that is intended to last for twenty years. If our labouring classes understood their own interests, they would find that the timber duties press more heavily upon their comfort and well-being than even the corn-laws." 94 95 1. 96 1. 97 l. 98 l. 99 100
 Mr. Alderman Thompson : although he admired the speech of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, differed entirely from the conclusions at which he had arrived. He was opposed in principle to the object which the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had in view, and he thought, that a subject of such vast importance ought not to have been brought forward at that late period of the Session, The hon. Member had done little more than go over the old ground of complaint against the shipping interest, but it should be borne in mind, that that interest was second to none in this country, The hon. Member had stated, that the sacrifice in
 101 l. l. l. l. 102
 Captain Pechell  said, he had received a communication from Scotland, which induced him to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, a question. It appeared that a fleet of French fishing boats had appeared on the Scotch coasts, which was likely to produce considerable injury to the Scotch fisheries. He wished to know if anything had been done with the French Government relative to their encroachments on the fisheries of this country; and also whether any directions had been given by the Admiralty to send a vessel of war to protect the Scotch fishing boats.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that it appeared by some of the papers on the Table, that improvements would be prevented being carried into effect unless something of the kind that he had alluded to was done: and he wished to know whether these suggested improvements were specified. In one instance, he recollected, that this was the case, namely, in connection with the seminary at Montreal. Could the right hon. Gentleman inform him whether others were mentioned?
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to
 83
 Sir R. Peel  was glad that the noble Lord had concurred in these amendments, which made the bill very much resemble the form which he proposed should be adopted. He rose, however, more for the purpose of expressing a sentiment which he believed would meet with the general concurrence of the House, namely, expressing his earnest hope that the House of Assembly of Jamaica would justify the confidence which was now placed in it by the general sense of Parliament, and that they would realise the expectations that were entertained of them by their friends, and that they would not only resume their functions, but that they would proceed in that spirit and temper which would at the same time raise the Assembly of Jamaica in public estimation in this country, and show to the world that the intention of suspending the constitution of that island, and putting a stop to their legislative functions for a time, were not justified by the result. Such was the advice which he would give the Assembly of Jamaica, and he trusted that it would be received by that body in the sense and spirit in which it was given, for he was sure that they could pursue no other course so well calculated to raise and establish them in public opinion.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he wished to know from the noble Lord, what was the number of the men belonging to the metropolitan police force which had been sent down to Birmingham, in consequence of the riots in that place? In asking this question, he would earnestly recommend to the noble Lord, that the utmost caution should be used in sending bodies of the metropolitan police against mobs in
 86
 Viscount Mahon  wished to address a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, relative to the correspondence which had been lately laid on the Table of that House on the civil war of Spain. The noble Lord has been employed in the very praiseworthy object of endeavouring to alleviate the barbarities of that war; but he wished to ask the noble Lord whether he intended to take those steps which must obviously and most effectually promote the completion of that desirable aim—whether it were intended to extend the provisions of the Elliot treaty to the whole of Spain? He need not remind the noble Lord that the original scope of that convention embraced the whole of Spain, but, in consequence of certain circumstances then existing, it was restricted to the two Basque provinces. Now, considering the great advantages derived from the treaty, even with that restriction, he would ask the noble Lord whether it was not desirable that it should be extended throughout the whole country? The second question which he wished to put to the noble Lord was, with regard to the overtures which it appeared had been made by this Government to that of Russia from the despatches of the Marquess of Clanricarde, and laid on the Table of the House. Did the noble Lord intend to take any steps on that subject? The Marquess of Clanricarde writes to Lord Palmerston, in his despatch of February 15, 1839:—
 "Count Nesselrode said, that when we addressed to the Russian Government an application for interference to stop the barbarous mode of warfare which had been adopted, the idea naturally suggested itself, why not carry the interference a step further, and make the war itself to cease? but that he had not thought of any means of overcoming the many difficulties which were opposed to the carrying out of that suggestion. Count Nesselrode proceeded to explain that his idea was, that if five plenipotentiaries were assembled, perhaps they might devise a plan for the pacification of Spain. 'We,' said his Excellency, 'have just now, after eight years' labour achieved the settlement of a question in Belgium replete with complicated difficulties, and why should we despair of finding the solution of those which Spain presents?'" 80
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, first, with regard to the Elliot convention, that it was true that it was limited to the Basque provinces and to the armies engaged in those provinces; but when application was made to have it extended to the whole of the country, the Spanish government objected for this reason—there were in Spain, owing to the suspension of the legal powers consequent upon the civil war, a great number of robbers and marauders roving about committing all manner of outrages; and if this convention were extended through all Spain, when any of them might he apprehended for robbery and murder, they would plead that they were Carlists, and claim the privilege of being exchanged as prisoners of war; therefore, they could not, consistently with the security of the people of Spain, extend this convention indiscriminately to all the provinces of that country. But one result of the application of the English Government to Russia was this, that it had led to an understanding between Cabrera and the constitutionalist general opposed to him, by which means were to be taken to provide for the safety of soldiers taken prisoners in war. He could assure the noble Lord, that no measures would be omitted to endeavour to humanize the war of Spain as far as it was possible. With regard to the second question, the noble Lord would see from the papers on the Table of the House, that the idea of some common action on the part of the Five Powers was suggested by Count Nesselrode, who undertook to use his influence with Spain for the purpose of putting an end to those atrocious crimes which were dishonourable to the character of men. The English Government expressed a wish to know the means which Russia contemplated, and stated that England and France could not enter into any scheme inconsistent with the quadruple treaty. In reply, Count Nesselrode said, that the Russian Government was not prepared with any particular scheme, and there the matter had dropped.
 Viscount Palmerston  could only answer that the Persian ambassador was told at Constantinople, Vienna, and Paris, that be could not be received in this country, until the government of Persia had given the satisfaction which had been asked for. The Persian ambassador, considering, however, that he might facilitate the business by going forward to London, had arrived here; but as the ambassador had not shown that satisfaction had been
 82
 Viscount Palmerston  had great satisfaction in answering, that the English and French Governments perfectly understood each other, and were acting in concert with regard to these important matters. The French Government had signified their intention to send one officer to Alexandria, and another to Constantinople, for the purpose of endeavouring to effect a suspension of hostilities; and not only Great Britain and France, but also Russia, Prussia, and Austria, had all evinced a strong and sincere desire to bring about some arrangement, by which Europe might avoid the present danger with which she was threatened by the hostilities between Turkey and Egypt.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, every one knew that negotiations had been going on between this country and France relative to the oyster fisheries at Jersey, and correspondence had also taken place as regarded the fisheries along the coasts of the two countries. The negotiations were far advanced, and he trusted, that at no distant period they would be brought to a satisfactory conclusion.
 Viscount Palmerston  stated, that an application had been made to the Government in the early part of the last year by persons from Texas, for the purpose of knowing whether the Government were prepared to acknowledge the independence of Texas. The answer given to that application was, that the general principle of the Government was to acknowledge every state that was  de facto
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the noble Lord if her Majesty's Government would con-
 109
 Lord John Russell  considered that such a course would be very inconvenient, and could not accede to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished, before the Speaker left the chair, to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department on the subject of the conduct of the metropolitan police at Birmingham on Monday night. He wished to know whether the accounts which appeared in the morning papers, with respect to a riot at Birmingham, were true or not? In one of the papers the statement was as follows:—
 "Yesterday evening the military were again called out. There was a great assemblage of the people in the different parts of the town, but no indication of a riot until the police made their appearance. At seven o'clock a troop of the Royal Irish Dragoons galloped down Moor-street, and was quartered in the Wool-pack, an inn adjoining the Public-office. At eight o'clock the Rifles on duty at the public office turned out, and formed an advanced guard, leaving open spaces in their ranks, for
 110
 Lord J. Russell  entirely disbelieved that account. He had received letters from the Mayor of Birmingham, stating the circumstances which occurred entirely different from the statement read by the hon. Member, and saying that the town was now nearly restored to its ordinary state of quiet, and that business was now going on as usual.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  inquired whether the noble Lord had received any contradiction to the statement he had read?
 Lord J. Russell  replied, that he of course had not received any contradiction, because there had not been time for the authorities in Birmingham to have seen the account which had been read. The general account he had received made no mention of any circumstances at all resembling those read by the hon. Member. He had received accounts from the Mayor of Birmingham stating, that on Monday evening great numbers of persons, armed with bludgeons, had collected in certain parts of the town of Birmingham, and had endeavoured to get the colliers of the neighbourhood to come into the town and join them, and that these bodies of persons the police had been called upon to disperse, and had succeeded in that object.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the provisions proposed in this clause, allowing the Lords of the Treasury at their discretion to make additional grants for the police out of the consolidated fund. If the reasons that were urged against this force were strong before, they had become infinitely more so since the proceedings that had recently occurred at Birmingham. That House should have a constitutional check over the police, and, therefore, the amount of public money granted should be in the shape of an annual vote, when their conduct might be canvassed. He should oppose this clause being added to the bill. In former times the Secretary of State directed the military to aid the civil power in any place where such aid was wanted. But this was a new power, serving the purposes of the military. Under these circumstances it was but fair and reasonable that that House should have an opportunity of annually canvassing the vote for their payment. It never was contemplated that they should be sent scouring through the country—not one word was said about that while the bill was going through the House for the formation of the force. He saw no difference between a red coat and a blue one. He therefore moved, that the 13th clause be omitted.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he could not admit the justice of the assimilation of the hon. Gentleman of the police force with the military. He thought it far better to call in the civil power on occasions like the one referred to, than to call in the yeomanry, as in the riots of 1819 at Manchester.
 Mr. Hume  said, he did not object to the amount, but to the principle. The vote should be an annual one, for as this force was used as a military force, it was proper that it should be under the annual control of Parliament.
 Mr. William Williams  said, that this clause gave powers which he would not confer on the magistrates. It provided that every person who assaulted or resisted the police constables in the execution and discharge of their duty should be liable to a penalty of 10 l.,
 Lord John Russell  said, that as the whole of the clauses except the money clauses had been already discussed, he must object to their arguing them over again.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that as the object of this clause was to raise the salaries of the commissioners of the police from 800 l. l., l. 114
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he certainly should vote against the motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Finsbury, because he thought it a good principle that those who served the public well should be well paid. He thought that it could not be denied by any one, that the commissioners of police had done their duty admirably, and in a manner which exhibited not only good temper, but sound and wise discretion. He hoped, therefore, the House would adopt the clause.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he entirely approved of the proposal of her Majesty's Government, for increasing the salaries of the commissioners of police, and he thought it could be no reflection on the economy of the Government thus to reward meritorious public services. Indeed he considered this to be true economy. When he brought forward the measure establishing the new police, immediately after he had carried the Emancipation Bill, it encountered much opposition, but at the time he felt convinced that the value of such a force would be admitted in the course of three or four years. His anticipations in this respect had been fully realised; and although there might be a few parish officers who would like to have the matter in their own hands, sure he was, that the respectable part of the community had no wish to return to the old miserable system of parish constables. He was satisfied that if such a proposition were now made it would be deemed monstrous by the thinking part of the public; and he would only say, in addition, that no men could exercise the patronage which they possessed in a more fair and exemplary way than the commissioners had done, as far as his knowledge extended. At the time he brought forward the measure, he knew that the salaries he proposed were too low for duties which would press so heavily on the health and strength of those who had to discharge them; but he then stated that, as it was a mere experiment, he should leave it to a future Government, whether he were connected with it or not, to make the necessary increase which ought to be given. He believed that even a whisper on the subject had never come from either of the commissioners; but their for bear-
 115
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that he was one of those who had objected to the introduction of the new police; but from the experience which they had had of that force the was bound to say, that he was entirely satisfied with it. He thought the proposition of the Government a reasonable one, and therefore it should have his support.
 Lord J. Russell  was sure there could be but one opinion with respect to the manner in which the police commissioners had discharged their duty, which was most efficiently; and he could confirm what the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had stated, that no suggestion for an increase in their salaries had ever been made by either of them.
 Colonel Sibthorp  agreed that the commissioners of police were inadequately paid. He thought they were fully entitled to 1,200 l. l.
 Mr. Fox Maule  did not think, that comparing the pay of the police with the wages of other persons in an equal class at other employments, it was too low notwithstanding he valued their exertions very highly.
 Mr. Pryme  was in favour of an augmentation of the salaries of the police generally. It was not fair to compare them with persons at other employments. Theirs was an office of trust, and it ought to be paid in such a way as would place them above temptation.
 Mr. Williams  would support the amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He considered the condition of the finances as well as the condition of the people, who paid taxes for the maintenance of those officers, was not such as to warrant an increase in the salaries of any person. Let the House look at the condition of the working classes. Many could not get employment, and those who did had to work fourteen or fifteen hours day for 8 s. s. 116
 Mr. Wakley  thought it was the duty of the House to be just to the public before it was liberal to individuals. He was not surprised at the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) supporting an increase in the salaries of the commissioners, for he believed, that if the proposition had been to allow them 2,000 l. 117
 Sir R. Peel  felt bound to say, that nothing of the sort had ever been held out to the commissioners by him.
 Mr. Sanford  observed, that the present Government had proposed a reduction in the salaries of all the great officers of the State.
 Mr. Hume  having been made a member of the Police Committee, would state that every Member in that committee had recommended an increase in the salaries of the commissioners. He concurred in that recommendation, and was prepared to support the vote. The present bill would greatly augment their duties, and the proposition now made, was only a fair remuneration.
 Mr. Fielden  would support the hon. Member for Finsbury. The House would recollect, that an inquiry was instituted by the House on the motion of his late colleague (Mr. Cobbett) out of which the police did not come very clear, for it was fully established, that the man named Popay had been employed as a spy. The system adopted by the commissioners of sending spies throughout the country was only calculated to create anarchy and confusion. The police had been established for the purpose of coercing the people, and he trusted the hon. Member for Finsbury would persevere in dividing the House on the proposition now made.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that not one shred of the case at first stated by the late Member for Oldham (Mr. Cobbett) was supported before the committee to which the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had alluded. On the contrary, it had utterly failed. The report of that committee stated, that the conduct of the commissioners was highly honourable, and that the men deserved the approbation of the public.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, it was extremely objectionable to the licensed victuallers, inasmuch as it prohibited publicans supplying persons with liquor under fourteen years of age.
 Mr. F. Maule  said the proposed amendments had been assented to by the parties interested.
 Mr. Harvey  had presented a petition from the chairman and committee of the licensed victuallers, in which they par-
 119
 Mr. Aglionby  said, if the word "apparently" was introduced, the word "knowingly" must be struck out.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that he had the honour of dining the other day with 3,000 licensed victuallers—who, one and all, requested him to endeavour to get the present clause expunged. Why not go to twenty-one at once, instead of drawing the line of culpability between the ages fourteen and sixteen.
 Mr. Law  hoped that all dubious words would be left out of this clause, otherwise the most indecorous scenes would take place at police-offices, on the question arising whether a girl were fourteen or sixteen years old; police constables would be controverting each other's opinions as to what age the girls' appearance suggested.
 Mr. Wakley  said, the only way to be certain on such a point was not to employ uninitiated persons. The magistrates must employ doctors.
 Mr. Fox Maule , on clause 54, which regulates the assembling of certain persons in public-houses, said it would be a great improvement. It was copied from the Liverpool Police Act.
 Mr. Estcourt  thought the clause not necessary.
 Mr. Hawes  thought the risk of losing their licences would keep the publicans under restriction enough.
 Mr. Law  said, that there was not an infringement upon the liberty of the subject which might not be extracted from some local act.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that he thought, in the clause prohibiting "unlawful" games, there should be some definition of what were "unlawful" games. Was cribbage unlawful?
 Mr. Wakley  asked why, poor boys should be liable, for betting or gaming, with a tossing of halfpence, &c. in the streets, to a penalty of five shillings. The police might, in fact, under this bill, seize persons betting at Tattersall's, or on a race course.
 Mr. F. Maule  would inquire, whether the hon. Member were not aware, how prejudicial bad habits proved, and that boys who began with tossing halfpence on a tomb-stone, generally ended badly?
 The Solicitor-General  said, these acts were now unlawful.
 Mr. Clay  doubted, whether the House were not becoming rather pharisaical in legislation, and whether it was not straining at a gnat and swallowing a camel, to subject a poor man to a penalty of five shillings for tossing up, after a hard day's work, who shall pay for a pint of beer. He could not agree to the clause, unless it were limited to gaming with any instrument or table, &c.
 The Solicitor-General  said, the clause would then be useless, for it would only be the law as it now stood.
 Colonel Wood  said, it would be ridiculous, that a boy "tossing up" inside a house should do it with impunity, while a boy tossing up outside a house should be liable to a penalty of five shillings.
 Mr. C. Buller  objected to giving the police so vague a power, to interfere with a practice generally, in the custom of the country, considered harmless. Take, for instance, the case of betting on a division—I meet a Tory in St. James's-street—he says, "We shall have a majority on the Education question;" "I'll bet you so-and-so you'll not." Why, a police officer might carry us both to the magistrates. Or, suppose betting in this House—it is a public house—and there is scarcely a great division in which I don't pick up a shilling or two in an honest bet; yet under the words "or betting," this would be unlawful.
 Mr. Fox Maule  would have no objection to leave out the words "or betting."
 Mr. Hume  thought, if it were considered advisable to remedy the vices of the age, it should be made the subject of a general bill; but he objected to making that a
 122
 Mr. Wakley  would suggest the propriety of expunging the clause altogether, as there was no difference in principle between that and the present law. He had seen the metropolitan police on Epsom Downs, where gaming tables were in active operation, and the police did not interfere.
 Mr. Fox Maule : They had no power.
 Mr. Law  thought it desirable, if the Vagrant Act were defective, that it should be amended; but he did not see why a measure of such a stringent nature should be introduced, applicable solely to the metropolitan districts.
 Mr. E. Turner  understood it was proposed by this clause, to make it illegal to toss pence; he wished to know, if it would be illegal to play quoits?
 Mr. G. Wood  said, playing at quoits was a game of skill, but chuck-farthing was a game of hazard.
 Mr. Hume  said, that it really was a clause intended to put down chuck-farthing, and it ought to be so stated. Was it tit that the House should spend three hours in legislating about chuck-farthing.
 Mr. C. Buller  could not judge whether the intention of the clause was to put down obstructions to the public thoroughfare, or to put down gambling. What was the meaning of the Solicitor-General's argument? At Harrow-on-the-Green, by the road-side, the rustics were in the habit of playing quoits—now if they betted a pot of porter on the game it would be against the law according to the Solicitor-General's opinion. Although his hon. Friend, on his suggesting that the words on betting would effect genteel people, had very properly consented to withdraw them—yet he agreed with the Learned Recorder of London that the clause should be expunged.
 Colonel Wood  proposed the insertion of the words "within the weekly Bills of Mortality, or in the streets of any town." His object was to confine the operation of the clause to the town, and prevent it extending to the rural districts.
 Mr. F. Maule  objected to the insertion of the words.
 Colonel Wood  reminded the hon. Member that he had given a pledge when the Bill was last before the House that he would devise means to prevent the clause extending to the rural districts.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, the hon. and gallant Member was mistaken. His promise referred to the 68th. and not to the 66th clause. He wished to explain to the Committee that the clause contained 19 sections, every one of which was at present the law of the land; but his object was to bring them all together, so that it could be ascertained at once what was the police law, instead of being obliged to refer to various Acts of Parliament.
 Mr. Alderman Humphery  objected to Colonel Wood's amendment, as by confining the operation of the clause to the Bills of Mortality it would exclude Greenwich, Woolwich, Bromley, and other large places.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  thought, that the latter provision or punishment should be made a separate clause. As the law stood, the punishment of the vice of drunkenness was most disproportionate between the poorer and richer classes. A fine was inflicted which fell very heavy on the former, but was hardly felt by the latter. If the fine of five shillings was imposed on the poor man for this offence, the rich man should be fined 5 l. "And be it further provided, for the sake of good example, and for the prevention of the vice of drunkenness, that any person moving in what are called the higher grades or walks of society found drunk in any street or public place shall, if it shall seem expedient to the magistrate before whom the complaint is made, be committed, with or without hard labour, for a period not exceeding seven days to the House of Correction, instead of inflicting any pecuniary fine."
 Mr. F. Maule  did not wish to draw any distinction between the vice of drunkenness in the higher or lower classes. Under these circumstances, he had proposed that in lieu of a fine, a magistrate might send an offender to prison when guilty of riotous and indecent conduct while drunk, instead of inflicting a pecuniary penalty. He did not think that it would be very dangerous to ask the House to consent to this principle.
 Mr. Darby  objected to the clause, because he thought it was improper to have "drunkenness" mixed up in the same clause with "indecent behaviour," which was a much more serious offence. As the clause stood, both were to be visited with
 127
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that the two offences had been placed in the same clause at the suggestion of the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool. He, however, saw no objection to the separation proposed by the hon. Member, and he should therefore omit that part of the clause which related to the crime of exposing the person, and introduce a distinct clause upon the subject. It should, however, be recollected that this was an indictable offence, and there was no intention to interfere with that mode of proceeding.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that he felt it to be his duty to oppose the clause. It would render the law with regard to drunkenness different in the metropolis and the other parts of the country. He thought such a course anything but expedient, and for that reason he must move the rejection of the clause.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, this subject had received the utmost attention from her Majesty's Government. It was not their intention to send out what was termed an envoy; but a Gentleman who was well acquainted with all the details of the subject would go out for the purpose of assisting the British authority there to obtain such changes as would be considered beneficial to the interests of this country.
 Mr. Baines  wished to know whether her Majesty's Government had directed their attention to the approaching meeting of the German states at Berlin, on the Germanic commercial treaty, and whether it was their intention to send an envoy to watch over the interests of this country, and to endeavour to make arrangements which would be more advantageous to our commerce than those now in existence?
 Lord Stanley  must confess that the insertion of the proviso did not alter or remove his objections to the principle of this clause, and as he had not previously troubled the House with any observations on the question, he trusted they would indulge him with their attention for a few minutes. The House would recollect, that, when they passed the Act of last year, making temporary provision for the government of Lower Canada, establishing extraordinary powers in the Governor-general and Special Council, that measure was agreed to by the House, because those powers were sought for under circumstances of the most imminent and urgent necessity—that necessity being pleaded as the reason for giving powers of the most despotic and arbitrary character ever conferred by the Imperial Parliament upon any individual—a power which was only sought to be justified by the impending danger, and as the only means which could be devised for putting a
 200 l. l, l. l. 201 202 lods-et-ventes, 203 204 "That the Governor and Special Council be empowered to impose taxes for purposes altogether local, such as the maintenance of a police force, the lighting and paving of streets, and for otherwise improving towns and villages, and to increase or reduce local rates already existing; and further to pass ordinances for the undermentioned purposes, viz., for the inspection of produce, and to impose rates of inspection; for authorising companies or individuals to construct railroads, canals, bridges, and other internal communications, and to impose tolls and rates of transport thereon; for the borrowing of money for internal improvements on the security of the revenues of the province." l. 205
 Mr. J. Hume's  objection was, to any of these men being vested with power to pass permanent laws, and when the hon. Member, the under-secretary for the colonies, spoke of responsibility, he would ask if he did not know, that for many years, the Special Council of Lower Canada had laughed to scorn the whole Canadian people. If they were to have a despotism,
 197
 Lord John Russell  said it was quite true, as the right hon. Baronet had said, that he had admitted that there was nothing in what had fallen from the hon. Baronet to which he could fairly object, yet at the same time he must observe that he had never understood the right hon. Baronet to object to the clause now under consideration. The right hon. Baronet in his speech, on stating the course he should take, commenced with the third clause, and he therefore concluded (and nothing afterwards fell from him to the contrary) that he had no objection to offer to the second clause. This was in his mind a very important clause—one on which the absolute existence of the Government in Canada depended, and in which the property of the people of the colony was essentially mixed up. The noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire had adverted in his own peculiar way to two different views of this question, taken by the Government on the one hand, and himself and those on his side of the House on the other hand. His views differed somewhat from those of the noble Lord. His opinion was, that they were, in this bill, asking for all the powers that would tend to the benefit of the Canadian people. The noble Lord on the other hand, and those who acted with him, thought only of the maintenance of the Government of the province without taking into consideration what were the measures most calculated to be generally advantageous and to lead to good legislation.
 214
 Lord J. Russell  said, that a change in the present system of tenure was admitted by all parties to be indispensable, and the only dispute was, what should be the nature of the alteration. He thought the present opportunity an advantageous one for adjusting these disputes, but at the same time, there was some force in the objection to trusting so great a power to the Governor in Council; he should, therefore, propose an amendment to the effect, that no law or ordinance of the Governor in Council, with regard to tenures, should be of any force or effect until it was confirmed by an Act of the Imperial Parliament.
 Lord J. Russell , if it had been proposed to go on with the bill for the union of the provinces during the present Session, they should also have to extend the duration of the provisional government to January 1842.
 Lord John Russell  did not think it necessary to detain the House with many arguments against the proposition of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Leeds, seconded, as it was, by the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Westminster. The right hon. and learned Gentleman, who had since risen had pointed out the disadvantages of that proposition. That right hon. and learned Gentleman had attended long to the state of Canada; he was intimately acquainted with it, and he was warmly attached to the maintenance of British authority in that province, and to the maintenance of the rights of the Crown, and at the same time entertained every re-
 173 174 175 176 177 178
 Lord J. Russell  was ready to admit, if this bill were continued from year to year till all the vacancies had occurred, that the reduction of the cathedral stalls and chapters would be ultimately accomplished in the manner proposed by the general measure. He therefore quite agreed with the hon. Baronet, that that was a sufficient objection against the frequent renewals of this bill, but not to justify an opposition to it during the present year. As far as he understood, there were not serious objections to the main object of the larger bill, because that object was not to suspend or abolish cathedral stalls and prebendaries, but to secure the raising of funds in the least objectionable form, for the increase of religious instruction in the doctrines of the Established Church. With that object he believed that the clergy and the two universities were disposed to concur. The question was, how were they to accomplish it? The matter had been submitted to the Archbishop of Canterbury and to the Church Commissioners, and various proposals had been discussed, suggested by persons connected with cathedral chapters, who all united in one wish to have the differences settled. It was on that ground, therefore, and not owing to any doubts which he entertained himself, that he thought the bill for carrying out the report of the Church Commissioners should lay over for another year. Under that view he trusted that the hon. Baronet would give his consent to the second reading of this bill.
 Lord John Russell  having moved the Order of the Day for going into a Committee of the whole House on the Lower Canada Government Bill,
 Lord J. Russell  having moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Cathedral and Ecclesiastical Preferments Bill,
 Mr. C. Buller  said, he did not know what object would be gained in discussing particular clauses before the bill was in Committee. He must say, however, that he was inclined very much to concur in the objections to the 4th clause. The subject of a change of tenure greatly affected the properties of the people of Lower Canada; there was also a national feeling on this subject, and unfortunately it had been one of the most recent subjects of dispute between the two races. If they gave the Governor and Special Council the power of legislating on these tenures, it would excite a justifiable alarm that this Special Council, composed of their political opponents, would exercise their power to introduce a general change which had been so long resisted. The noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department said, that the power was given in order to meet the exigency that occurred in the district of Montreal; but two or three such exigencies might arise in other parts of the province as that which had long existed in Montreal, namely, a case where the property was burthened with a disputed title, and the Government made the change of tenure contingent upon a recognition of the title. He could not concur with the right hon. Baronet in his objections to the third clause, nor participate in his alarms as to the increase of taxation which it would occasion. The right hon. Baronet's observations upon this subject appeared to him exceedingly sound and appropriate as a general theory applied to colonial government, and they were applicable to any colony except Lower Canada; but there they would be inapplicable on account of the enormous surface of the province. The amount of taxation at present was about 140,000 l., l. 180 181 182 183 184 185 186
 Mr. C. Buller  thought, that the House should have been very cautious in abolishing a representative government in Canada, and making a despotism in its place; but when they proceeded to make a responsible government there, they should also take care to make it an efficient government. It appeared, from what had taken place, that Gentlemen opposite were willing to consent to abolish a representative government, but they made it a matter with their consciences by doing all in their power to cripple the government established in its place. He asked whether it were possible to lay aside party considerations on a subject of this kind, and think only of the interests of the colony, and how they could establish there a safe and well-organised system for its future government, and which would be responsible for the administration of affairs. He thought, that in the bill formerly proposed, the noble Lord only recommended an emasculated kind of government. He did not think that it would be expedient, under the present bill, to let the Government interfere either with property or religion; but he thought in all other matters the powers of legislating might be left to it. The question simply reduced itself to this—whether there should be a legislature with the power of making permanent laws that might be repealed by the future popular legislature, or whether that legislature should only have the power to make temporary laws which that future popular legislature might continue. Now, if the future legislature were really popular and efficient, he could not conceive that there existed any very great difference in practice between the two propositions. But by the plan proposed, of making every law temporary and to expire at the meeting of the new legislature, the result would be produced of leaving to that new legislature the settlement of almost all the questions that were likely to excite strong party feeling. Hon. Gentlemen who were for temporary laws were not, perhaps, aware of the evils that had already arisen out of the practice that had prevailed in Lower Canada of making merely temporary acts, in order that on the expiry of those acts terms might be made with the Government prior to their being renewed. Year after year
 212
 Mr. C. Buller  had not referred to the
 213
 Mr. C. Buller  was at a loss to conceive how he had brought upon himself the lecture of the right hon. Baronet.
 Sir E. Sugden  supported the amendment. It was most unfair to take advantage of a suspension of the constitution to sacrifice one of the contending parties to the other.
 Sir E. Sugden  had given his best assistance to Government on the questions which had arisen out of the state of Canada, and was most ready to go all justifiable lengths in supporting the measures they might bring forward for the adjustment of the differences unfortunately prevailing in that colony. He stood now on the ground he had originally taken, and from that he would not depart. The noble Lord opposite, at the beginning of the last Session, had told the House, that he was not prepared to sacrifice the French Canadians to British interests, and the right hon. Baronet, the Under-Secretary for the Colonies, had deprecated the passing of any laws intended to be permanent, which could be regarded by them as oppressive or vexatious. He entirely agreed with these sentiments, and though he was perfectly prepared to join in giving every assistance to Government in introducing improvements in the internal regulations of the colony, yet he would not consent to grant any powers to the Governor and Council which should be directed against the interests of the French Canadians. He had considered with that view the provisions of the present bill, and he must say, that they appeared to him calculated to rouse the worst feelings of the French Canadians, and excite those very disputes between the two races of inhabitants which it had been hitherto thought desirable to repress. Lord Durham, in the report which he had made, had expressed an opinion, whether wisely or not, that it was impossible to prevent a contest between the two races. He agreed with that noble Lord, that, if authority were reposed in the French Canadians, they would abuse it; all their proceedings satisfied him that that was to be expected, and it was quite clear, that the British Cana-
 190 191 192
 Mr. Labouchere  rose, not for the purpose of entering the very wide and general discussion into which the House had that evening diverged, but rather for the purpose of expressing a hope that the House would not longer delay the business of the evening, but would proceed at once to the consideration of the details of the bill in Committee. He should confine the very few words he had to say to observations of a general nature on the bill itself, and on the objects which it was intended to accomplish. He had heard with pleasure that no essential difference in principle as to this bill existed in the House. There seemed to be a general impression that it was our duty to provide without delay for an object, which, in Lower Canada, was of urgent necessity—namely, that while we were anxious to mitigate the exercise of arbitrary Government there, by taking every precaution against the abuse of it, we should still not impose a practical grievance upon that colony by disabling it from legislating on pacificatory principles,
 187 l., l. 188 189
 Mr. Labouchere  would confine his observations as much as possible to the subject immediately before the House. The noble Lord had entirely misconceived the financial state of the province of Lower Canada, and the amount of the funds at the disposal of the Government for the purposes of local improvement, and the maintenance of the peace of the province by the means of a well-organised police. His noble Friend had said, that there was
 206 l.; l. l., l. l. 207 "I have no doubt they are immediately required to impress a conviction of the efficacy of the law in parts of this province where justice has been hitherto imperfectly administered, to repair, in some degree, the evils under which the loyal inhabitants have long laboured, and relieve all classes from burthens which they have reluctantly borne, and to deprive the disaffected of that influence which acknowledged grievances, speciously exaggerated, have unhappily obtained for them."
 Mr. Labouchere  believed, in point of fact, that there were more than twenty persons in the Council of Sir John Colborne at present, and it was certainly desirable that their number should be specified. He wished to make no reflections on former special councils, but he thought by increasing their number, they should be able to have a body more connected with the interests of the colony, and the whole body would be responsible to the Canadian people.
 Mr. Labouchere , on Clause 2, proposed more stringent regulations relative to acts that might be passed by the Governor, and Special Council, to continue in force after 1st November, 1842, and providing, that all such enactments should be laid before Parliament previous to their being confirmed, within thirty days after the same may be received by one of her Majesty's Secretaries of State, if Parliament be then sitting, and if not, within thirty days after the meeting of the first Session of Parliament then ensuing.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that Sir John Colborne had stated, that if these powers of legislation were not conferred on the Council, that he trusted that laws would be passed in England to give effect to the changes in the institutions of Canada which he proposed, and which he believed were essential for the well-being of the country. He had suggested, in case the course recommended was not adopted, that the necessary laws should be passed temporarily by the Special Council, and that they should afterwards be made permanent by the Imperial Parliament. Did the right hon. Baronet mean to deny, that if they did not legislate, that the consequences pointed out by Sir J. Colborne would not ensue, and that a state of things would arise pregnant with great evils and deeply affecting property, and which would be productive of great evils to the colony?
 Mr. Leader  would rather give the power to Sir John Colborne alone, than to the Governor and a Special Council of twenty persons.
 Mr. Leader  said, that the only part of the right hon. Gentleman's speech that he agreed in was, that it was a folly for that House to legislate for Canada. He agreed in this opinion, but the House had not been slow to pass resolutions depriving the colony of its legislature, and now they were ready to admit that they could not legislate for it here, but were anxious to
 208
 Mr. Hume  thought the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, the best radical speech he had ever heard. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that nothing could be more monstrous, than to impose taxes upon a people against their will, and without their consent, by their representatives, and he perfectly agreed in that opinion. He had said, that when a Government assumed despotic powers, he hoped that difficulties would arise, which would compel that Government to resort to constitutional means, and in that sentiment of the right hon. Gentleman he also agreed, and he trusted that this bill, which gave such powers to the Governor and Council, would
 193 194
 Mr. Hume  thought this number of councillors would only render the despotism more hurtful and more injurious. It was better to have one despot than many. He should, therefore, oppose the clause.
 Mr. Hume  believed, that there was no intention of restoring a representative and constitutional government to Canada, and
 211
 Mr. T. Duncombe  was also opposed to the appointment of so numerous a special council. He wished to know also the manner in which they were to be elected; whether they were to be elected in the old manner? By increasing the number of the Council, they diminished the responsibility. He should therefore certainly object to the whole clause, and take the sense of the House.
 Sir C. Grey  begged to be permitted to explain. What he had recommended was, that after the establishment of municipal councils throughout both provinces on a good plan, the Legislative Council of Upper Canada might to a certain degree, be dispensed with, not abolished, and certainly not that the Assembly should be suspended or destroyed, but that the functions of the Legislative Council of Upper Canada should be conducted by a union of part of its members with the special council of Lower Canada, mainly for the purpose of giving their assent or refusal to the bills of Upper Canada, and of exercising some control over the Legislature of Lower Canada. The right hon. Baronet had stated, that he had provided him with a sorry entertainment. The right hon. Baronet should at all events recollect, that it had been gratuitously provided.
 Sir C. Grey  agreed with the hon. Baronet in thinking that this was a subject to which it was desirable that the House should devote a few hours' attention, and that they should not separate without a discussion on the affairs of Canada. Although he was suffering under considerable indisposition, he felt called upon to address a few observations to the House. As he felt very great interest in the subject, and as he entertained a directly contrary opinion to the hon. Baronet on the topics of his speech, with the exception of that to which he had just alluded, he would follow him, but in doing so he would pursue a more cautious course than the hon. Baronet had done, and would shortly call the attention of the House to three or four most important points growing out of this subject. One of these was the danger that might arise from the mismanagement of affairs in Canada, which he had never yet seen placed in a sufficiently clear point of view, and, above all, as regarded the hands into which Canada might fall in case of anything of this kind unhappily occurring; and considering also the situation and resources of Lower Canada, and the disposition of the people, the inhabitants of that province. Above all, he would beg the House to turn its attention to the situation of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and to its importance as a naval station, and how much effect its loss might have on the military importance and the commercial existence of this country. When he returned to this country from Canada he heard—and he heard with astonishment from those to whose opinions some deference was due—that the province of Lower Canada was so remote and so separated
 154 155 156 per se, 157 l., 158 159
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that when last year a bill, nearly similar to the present, came before the House, it was said, that if the Government succeeded in carrying it, they would, without directly pledging the House to any principle hostile to the establishment, practically and surely effect the object of the Duties and Revenues Bill, and undermine all the ecclesiastical privileges of the Church of England, year by year, and little by little. Nearly all the chapters objected to that bill, not from any feeling with regard to their own interests, inasmuch, as even if they could be swayed by such a motive, their own personal rights were secured, but because of the injurious effect which it would have upon the Church. That whole question was prejudiced by this bill. It was a bill for the suspension of ecclesiastical appointments for the current year in all the cathedrals of England. But it went still further than this—that the rule should be relaxed according to a certain rota and principle, which rota and principle were to be established by that other bill, if it should ever be passed into a law, which the noble Lord introduced early in the session. Now, he would ask the noble Lord, whether this Bill would not, if it were carried into effect this year, and if it were renewed next year, and for a certain number of years in succession, as it had been renewed for a certain number of years past, eventually realize all those objects which the noble Lord had in view in the other bill, which stood for a committee that night (the Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill)? Would the noble Lord not secure all the great objects which he had in view when he introduced and passed the larger
 147
 Sir Robert Peel  should first address himself to the resolution which had been moved by the hon. Baronet, as an amendment to the House going into Committee on the Canada Bill. The principle of that resolution was to declare, on the part of the House, that considerations of humanity, justice, and sound policy demanded that Parliament should apply itself to legislate for the permanent government of the provinces. He (Sir R. Peel) must, in the first place, observe that he held himself entirely free from any responsibility whatever as to delay; that whatever responsibility the hon. Baronet might impute to him in future proceedings, he felt himself absolutely free from any responsibility as to the past. At an early period of the present Session he had asked the noble Lord whether he intended to proceed to legislate practically for the Government of Canada this Session, and the noble Lord answered that such was his intention. A few weeks after this, he again put the same question to the noble Lord, further asking him whether before Easter the House would have an opportunity of seeing the legislative measure by which it was proposed to provide for the future government of Canada, and he received an assurance that it was intended to submit such a measure before Easter. He had at the same time intimated his strong opinion that unless the proposed measure was in the hands of the House before Easter, the opportunity of legislating on the subject this Session would be altogether lost, and the Session would pass over without anything whatever having been done. He had no hesitation in stating that could he have foreseen that the intention of legislating for Canada would have been abandoned, he would himself have submitted to the House some proposition, in order to bring this question to some practical issue. It
 160 161 162 163 164 165 ad interim 166 167
 Sir R. Peel  did not think that the right hon. Gentleman was justified in making the references that he had to the authority of the papers of Sir John Colborne. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that alterations might be made in the tenure of property in Canada, but, to be beneficial, they should be permanent; and that neither on this nor any other subject should the Legislature be limited to the year 1842. But what did Sir John Colborne say in the paragraph before that read by the right hon. Gentleman?—
 "Most of the measures to which I have thought it right to draw your Lordships' attention as being of a character to demand the prompt interposition of her Majesty's Government, or of the Special Council, might, if found to be practically beneficial, be subsequently embodied in an Imperial Act providing for the future government of the province" "The ordinance to incorporate the ecclesiastics of the seminary of St. Sulpice, to confirm their title, and to provide for the general extinction of seigniorial rights and dues within their fiefs and seigniories, I trust will be sanc-
 209 "Lord Durham, I am aware, appointed commissioners to report upon several of the subjects in question, and had, I believe, framed ordinances for the consideration of her Majesty's Government to authorise a communication of the  lods-et-vents 210 "Provided also, that if any law or ordinance shall be made by the said Governor with such advice and consent as aforesaid, altering or affecting the tenure of land within the said province of Lower Canada, or any part thereof, the operation of every such law or ordinance shall, by the terms thereof, be suspended for the signification of her Majesty's pleasure, and no such law or ordinance shall be confirmed or left to its operation by her Majesty until the same shall have been first laid for thirty days before both Houses of Parliament."
 Sir R. Peel  rose to explain. It seemed to him that the noble Lord had misunderstood him. He did not mean to limit the provision to the police of Quebec or to the deficiency in any particular town. It was manifestly the interest of all towns to have a good police and to be well lighted and well watched. He did not mean to give the Governor in Council a power to cause all those towns to be well lighted and well watched, but he meant to give to the inhabitants a power to tax them selves for municipal purposes. But when they were going to give powers which were not to be placed under popular control it was right that they should have some
 179
 Sir R. Peel  was correct, therefore, in supposing that although an indefinite duration might be given to the ordinances of the provisional government—that government could not exist beyond the 1st of November, 1840, without the further intervention of Parliament. The second point to which he wished to call the attention of the House was the third clause in the bill. That clause contained much more extensive powers of taxation than he thought were at present contemplated by the House. First let the House consider the restrictions upon the taxing power which were imposed on the provisional government itself. By the Act of last year the governor and special council had not the power to impose any tax or rate, save only as far as concerned the continuance of any tax or rate payable within the province at the time of the passing of the Act. The Bill before the House proposed to repeal the restrictions imposed by the Act of last Session, and to permit the levy of any tax or impost within the province to any amount, without any restriction, excepting that the proceeds of such tax should be applied to local improvements within the province, and this provision
 "That no such new tax, rate, duty, or im-
 168 "That the governor and special council should be empowered to impose taxes for purposes altogether local, such as the maintenance of a police force, the lighting and paving of streets, and for otherwise improving towns and villages, and to increase or reduce local rates already existing; and further to pass ordinances for the under-mentioned purposes, viz., for the inspection of produce, and to impose rates of inspection; for authorizing companies or individuals to construct railroads, canals, bridges, and other internal communications, and to impose tolls and rates of transport
 169 l.; 170 171 Attorney-General, 172
 Sir R. Peel : Because the hon. and learned Gentleman charged us with sacrificing the good of the Canadas to party considerations, when the noble Lord had distinctly acquitted us of all such feeling.
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed disposed to attack every one who entertained opinions on the subject of Canada different from those of Government, yet was extremely tender of his own right to differ from Government. The hon. Gentleman objected to any attempt to interfere with the laws of property; but he (Sir R. Peel) was prepared to show that no efficient registration-law could come into operation, unless there was a change in the laws relating to the tenure of property. These were the words of Sir John Colborne's special council:—
 "The general or indeterminate mortgage, or hypothèque (that is, without specification of any particular property to which it is to attach), the customary dower, arising, without special contract, from the mere celebration of marriage, and descending as an inheritance with an indefeasible hypothèque to the children, and the legal or tacit mortgage arising from the offices of tutor and curator, which most persons may, by law, be compelled to undertake; these were circumstances in the existing state of the law which materially interfered with the adoption of an effectual system of registry, and seemed to present impediments which no system could entirely surmount while they continued to exist."
 Sir R. Peel  said, that on the second reading of the bill, as well as during the discussion that night, he had expressed his objection to the clause.
 Sir R. Peel  proposed the addition of certain words, to prevent any alteration being made under the bill in the law of tenure.
 Sir William Molesworth  said, that the motion of which he had given notice spoke for itself. The resolution which he should presently move only gave expression to a
 148 149 "The state of the two Canadas is such, that neither the feelings of the parties concerned, nor the interests of the Crown, or the colonies themselves, will admit of a single session, or even of a large portion of a session of Parliament being allowed to pass without a definite decision, by the Imperial Legislature, as to the basis on which it purposes to found the future government of those colonies." "While I found the field of inquiry thus large, and every day's experience and reflection impressed more deeply on my mind the importance of the decision which it would be my duty to suggest, it became equally clear, that that decision, to be of any avail, must be prompt and final. I needed no personal observation to convince me of this; for the evils I had it in charge to remedy are evils which no civilized community can long continue to bear. There is no class or section of your Majesty's subjects in either of the Canadas, that does not suffer from both the existing disorder and the doubt which hangs over the future form and policy of the government. While the present state of things is allowed to last, the actual inhabitants of these provinces have no security for person or property, no enjoyment of what they possess, no stimulus to industry. The development of the vast resources of these extensive territories is arrested, and the popu-
 150 "The disorders of Lower Canada admit of no delay; the existing form of government is but a temporary and forcible subjugation. Whatever may be the difficulty of discovering a remedy, its urgency is certain and obvious." "I cannot but express my belief, that this is the last effort of their almost exhausted patience, and that the disappointment of their hopes on the present occasion will destroy for ever their expectation of good resulting from British connexion. If now frustrated in their expectations, and kept in hopeless subjection to rulers irresponsible to the people, they will, at best, only await in sullen prudence the contingencies which may render the preservation of the province dependent on the devoted loyalty of the great mass of its population." "In conclusion, I most earnestly impress on your Majesty's advisers, and on the Imperial Parliament, the paramount necessity of a prompt and decisive settlement of this important question, not only on account of the extent and variety of interests involving the welfare and security of the British empire, which are perilled by every hour's delay, but on account of the state of feeling which exists in the public mind throughout all your Majesty's North American possessions, and more especially the two Canadas," 151 "I fortunately succeeded in calming for a time the irritation that existed, by directing the public mind to the prospect of those remedies which the wisdom and beneficence of your Majesty must naturally incline your Majesty to sanction, whenever they are brought under your Majesty's consideration. But the good effects thus produced by the responsibility which I took upon myself will be destroyed; all these feelings will recur with redoubled violence; and the danger will become immeasurably greater, if such hopes are once more frustrated, and the Imperial Legislature fails to apply an immediate and final remedy to all those evils of which your Majesty's subjects in America so loudly complain, and of which I have supplied such ample evidence." 152 153
 Lord Howick  said, that this was a subject which had greatly contributed to embroil the colony, and had formed the most complete obstacle to improvement. Until the law of tenure was reformed, it would be impossible to have a good system of registration; and for those reasons he trusted the House would not agree to the proposed amendment, as the Governor and Council might draw up a code which would be satisfactory to the people of both races.
 Mr. Attwood rose to bring forward his motion on the subject of the National Petition. He thanked the noble Lord for his kindness and consideration in proposing to the House that they should suspend the other orders of the day, to allow him to take precedence in bringing forward this question. He also thanked the House for its kindness in agreeing to that proposition of the noble Lord, and he thanked them still more that on the 14th of June last they had listened to his address with patience and kind consideration. He was sure that the conduct of the House on that occasion would not be lost upon the people of England; nor upon the hundreds of thousands of upright and honest men who had signed the petition, and of whom he was now the faithful, the honest, but he feared the too feeble advocate of the petition which he had the honour to present to the House on the 14th of June. He then thought it his duty to read a portion, and he now considered it proper to repeat some part of what he had then stated. That great petition, unequalled in the Parliamentary History of England, was produced by the long sufferings, the injuries, the wrongs, the distress of the working classes of the people—
 221 222 223 224 225 226 227 l. l. 228 229 230 l. 231 232 233 234 235
 Mr. D'Israeli  entirely agreed with the noble Lord as to the fallacy he had pointed out, as pervading this petition—that political rights necessarily ensured social happiness, But although they did not approve of the remedy suggested by the Chartists, it did not follow they should not attempt to cure the disease complained of. He did not think they had, up to the present moment, clearly seen what the disease really was. He could not believe, that a movement which, if not national, was yet most popular, could have been produced by those common means of sedition to which the noble Lord had referred. Unquestionably, there was more or less of a leaven of sedition mixing itself up with all popular commotions; but he could not believe, that a petition signed by considerably upwards of 1,000,000 of our fellow-subjects could have been brought about by those ordinary means which were always in existence, and which, five, ten, or fifteen years ago, were equally powerful in themselves, without producing any equal results. It had been supposed, that the basis of this movement was strictly economical. He had great doubts of that, because he found, that where there were economical causes for national movements they led to tumult, but seldom to organization. He admitted also, on the other hand, that this movement was not occasioned by any desire of political rights. Political rights had so much of an abstract character, their consequences acted so slightly on the multitude, that he did not believe they could ever be the origin of any great popular movement. But there was something between an economical and a political cause, which might be the spring of this great movement, as the noble Lord
 247 248 249 vis inertiœ 250 251 252 nonchalance
 Mr. O'Connell.  I must claim the indulgence of the House whilst I express my opinions on this occasion; because having taken a decided part against the Chartists out of this House, I feel it to be my duty to declare, that I am favourable to the principle, but not to the details of this petition. I don't agree to the adoption of the entire Charter, but I think there is a portion of it which ought to be worked out. I cannot certainly consent
 260 261 l. 262 263
 Mr. Villiers  intended to vote in favour of the Committee, and what the gallant Member who had just spoken had said should not deter him, though he must say, that if anything was likely to excite alarm and distrust in the object of the motion, it was the sort of language which the hon. Gentleman had held with respect to the national debt.
 Mr. Villiers  said it was precisely that expression of "grappling" of which he complained, for he knew that it would be misunderstood and would be construed in a sense likely to alarm the public creditor. Now, he would not allow that unguarded expression of the gallant Gentleman to bring discredit on those who voted for the motion; and, therefore, if he meant anything that could in any way affect the public credit, he should consider it a mere individual opinion, and in no way connected with the justice of considering the petition before the House; and he begged to remind the House, that opinions of that kind were just as common among those
 266 267
 Sir T. Acland  said, the House had no just idea of the state of the agricultural labourers if they judged from the nominal wages given them. There were other circumstances to be taken into consideration which would exhibit a very different picture. Taking 7 s. s. 273 s. s. s., s. s. d.,
 Sir J. Yarde Buller  concurred in the view taken of this question by his hon. Friend, who had just addressed the House. It was perfectly true, that besides the actual amount of money wages, the labourer had cider allowed him, and also commonly a cottage rent free, or at a very low rate, in addition to which, it was usual to let him have his wheat at a reduced price. This gave him an actual amount of payment for his labour of from 10 s. s.
 Mr. Goulburn  rose for the purpose of proposing the following resolutions, to be substituted for the report:—
 "That it appears from the finance accounts of the United Kingdom, laid upon the Table of this House, that the excess of expenditure over income for the year 1837 was 655,760 l., l. "That from a statement submitted to this House by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the excess of expenditure over income for the year ending the 5th day of April, 1840, is estimated at not less than 860,000 l. l. "That the select committee appointed 'to inquire into the present rates and mode of charging postage, with a view to such a reduction thereof as may be made without injury to the revenue,' reported to this House on the 13th day of August, 1838, as follows:—'That your Committee are of opinion that, so soon as the state of the public revenue will admit of the risking a larger temporary reduction, it will be expedient to subject all inland letters to an uniform rate of one penny per half-ounce, increasing at the rate of one penny for every additional half-ounce.' "That the net revenue of the Post-office for the year ending the 5th day of January, 1839, amounted to 1,656,993 l. s. d.; "That it is the opinion of this House that, with a deficiency of revenue during the three years ending on the 5th day of April, 1840, of not less than 1,860,987 l., 278 279 280 l., 281 l. l. 282 283 284
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  must certainly confess, after the declarations which had been made by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, on a former evening, when this measure was under discussion, that he felt altogether astonished at the modified shape in which the opposition was now brought forward by the right hon. Gentleman, and that they were not called upon to discuss that question in the manner which he was led to expect from that previous declaration of war, but to meet it in the more simple form in the nature of resolutions for postponement. The right hon. Baronet was far from declaring that the measure was not likely to give contentment to great numbers of people out of doors, or from denying that it would go far to satisfy many of their representatives in that House. He placed his objections, not on the grounds now stated by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, not on the lateness of the Session, not on objections to the principle of a measure which introduced changes in an Act of Parliament, being put into the hands of the Treasury, but he founded his principal objections on two contingencies. The first was, that there should be a surplus revenue equal to that which might be expected to be lost. The other was the contemplated imposition of a tax to supply the supposed deficiency. He could understand perfectly well both grounds of objection, but one was totally different from the other; and he could also very well understand the principle of prudence, which had at length induced the right hon. Gentleman and hon. Member opposite to take their stand against the
 285 No, no! 286 No, no? 287 288 289 l., l., l., l., 290
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that he had stated that these parties had heard with dismay that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had adopted the plan of Mr. Hill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would have supposed that these Gentlemen had had some experience, if not of himself, certainly of other Chancellors of the Exchequer. Probably from their better acquaintance with others that had held that office they had inferred that he would have followed the same course that they thought others would pursue. What had previously taken place, seemed to have escaped altogether the recollection of the right hon. Gentleman. He had asked the House to put the Treasury in that situation, so that they could try at the earliest possible period, this system of cheap postage. He distinctly stated, that without this pledge of the House, the Treasury would not adopt the experiment. He only asked that the subject should be tried until the next Session, when they could take any course that might be necessary. He did not call for an absolute reduction, and said that it was unnecessary to look further. Nothing of the kind had fallen from him— non meus hic sermo. 291 292
 Sir R. Peel observed  , that it was one of the inconveniences attendant upon this question, that the House was called upon to take part in a discussion which commenced at eleven o'clock, and if he had been inclined to take any party advantage, nothing could have been more easy than for him to have objected to proceeding with the question at so late an hour. He confessed he was surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman affect astonishment at the novelty of the course which he had
 293 l., d., l., l. l. 294 295 Murmurs. l. l. l. l. 296 297 l., l. l. 298 299 l. l.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that he admitted the great talent with which the right hon. Gentleman opposite had argued this question, but he seemed to forget altogether that the report of the committee was in favour of this plan. He was willing to admit that all the observations of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, with respect to public credit, were perfectly just, and he could only say that he was ready to go the whole length the right hon. Baronet had gone in supporting public credit. But what was their position in regard to this question? Why, they were in the position that no experiment could be tried unless Parliament granted to the Treasury the necessary powers for carrying the plan into effect, coupled with a pledge to make good the deficiency, should any arise from its adoption. But the right hon. Baronet said, that the House should not he called upon to make such an experiment until the bill containing the details of the plan were before them, and until the amount of the deficiency was ascertained. Now this was impossible. All the Government wanted was, an opportunity of trying the effects of the measure, and afterwards, when they saw their way more clearly than they did at the
 300 l.; l., 301
 Mr. Warburton , far from complaining of opposition, was better satisfied that the present proposition met with it, because it was of infinite importance, that by a discussion the public should be informed of its nature and character. He did not agree in the remark made by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) wished to convert this measure of policy into a party question, for it was one upon which hon. Gentlemen might conscientiously entertain great doubts, though in those doubts he did not join. With regard to the objections which had been raised, it had been first contended, that this was too late a period of the Session to entertain the matter. No doubt the proposition came unexpectedly before the House. But had they never heard of it before? Was the report of the committee unread, or were the petitions which had overwhelmed the House in favour of the scheme forgotten? Had not the progress of public opinion shown, that at a very early period the matter must come under the consider-
 302 303 l.,
 Viscount Sandon  had never given a vote under circumstances of greater difficulty than the one which he was about to give upon the question then before the House. It was impossible for any man who was in favour of the reduction of the duty upon postage to have listened to the excellent speech of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, without feeling that he incurred a great responsibility in voting for that resolution. He, therefore, did not think it too much to claim the indulgence of the House whilst he stated some of those reasons which had induced him to give the vote which he intended to give upon the subject. He had long been of opinion that the Post-office was not a proper source of revenue; it ought, in his opinion, and he had long held that opinion, to be employed to stimulate other sources of revenue. He had expressed those opinions in other places; they were not the result of the pressure from without, but were the sincere feelings of his own mind; and he, therefore, had the less hesitation in stating them upon that occasion. He was glad that he was in some degree enabled to throw the responsibility of the whole plan upon her Majesty's Ministers. If they took upon themselves the responsibility and incurred the risk of any deficit in the revenue, he should feel inclined to forego any opposition to the plan in acceding to the wishes which had been expressed in its favour. He could not avoid saying that the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, would have the effect, if such were possible, of increasing the confidence which was reposed in him. He had shown that independence of conduct which had always characterized his public life by the course he had pursued with reference to that subject, by preferring the discharge of his public duty to popularity. He had felt it necessary to offer some observations upon the vote which he intended to give.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. Member for Bridport might put whatever interpretation he liked on that part of the resolution just referred to; and he thought the right hon. Baronet
 308
 Mr. Wallace  said, that he for one should be ready to give his vote for the purpose of supplying any deficiency which might arise in the revenue.
 General Johnson  rose and said, that he had said nothing that implied an intention of dealing dishonestly with the public debt; he had only spoken of the necessity of grappling with the national debt.
 General Johnson  rejoiced to perceive
 265
 Mr. Fox Maule  did not intend to have taken part in the present debate, and should not have done so, if it had not been for what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, in reference to the speech of his hon. Friend, the Member for Glasgow (Mr. Oswald). The hon. Member said, that his hon. Friend must take the consequences of that speech, referring, as he supposed, to the effects which the speech was likely to entail upon him amongst his constituents. Now, he apprehended, that the hon. Member for Finsbury, when he threw out that observation, was labouring under a complete mistake as to the general feeling in Scotland concerning what was called the Charter. In consequence of what had transpired, he felt himself called upon to declare, that the feeling of the vast majority of the people of Scotland was not in favour of, but in decided opposition to, what was called the People's Charter. He was the more convinced that he was right in that conviction when he referred to the county of Perth. The delegate appointed to represent that county and the county of Fife in the National Convention, as it was called, withdrew himself from that association as soon as he perceived the precipice to which it was approaching, and was no longer a
 272
 Lord John Russell  said: Mr. Speaker, there was one part of the speech of the hon. Member for Birmingham with which I was extremely gratified, at the same time that I was not surprised, at hearing from him. I mean that part in which he denied all concurrence with those who have recommended the use of arms and physical force, and expressed his desire to obtain his objects by peaceable means, and his determination to discountenance any attempt to overawe by force, the laws of the realm. I say I was not surprised at hearing that sentiment from the hon. Member for Birmingham, it being only in accordance with what he has said on various occasions—both what he has addressed to this House, and I believe elsewhere. At the same time, the hon. Gentleman must he aware that those who have promoted this petition, which, I think, he has, with a very undue assumption, called the National Petition,—that those persons, I say, who have promoted this petition, have been found going through the country, from town to town, and from place to place, exhorting the people in the most violent and revolutionary language—language not exceeded in violence and atrocity in the worst times of the French Revolution—to subvert the laws by force of arms. We owe it to the good sense of the people in general, that they have not listened to such exhortations. Unfortunately, a certain number of them have been misled—not into entertaining particular opinions, for with their political opinions I am not now quarrelling, but
 237 238 239 240 241 242 "Fellow countrymen, you have given abundant proof of your ardent desire for this trial (referring to the subject matter of discussion) and we are about to test the sincerity and solidity of your zeal. Amongst the number of measures by which you have been enslaved, there is not one more oppressive than the corrupting influence of paper money." "that this system of dishonesty which was unknown to our forefathers, was now sapping the moral foundations of the nation." Non meus hic sermo. 243 244 245 246
 Mr. A. White  said, though he considered it little better than high treason to call on the people to arm, still he hoped the time would soon come when the country would respond to the call for further reform, which was sure otherwise to be carried with a vengeance. He was quite sure the middle and lower classes would not be satisfied until they were fully and fairly represented in Parliament, and he could tell the House, that a very strong feeling existed on the subject, to his own knowledge, in the North of England. He had no hesitation in saying, that in consequence of the great number of useful reforms denied to the country in another place after they had been conceded by that House, the people had got into a state of desperation, and entertained no further hope of redress from Parliament. He thought her Majesty's Ministers entitled to the gratitude of the people of this country, and he hoped they would be enabled to carry out their good intentions towards them very shortly.
 Mr. Warburton , differing from the hon. Gentleman, who had just sat down, did not consider that he should be practising any deception upon the people if he consented to go into this Committee, because this was not the first instance that had occurred within the walls of Parliament in which Members not agreeing to the full extent in certain principles laid down by petitioners, had still felt themselves justified (practising, as he maintained, no deception) in admitting them in a degree. He agreed with the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Oswald) to this extent, that he
 268
 Mr. Oswald  was understood to state that he should not support the proposition for going into Committee to consider the petition, because he believed that the only effect of such a proceeding on the part of the House would be to give rise to hopes and expectations in the public mind, which would certainly be disappointed. He did not pretend to say how far the elective franchise might, in time, be extended in this country. He believed the question to be an extremely difficult one; but this he would say, that there was an overwhelming majority in this country totally opposed to universal suffrage, and that being the leading feature in the present petition, he should hold himself as acting exceedingly wrong if he were to consent to go into a Committee where that subject was to be discussed.
 Mr. Fielden  seconded the motion. The petition was one that was well deserving of the earnest attention of the House, as expressing the strong and ardent feelings of such a number of persons in favour of a reform in that House, as well as conveying their demand for a redress of the grievances under which they now suffered. The first question to consider was, did the House believe the allegations contained in that petition? Believing, as he did, the truth of the allegations in that petition—believing that they were deserving of the utmost attention—believing that if the prayers of the people were entirely disregarded, serious consequences might ensue, he felt it his duty to support the motion of the hen. Member for Birmingham. The petitioners complained of being oppressed by a load of taxes. Was that, he would ask, a false allegation? He believed that no hon. Member would undertake to deny that fact. Were the people, then, continually to suffer under the pressure of those taxes? They complained in that petition that the manufacturers were on the verge of bankruptcy, and the workmen starving. Now, he could, bear out that statement; it was perfectly true in every particular, and if any hon. Member bad any doubt of it, he had but to inquire in the manufacturing districts of Lancashire for its confirmation. In cotton, which was one of the principal manufactures of England, the consumption had been two thirds less up to this period than it had been last year. And what was the cause of that depression in the manufacturing districts? The bad legislation, or, at all events, the neglect of good legislation, in that House, was the chief cause of that suffering, and, therefore, the people had a right to demand redress at their hands. They also complained that they had been bitterly and basely deceived by the Reform Bill. He was one of those who had exerted himself to obtain the passing of that bill, thinking that if it were passed, the grievances of the people would be redressed, but in that respect he was disappointed. The condition of the people, instead of being improved, had become worse. Since that period they had passed a bill for coercing the Irish people, instead of affording them relief. They had given away twenty millions of the public money to procure the emancipation of the
 236
 Mr. Hume  thought that the taunt which the hon. Member for Maidstone had thrown out against her Majesty's Ministers was scarcely justified by the circumstances of the case; for if the Members on the Ministerial side of the House had done little this Session, the hon. Members on the other side had done still less to forward public objects. He agreed with the hon. Member that there was a general discontent prevailing among the labouring classes, but must remark, at the same time, that it was impossible for the measures of any particular Government to have produced that organization of them which they saw existing at present. That organization arose out of deep and general discontent, and that discontent, he believed, was generated by the disappointed expectations of those who had cordially joined with the Government in carrying the Reform Bill of 1832. He believed that the people had expected greater and better results from that bill,
 253 254 "The energies of a mighty kingdom had been wasted in building up the power of selfish and ignorant men, and that its resources had been squandered for their aggrandizement." "That the good of a party had been advanced to the sacrifice of the good of the nation—that the few had governed for the interest of the few, while the interest of the many had been neglected, or insolently and tyrannously trampled on." "They looked upon the Reform Act as the machinery of an improved legislation—where the will of the masters would be at length potential;" 255 Laughter. 256 "First, that freeholders, householders, and others, subject to direct taxation in support of the poor, the Church, and the State, should be required to elect Members to serve in Parliament; secondly, that each county should be subdivided according to its taxed male population, and each subdivision required to elect one Representative; thirdly, that the votes should be taken in each parish by the parish officers, and that all the elections should be finished in one and the same day; and, fourthly, that Parliament should be brought back to a constitutional duration." "I have stated fully and dispassionately, and I hope clearly and satisfactorily, to this House, and to the public, the remedy for all our
 257 Blackwood's "The destruction of property, order, and civilization; impracticable in an old and highly peopled State; and necessarily ruinous to the security of life and liberty." "To deprive any member of the community of his right to vote, in making the laws, or electing those who are to make them, was neither more nor less than an outlawry of such individual—putting him out of the pale of the Constitution—that it is, in fact, a robbery, if the least particle of his property is touched for the purposes of the community which thus excludes him—that a man deprived of his vote is, to all intents and purposes, a slave, for he is wholly dependent on others for life, and liberty, and comfort, which he is obliged to commit to the care and keeping of persons whom he despises, perhaps detests." "In the ancient Constitution of the country, no man could be taxed for the support of the State who had not consented, by himself or his representatives, to such tax." "I believe the measure to be one of peace and conciliation. In 1786 (the noble Earl continued) I supported Mr. Pitt in his measure for shortening Parliaments—and making the Douse of Commons more fully, fairly, and freely, representing the people." 258
 Mr. Scholefield  thought there ought to be a property tax. The noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department had charged the Reformers with having made up their minds for a division of property. That he denied. They wished for no man's property; and if the House would only act honestly, they would hear of no further Chartist meetings. What they protested against was the aristocracy
 274 s. l. l.
 Mr. Slaney  said, he could not agree to going into Committee on a petition which asked so large an alteration in the constitution, and one which appeared to him not at all calculated to lead to the end which the petitioners professed to have in view. He would have been willing to give to their prayer every consideration, if he believed that it was in any degree likely to forward their own object. They complained that
 259
 Mr. Wallace , agreeing in much of what had been said by others who had preceded him, would state briefly the course he intended to take. He would vote for going into Committee, in order to see what could
 264
 Mr. Thomas Attwood : The House should be made aware of the real state of the case of the deposits in the savings'-banks. They amounted altogether to 22 millions, but of these only two millions consisted of deposits of sums under 20 l.;
 Mr. Wakley  wished to know whether the hon. Member for Glasgow was anxious to have it proclaimed to those who elected him that he was opposed to the whole of the six propositions set forth in the petition? Did the hon. Member mean to say, that because he could not support the whole of these propositions, therefore he would not go into Committee with the hope of obtaining one. Was that the line of conduct which the hon. Member meant to pursue to obtain the applause and the approbation and the confidence of his constituents at Glasgow. It did not follow because the hon. Member was opposed to some of the propositions contained in the petition, that therefore he should refuse to go into Committee to consider them in conjunction with others to which he might be induced to assent. He was not one of those who thought that the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, had treated this subject with any degree of levity or unkindness; he thought that the noble Lord's speech was a kind speech, and, for the most part,
 269 s. s. 270 s. Member: 271
 Sir G. Clerk,  said, that as this was the last of the numerous clauses which had been added by way of rider to this bill, he must protest against this unparalleled mode of legislation. He thought if the journals of the House were searched from the earliest period, no instance could be found of clauses, to the number of thirty or forty, many of them penal, being added to a bill in this its last stage. It was true that these clauses were merely a transcript of clauses which had been introduced into the Metropolitan Police Bill, but still this was a most irregular mode of proceeding, and one which, if not guarded might be drawn into a very inconvenient
 332
 Mr. F. Maule  gave the hon. Baronet full credit for a laudable desire to maintain regularity, but he thought the hon. Baronet, if he really was so anxious about the matter, might before this course was taken, have suggested that the bill should be withdrawn, and a new bill introduced. The hon. Baronet would, perhaps, remember that the object of these clauses was to establish uniformity in the police regulations both in the city of London and the east and west ends of the town, and that clauses identically the same as those now proposed had been fully discussed in committee on the Metropolitan Police Bill. He was sorry if the proceeding had been at all inconvenient to the House, but he did not think it would be worth while to make an entry on the journals, as had been suggested.
 Mr. Hume  would be glad to know if what had now been done was contrary to the rules of the House, because, if not, these was no necessity for any entry on the journals? He apprehended that it was only on extraordinary occasions that such a course as the present was taken, and then only at the discretion of the House.
 Sir G. Clerk  was only afraid this proceeding might be drawn into a precedent, and therefore he had thought it necessary that a note should be appended to the journals, stating the circumstances of these
 333
 Mr. Hume  said, the only course was for the hon. Baronet to move a resolution to that effect. If the House had a discretion in these cases, he did not see there were any grounds to find fault.
 Sir J. Graham  admitted, that the subject to which the Hon. Member adverted was an important one, but observed, that it had been fully considered and discussed in the committee up stairs. The committee agreed that popular influence should have its effect in the appointment of a commissioner, and therefore left the power of nomination in the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Common Council; but with respect to dismissal, they thought that that power should either remain in the Crown, or be placed in the hands of the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen. The committee finally agree, though by a small majority certainly, to confer the power of dismissal on the Lord Mayor and Aldermen, and they arrived at this conclusion because they were aware that the commissioner would have unpopular duties to discharge, and that, therefore, it would be unfair to render the retention of office contingent on the will of a popular body such as the Common Council. He concurred in this view, and had heard nothing to induce him to alter the opinion which he had formed.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that, without very strong reasons for it, he could not consent to alter the proposition which the committee had adopted. It was no doubt right that the Common Council should have a voice in the selection of the commissioners, but he at the same time thought they would not be a fit body to discuss the question of removal. He felt it to be his duty, therefore, to abide by the recommendation which the committee had given.
 Mr. Williams  said; the citizens of Lon-
 334
 Mr. F. Maule  denied, that the City had been unfairly dealt with by the present Act. He trusted, after all the consideration the subject had undergone, that his hon. Friend would not press his amendment.
 Mr. Williams  seconded the amendment. He did not see why the Commissioner should be prohibited from sitting in Parliament any more than the Recorder, the Common Sergeant, or the Lord Mayor. The citizens of London wished to put the police force under a gentleman with whom they had been connected for many years, and in whom they had great confidence—that Gentleman was the hon. Member for Southwark, and his belief was, that this clause was directed against that hon. Member. He, therefore, opposed the clause.
 Mr. F. Maule  could not agree to any alteration in the clause. The hon. Member who had last spoken had placed him in rather a delicate position by the insinuation he had made, but he could positively state that this clause had been introduced without reference to any person. The committee to whom this bill had been referred, had looked to the Act of the 10th George the 4th, which regulated the police of Westminster, and it was found in that bill there was a clause excluding the commissioners from Parliament. It was but right that the citizens of London should have the whole time of the Commissioner, considering the salary they would pay him.
 Mr. Hume  would not say, that it did, but he thought it looked very like as if the clause was intended to apply to the hon. Member for Southwark. He doubted very much whether it would be fair to persevere in this motion. If the Commissioner was not to be allowed to sit in that House, he did not see why the Recorder of London should.
 Sir J. Graham  could not assent to the proposition that the office in question would be entirely in the gift of the people. The appointment was to be given with the approval, and to be held during the
 336
 Mr. D'Israeli  said, the argument of the right hon. Baronet would go to disfranchise policemen as voters, and might be used as an argument against every officer of the State sitting in that House. The Secretary of State had multifarious duties to perform, was well paid, and the country was entitled to the whole of his time. This question would involve the discussion of a principle which had never yet been settled, the propriety of official functionaries having seats in the House. He entirely agreed with the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that the acceptance of office ought not to disqualify from a seat in Parliament.
 Mr. Villiers  agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. There was no general principle on this subject laid down at all, and the argument of the right hon. Baronet would apply to a great many cases. To Lords-lieutenant and county magistrates for instance. No body of men possessed more important patronage than Lords-lieutenant, and yet they had seats in that House; two-thirds of the Members were county magistrates, who possessed the important power of granting or withholding licences; and he felt convinced that more votes were obtained from the fear of having licences withheld, or from the hope of having them granted, than from any other cause. If the argument was of any force, it applied to county magistrates. As far as he understood the reason for these disqualifications, it was from dread of the influence of the Crown; that did not apply in the present instance. The Corporation would take care not to appoint an unfit person, and the electors would see that the Member attended to
 337
 Mr. Hawes  supported the clause, and was anxious, that all questions relating to the police should be discussed without party or political feeling. He objected for several reasons to the Commissioner having a seat in that House: the Secretary of State was the head of the department, and responsible for the conduct of the police. It might happen, that a discussion might take place, and a difference of opinion be manifested between the Secretary of State and the commissioner, and the police would not then be able to look up to one head alone for orders. He would have the appointment of the men, and his patronage would consequently be just as great whatever borough he represented. The police were intended to act as arbiters between different parties, and therefore it was important they should not exhibit party feelings. He utterly disclaimed any individual feeling on the subject, having always supported this clause.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that he should not permit the accidental reference which had been made to him by his hon. Friend, the Member for Coventry, to induce him to withhold the expression of his opinion upon the clause of the bill then under discussion. In the course of the remarks which had been made by the Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department in opposition to the motion of the hon. Member for London (Mr. Patteson) to the effect that the dismissal of the commissioners should be vested in the Common Council assembled, the Under Secretary laid great stress upon the circumstance, that the clause had received the sanction of a committee, and though it was intimated, that the clause itself was only carried by a majority of one, an hon. Member on the other side of the House attached as much importance to that vote as had her Majesty's Ministers to the vote which they had recently obtained on a majority of two. A motion like that which was carried in the committee had been made in the Common Council, in consequence of a report current at the time, that the commissioner would not be qualified to sit in that House, and out of the whole number but four persons were found to support it, while the other clause to which he had alluded had been carried by a majority of
 338 1., 339 1. 1. 340
 Sir Robert Peel —Sir, I should be quite ashamed if I felt it necessary to disclaim any influence of a personal nature. I am sure that the proposition is made solely in reference to the general consideration of public benefit, and it is therefore scarcely necessary for me to disclaim any feeling of personal hostility in the course which I may think proper to pursue. I do not know what are the hon. Gentleman's chances of succeeding to this office, and I can only hope that the authorities who shall have the nomination of those officers may be afforded a fair opportunity of selecting those who have the best pretensions to discharge the duties efficiently. If I understood the hon. Gentleman, he said, those persons only were excluded from seats in Parliament, who held offices during pleasure. Why, the judges were not allowed to sit in Parliament, and they hold their offices independent of the Crown. In the reign of George 2nd, the Scotch judges were deprived of their eligibility to sit in Parliament—not upon the ground of their tenure of office, but upon the same ground that our criminal judges were rendered ineligible—because it was thought that it would be better if those who filled the judicial seat as civil
 341 342 343
 Lord J. Russell  said, that after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet opposite, it would not be necessary for him to trouble the House by entering into a discussion of the question then before them. Thus much, however, he might say, that if the appointment of commissioner rested with the Secretary of State, he should not by any means recommend the appointment of a Member of that House. He was sorry that it should become necessary to exclude them by an Act of Parliament. He regretted that it should in any case become necessary to narrow the choice of the people, for he would much rather leave motions of this sort to the special circumstances of each individual case. Being of opinion, however, that, in such a case as the present, there ought to be such a provision, he should support the clause.
 Sir R. Inglis  rose to object to the measure, to which he felt bound to offer his most strenuous resistance. His opposition to it was not produced, either in its extent or character, by the resistance which had been shown to the several amendments which had been proposed for the improve-
 345
 Mr. Plumptre  seconded the amendment.
 Mr. O'Connell  would detain the House only a very few minutes. If the bill had been an extension, as it should have been, the people of Ireland would have been reproached with receiving a boon, and yet remaining unsatisfied. He wished those who were inclined to make that statement would recollect the fact, that none of the measures of reform given to Ireland had been placed on an equal footing with those for England and Scotland. What the Irish demanded, was equality; and why should they be content without it? No measure of relief short of English franchise and privileges would satisfy them. They would always continue their efforts to raise their position to the Eng-
 346
 Mr. Darby  said, when he first sat in that House, the principle of municipal corporations for Ireland was conceded by the Conservatives both of that and the other House of Parliament; and the only anxiety was, that the qualification should be a  bonâ fide
 Colonel Perceval  had voted for the second reading of the bill, in the hope that the Government would adopt a 10 l.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that there was one other consideration to which he wished to call the attention of the Committee.
 352
 Mr. Grimsditch  said, he had strong objections to the measure. The predictions which had been made in that House as to the manner in which the Poor-law Amendment Act would be carried out, had been fully realized. It was not his object, at the present moment, to animadvert upon the gentlemen to whom the duty of conducting and carrying out that measure had been confided; he believed them to be most respectable and honourable men, but this much he must say of them, that they, or at all events those who acted under them, did not possess, in his opinion, sufficient practical knowledge. The host of sub-commissioners which had been sent out through the country was composed principally of barristers-at-law, of very short standing at the bar, who had not had any experience of the social feelings and habits of the people of the country. But he objected to the present bill as unnecessary. The unconstitutional powers vested in the Commissioners, it was provided by the Poor-law Amendment Act, were to continue fur five years, and until the end of the then next Session of Parliament. Now, surely five years was ample time to try and ascertain the working of the measure. The measure had, with one or two exceptions, he believed, been carried into effect throughout the kingdom, and within the term the commission would now continue—namely, until the end of the next Session—an ample opportunity would be afforded fully to try the experiment. But with respect to this bill. At the commencement of the present Session, and frequently during its progress, questions had been put to the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) as to his intentions with respect to this law, and early in the Session, the noble Lord stated his intention to bring in a bill, not
 354 355
 Mr. Darby  said, that though it was not his intention to oppose the second reading of the bill, he thought there was some justice in the remarks made by the hon. Member for Macclesfield as to the course which had been pursued by the noble Lord opposite with respect to it. It had been truly stated, that the noble Lord said he would bring in a bill in the second week of May to effect certain amendments in the existing poor-laws, and now the House had arrived at the 15th of July. The noble Lord had not redeemed his promise, but had waited until many hon. Members interested in the subject had left town, and consequently the present measure would not receive that discussion which it called for and deserved. But though the bill to continue the Poor-law commission was now before the House, still those clauses of amendment, including the bastardy clauses, which the noble Lord promised to lay on the Table, were not forthcoming, and up to the present moment, nobody knew at what time they would be brought forward; still less did anybody know what provisions they would contain. The noble Lord had said, that the object of this bill was to continue the commission but for one year longer; but, on looking at the bill, he found it provided, that the commissioners "should hold their offices until the expiration of one year from the 14th of August, 1840, and until the end of the then next Session of Parliament." So that the bill proposed a continuance of nearly three years. He should not vote against the second reading of the bill, because that course might prevent him moving those amendments which he desired to see effected in the present laws. If the noble Lord refused those amendments when proposed in Committee, he should vote against the third reading, on the principle that he might then probably get an early opportunity next Session of pressing his amendments upon the House.
 Colonel Sibthorp  had great pleasure in supporting the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Grimsditch). The Poor-law Amendment Bill, it had been promised, would be a
 356 l. minimum. l. l. 357
 Sir J. J. Guest  would oppose the second reading of the bill, inasmuch as the poorer classes of his constituents complained that the existing law was cruel and oppressive, especially in those provisions which permitted the separation of husband and wife, and the refusal to afford out-door relief. If, however, the bill went into Committee, he now gave notice that he should move clauses to amend the provisions of the existing law to which he alluded.
 Mr. W. Tatton Egerton  said, that having opposed the former bill in every stage, he felt bound now to say that subsequent experience had confirmed him in his opposition to its principles. A very strong feeling existed against the Poor Law Act, and much difficulty had had to be encountered in obtaining the attendance of guardians to carry its provisions into operation. He himself entertained a strong feeling against the act, and he thought there was also much reason to complain of the mode in which it had been carried into effect. In this part of the country rules and regulations had been sent down to them, and when it was attempted to moderate their severity, the commissioners had insisted on those regulations being observed in the most rigid manner. Those rules had been much complained of, and he would therefore press upon the noble Lord the propriety of withdrawing this bill for the present, and early in another session of introducing a new measure, into which some modifications of the present system might be introduced. If the amendment was pressed to a division, he should vote against the bill.
 Mr. P. Howard  said, few Acts had received the sanction of Parliament which, in his opinion, had been productive of more beneficial effects in the northern districts than the Poor Law Amendment Act. He could not help expressing his thanks for the great reduction in the rates which had taken place under the new system.
 Sir W. James  said, that if his hon. Friend the Member for Macclesfield pressed his amendment to a division, he should certainly vote with him, for he entertained many objections to the bill. He was not inclined to revert to the old system, but
 358
 Mr. Blackstone  would freely confess, although he should vote against this bill, that he was not prepared to vote fur the total repeal of the existing law. When the guardians had acted independently of the commissioners, the Poor Law Amendment Act had been beneficial; but when the guardians had submitted to the dictation of the commissioners, the worst results had followed. For himself he wished to see the guardians invested with a discretionary power of granting relief, and there were other alterations which he trusted would be made. He should support the amendment.
 Mr. Buck  believed, that the country was more indebted to her Majesty's Ministers for the Poor Law Amendment Act than for any other measure which they had brought forward. He acknowledged that he had at first looked with suspicion on that act, but having been the chairman of a board of guardians for a considerable period, he was now convinced from experience that the Poor Law Act had been of the greatest possible service to the country. There was one clause, however, to which he felt it his duty to call the attention of the Government, viz., the clause relating to the relief of the able-bodied poor. He thought it absolutely necessary, with reference to this part of the system, that a discretionary power should be vested in the guardians, and he was sorry to see any bill introduced at so late a period, that due consideration could not be given to this important subject, so as to enable them to effect some practical improvements. If the commissioners would allow a discretionary power to the guardians, he was sure the concession would be attended with very beneficial results.
 Mr. T. Parker  said, he would support the amendment which had been moved, as he objected strongly to be system which allowed no discretionary power to the guardians with respect to out-door relief. He objected also to the extensive powers vested in the commissioners. It might have been imagined that some modification of the extraordinary powers of the commissioners, which they exercised in a more extraordinary manner, would have been proposed; but he found by a
 359 J. Russell:
 The Speaker  begged to intimate to the hon. Member that the House was not debating the Collection of Rates Bill at that time. The question was, that the Poor Law Commission Continuance Bill be read a second time.
 Mr. T. Parker  was aware that such was the fact, and he was only endeavouring to show that very extraordinary powers were to be granted to the commissioners by another bill. The words of the clause in the Collection of Rates Bill to which he had alluded were, that the powers of the commissioners should extend "to all monies, papers, goods, and chattels, applicable or relating in any way to the relief of the poor, as well as to the relief, maintenance, and removal, of the poor." The effect of that proviso would be, that not one single charity which had been established for the relief of the widow and the orphan would escape the control of the Poor Law Commissioners. That was one of the strongest objections which he had to the bill before the House, as the bill went to continue the powers of the commissioners, and although he stood alone he should vote against it.
 Mr. Wakley  said, it appeared to him very extraordinary that a bill of this kind, and of such vast importance, should have been introduced without one word of explanation. He could not comprehend how Ministers could propose such a bill without stating the grounds on which it
 360 officio 361
 Mr. Pakington  said, the hon. Member for Finsbury had blamed the Government because they had offered no explanation on the introduction of this bill; but although it was not his duty to defend her Majesty's Ministers, yet he must observe, that as it was merely a bill to continue certain provisions of a former Act, it did not appear to him that any explanation was necessary. The hon. Member had also alluded, and in terms of censure, to the  ex officio ex officio
 Mr. T. Attwood  had no hesitation in saying, that a more odious measure than the Poor Law Amendment Act had never
 362
 Mr. Freshfield  would vote for the second reading of this bill, being desirous to go into Committee, with a view to restricting the term of its operation to a single year. He should have preferred instead of enacting the existing poor law, returning to the statute of Elizabeth, taking care not to permit abuse in its operations.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that there was a fraud on the face of this bill. It purported to be a renewal for a brief period, yet upon inspection of its contents, it turned out to contain a renewal of the provisions of the Poor Law Bill for three years from the 14th of August next. The most arbitrary powers had been conceded to the Poor Law Commissioners—powers which had been objected to by the whole people of England, and this bill proposed to commit a fraud on the people of England, and extend their powers for three years more. It was a modification, not an augmentation of these powers that the country expected. Was it proper, in the present state of the finances of the country, to entail upon us an expense of 70,000 l, 363
 Lord J. Russell  said, that when he introduced this bill to the House, it did not appear to him to require any explanation. He had stated, that his object was to enable Parliament to have a full opportunity of discussing any amendment which it might be proposed to introduce during the ensuing Session. If the next Session should happen to be very long, the powers of the commissioners would last to the end of the Session; if the Session, on the contrary, should happen to be a brief one, their powers would terminate with it. In reply to the remark of the hon. Member for Sussex, he had to observe that, considering the quantity of business which was before the House, it would have been almost impossible, during the present Session, to have secured such an attendance of Members as would have enabled them to go through all the different amendments in the present law, which hon. Members would have proposed for their consideration. The hon. Member for Finsbury had complained of the proposed duration of the powers of the commissioners. Now, he had thought that it was agreed upon all hands, that these powers should be conceded to the Commissioners for five years, and that Parliament should, at the expiration of that period, have an opportunity of considering whether they would continue them, But he had never contemplated that these powers should
 364 365
 Mr. G. Palmer  opposed the second reading, not with a view of returning to the evils of the old system of Poor-laws, but to prevent the introduction of that piecemeal system of legislation and infringement upon the rights of the people to which the Ministry resorted on every occasion. There was quite sufficient time before the operation of the present provisions would expire, to introduce such a measure as would put the Poor-law of this country upon a proper basis.
 Mr. Hindley  thought it intolerable that it should be left to the three kings at Somerset-house to determine what food should be given to the poor, and how they should be treated. He required no better proof of the effect of such a law than the dietary which had been issued by those three kings for the support of the poor. In a part of the country which he had lately visited, and where the New Poor-law was in operation, he found the price of land was from 3 l. s. l. 366
 Mr. Fielden  was understood to say that while the Poor-law had produced so much misery, it had wholly failed in producing what it was intended to effect—namely, an advance in the wages of the poor. He never heard the Poor-law praised except by Members of that House—who perhaps might have objects of their own to answer. It had been said, that the new Act had improved the condition of the labouring classes, but how could that be when their wages were in fact lowered? Did such a result justify the extending of these unwarrantable powers to the commissioners? If the act had worked as well as it had worked ill, he would never have consented to continue to any men such unconstitutional powers, and this measure should not pass without encountering all the opposition which it was in his power to give it.
 Mr. M. Philips  thought the Poor-law Amendment Act, had conferred inestimable benefits upon that part of the country with which he was particularly acquainted, by keeping the labourers in constant and regular employment, and in a state of greater comfort, respectability, and happiness than they had previously known. He thought a fair trial ought to be given to the act, although he was ready to concur in any improvements upon the measure which at present, could only be regarded as an experiment.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that he wished to add a proviso. It was to meet such a case as this:—A chapter, say the chapter of Canterbury, bad borrowed 25,000 l.
 Lord J. Russell  could not consent to this proviso, which would have the effect
 369
 Sir T. D. Acland  proposed that such a sum should be taken from the amount of the vacant stall as would have been paid as the proportion of the prebendary if the stall had been filled up.
 Lord J. Russell  assented to this proposition.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he would prefer omitting the clause altogether.
 Sir J. Graham  thought that there would be injustice to the clause as it stood; the condition of the lessees would be much damaged by it.
 Mr. V. Smith  said, that he could not admit the term of justice to be applied to the state of things supposed. A lessor had a right to grant or refuse a renewal of the lease, and it could not be said that there was injustice in his refusal.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that he withdrew the word injustice, but it would work a practical hardship.
 Mr. Aglionby  was surprised at the doctrine of his hon. Friend the Member for Northampton. For his own part, he would prefer the omission of the clause.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that this was the first instance in which the agency of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had been recognized and introduced into these Suspension Bills. But the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth wished for the omission of the 5th clause, and as he also on a truly opposite ground wished it, he trusted that it would be removed from the bill.
 Lord J. Russell  assented. Clause struck out.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. Gentleman seemed to have mistaken the principle on which this increase was demanded. They were not asking the House to vote a war salary to the Judge of the Admiralty, but they asked the House, now at a time of peace, to vote such a salary as would form a mean between what the Judge received in time of war and what he received in time of peace. He did not think that this Judge ought to be in such a position that his emoluments should be high at one time and low at another, but his salary ought to be equal at all times and regularly paid. A few years ago an alteration was made in Ireland, and the salary of the judge of the Prerogative Court in that country was fixed at 3,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Williams  observed, that no advance of salary had been made to Lord Stowell, to Sir Christopher Robinson, or to Sir John Nicholl; and the country was not in a better state now than formerly to give an increased salary. He had been told, that the judge of the Admiralty Court had sat only twenty-four days during the last year; but if the number of days had been double, the present salary was quite sufficient. He objected to the increase because the country was not in a condition to make it.
 The Solicitor-general  regretted, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny should have suggested that this increase had been made because the present judge of the Admiralty Court was one of their party. The hon. Member must, he thought, feel satisfied that no case more imperiously called for an increase of salary. The hon. Member said, there was at present very little business in that court; but it was most important to have there at all times a judge competent to do the business that was to be clone, and to get such a person he must be taken from a class of the highest professional eminence. It was a miserable economy to run the risk of not being being able to procure the services of men of the first eminence. Was it prudent or consistent with sound policy to make it the interest of the judge, who had to adjudicate questions not of  meum tuum,
 Dr. Lushington  said, that as he was thus personally called on, he had no hesitation in declaring, that though it might not be inexpedient in principle to rescind prospectively the rule which excluded from the court all advocates who were not doctors in civil law, still in practice it would be productive of considerable injury to the present advocates in that court to let in upon them suddenly a new class of competitors who had not acquired the same qualifications or undergone the same long and laborious ordeal with themselves. The advocates in the High Court of Admiralty must have acquired their degrees of doctor in civil law in a strictly regular way, for if the degree were obtained by any grace or favour, it was not sufficient to admit the person so obtaining it to practise as an advocate in that court.
 Lord John Russell  thought, that the hon. Member had not paid sufficient attention to this measure. The object of the bill was to alter the principle on which the Judge of the Admiralty Court had hitherto been paid, and instead of the payment by fees to pay the Judge, a fixed and permanent salary. During the time of war, owing to the increase of fees, the emoluments of this office had amounted to between eight and nine thousand a-year, whilst in time of peace the salary was under four thousand a-year. He thought that it was very objectionable that a person filling an office of this kind should receive a salary liable to so much variation in its amount, and that was a reason why it was thought much better to fix it. In making this provision, however, the hon. Gentleman would perceive, that the amount of salary had been fixed considerably lower than what the Judge was in the habit of receiving in time of war.
 Mr. C. Wood  had omitted to mention, that by this bill there was a considerable increase of business thrown on the Admiralty Court, by the extension of its jurisdiction.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, Lord Stowell had had the benefit of his war income for sonic years. If the hon. Member who spoke last would refer to the evidence before the committee of 1833, he would find, that
 350 l.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he found, that in point of form it would be impossible to go on with this clause, as a preliminary resolution would be required.
 Mr. Hume  proposed, as an amendment, the insertion of certain words, which would give to all barristers indiscriminately the power of practising in the High Court of Admiralty. At present the practice in that court was monopolised by the doctors of civil law.
 Mr. Hume  did not like that the Liberal party should be reproached with having increased the salary of this office when filled by one of their friends, after Sir John Nichol, and his predecessors had received only the lower salary. If the increase was fit to be made, it ought to have been made when preceding judges were in office; but he thought it a most unfit time to acid to the salary, when a judge had little or no duty to perform. If the learned judge had a duty to perform at the Privy Council, he would rather give him a salary of 1,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  did not see the necessity of providing for time of war, for whenever such a time arrived, which he trusted would be far distant, it would then be early enough to provide for an increase of salary. They had an assurance from her Majesty at the commencement of the Session, that there was every prospect of the continuance of peace in Europe, and he certainly did not see the reason for providing for such a remote contingency.
 349
 Mr. Hume  objected to the increase of salary which was proposed to be given by this bill to the Judge of the Admiralty Court. He did not think that either the duties which this learned functionary was called on to perform nor the present state of the revenue warranted this increase of salary which was proposed to be given by this clause. He thought it would be very desirable to know, whether any increased duties were to be thrown upon the Judge of the Admiralty Court by this bill, for he certainly saw no reason for coming forward, under the present circumstances of the country, to propose this increase of salary.
 Mr. Sheil  supported the amendment. Catholics and other Dissenters were at present disqualified from acting in this court, because they could not obtain the necessary degrees in the English Universities.
 Mr. Wakley  was really much obliged to Government for not proposing a higher salary than 4,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Wakley  supported the amendment. Perhaps the learned judge of the court, as the money clauses of the bill were postponed, would favour the Committee with his opinion as to the propriety of opening the court.
 Sir R. Inglis  agreed with the Solicitor-general, that it was important to have a judge of the highest eminence, as his decisions might influence the great question of peace or war. Those who recollected the decisions of our Court of Admiralty in the time of the Orders in Council would be aware how materially those decisions affected our foreign relations.
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that his object in rising to address the House on the present occasion was, to show the situation of the business, or rather of the suitors now in the Court of Chancery—to point out the assistance Which that Court might receive from the
 400 401 l 402 l l., l l l 403 l., l l l 404 bonâ fide malâ fide 405 Nisi Prius. Nisi Pries, "And whereas, by reason of the great increase of business on the common law or plea aide of the said Court of Exchequer, the Lord
 406 Nisi Prius, Nisi Príus 407 Nisi Prius. functus officio." 408
 Mr. Goulbourn  expressed his gratification at hearing the noble Lord's opinion that the disturbers of the public peace did not comprise a large proportion of the operatives. This had always been his own conviction, entertaining, as he did, a most favourable view of the good sense of the general body of the working classes. He believed that those who were led astray were certainly rather the dupes of designing demagogues than voluntary disturbers of the public peace, and it was precisely this which caused him to feel the greater jealousy and regret when he found that more prompt and energetic measures were not adopted for nipping such outrages in the bud, and for dealing effectually with the agitators and authors of them. The result of such forbearance was to encourage the guilty, and to compromise the innocent. As to the noble lord-lieutenant for Warwick, he could not but complain of the manner in which that noble Lord's name had been introduced into the statement of the noble Lord opposite, in the absence of any of the noble Lord's Friends who were instructed as to the circumstances of the case.
 Mr. Wolverley Attwood  had that morning received a letter from Birmingham, which stated that there was a general anticipation of a renewal of the outrages, and that the townspeople were by no means satisfied that the means in the hands of the magistrates would be promptly or effectively employed; and it was desirable to know whether the noble Lord opposite intended to give the people of Birmingham better protection than that afforded by the magistrates, by the introduction of some other power into the town on this pressing emergency. It was his decided opinion, that if the magistrates had done their duty promptly, none of these scenes would have occurred. The mob themselves beforehand stated that they were encouraged to their proceedings by the supineness of the magistrates, and their expectation that they would not promptly interfere.
 Mr. Pryme  said, the noble Lord opposite seemed to imagine that the Lord-lieutenant of Warwick had no power in Birmingham, because there was a corporate body there; but he was not aware of any Act of Parliament which gave to the corporation or magistrates of Birmingham an exclusive jurisdiction.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the Bill would prevent timber ships from carrying their cargo on deck. Why should such a bill be temporary? The hon Member applied it to the cargoes between this and Christmas. A measure of this kind should be prospective. If a bill of this description were to be permanent, it ought to apply to the autumn rather than to the spring voyage. Of 309 timber ships lost between 1832 and 1838, 252 were of the autumn voyage. The evidence assigned not only the lading timber on the decks, but the bad quality of the ships, as the cause of the disasters which were so frequent. Yet this important fact was slurred over by the Committee. They had not given the character and quality, not merely of the ships lost, but of the whole number engaged in the trade, information necessary to test the correctness of these inferences, respecting the causes of those disasters. And he could not agree in the conclusion of the Committee, that good vessels were as frequently lost in proportion, as bad vessels. He had taken the trouble to analyze the returns, and had found that of 78 vessels lost, 44 were lost going out, therefore it could not have been from carrying timber cargoes. Of the remaining 34, 27 were either bad ships, or deficient in stores, &c. He admitted that there was a body of the evidence attributed in part the loss of vessels returning from America, to carrying part of the cargo on deck; an equal body of testimony attributed it to the bad quality of the vessels employed. The Committee had slurred over every thing, but what was their "hobby," which did not seem to be properly performing their duty. This bill was only for one year; the views of the hon. Member as to any permanent measure, were not known. It was to be hoped that the hon. Member would restrict his legislation to the autumn voyages.
 Mr. P. Thompson  was no great friend to this kind of legislation, but he thought a case had been established, showing the danger of deck loads, and calling for legislative interference; he should, therefore, give his support to the bill, coupled with the conditions of his hon. Friend confining its operation to the autumn voyages. As this was merely an experiment, he thought it better to make it a temporary measure.
 Mr. Chapman  said, this was a bill required by humanity, and requested by the shipowners themselves, and therefore he was glad there was no opposition. The object of the bill was to relieve old ships by doing away with deck loads, which were carried in no other trade. He was happy that there was no opposition to this bill, which would greatly benefit the trade.
 Mr. Barnard  supported the bill, and thought it ought to apply to spring as well as autumn voyages, as he thought deck loads ought never to be carried.
 Mr. G. Palmer  replied, that he did not propose this as a permanent bill, because he thought that was the duty of her Majesty's Government on a point of so much importance. The Committee had not slurred over any evidence, but had been anxious to obtain every information in their power. It was clear that losses had taken place to a great extent, in situations in which no such losses ought to have happened, occasioned solely by faulty stowage, and faulty management. The loss to the owners would be nothing by prohibiting deck-loads, as the difference in insurance and charges would more than compensate them.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the observations of the hon. Member for Bridport were hardly fair; all his suggestions were regarding matters to be discussed in Committee. He would not detain the House longer than to express his admiration of the manner in which the Committee had made out a case calling imperiously, in the name of humanity, for legislative interference.
 Mr. Hume  suggested, whether it would not be more efficient to prevent bad ships being employed, by permitting an increased rate of insurance being taken, because as long as they could be insured, merchants would send mere rafts to sea.
 Admiral Adam  said, that what had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny would be properly discussed in Committee, and ought to be attended to.
 Mr. Williams  seconded the amendment.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, if hon. Members were determined to persevere in this course he must in justice to himself enter into an explanation of the objects and nature of the bill. The interests not only of Ireland, but England were involved in this vote, and if the House were to adopt the proposition of the hon. Member, they would go in direct variance to the decision of Parliament and their duty to the people of Ireland. A bill had passed that House, which had received the sanction of the other branch of the Legislature, in which the whole principle of the Shannon vote had been affirmed. The act to which he alluded was passed in 1835, which recited, that it was expedient, that the expenses of the proposed improvement in the Shannon should be borne out of the public funds. It had been supposed that the measure was brought forward now for the first time, and for private interests. No one who had ever turned their attention to the subject but must know, that it had been under consideration for centuries—that it had been recommended under the secretaryship of Edmund Spenser—also under the administration of Sir John Davis the improvement of the Shannon was considered as a national object, and also in the time of Lord Bacon, who was a high authority. He was almost ashamed to take up the time of the House upon the question, but the object of the bill had been much misunderstood, and he felt it his duty to state the matter fully to the House. The experiment of leaving the improvement of the Shannon to private enterprise had already been tried, but it had entirely failed. Private speculation might do very well for the improvement of a small river, but to improve a river of 170 miles in length required greater resources. The question had been agitated since the time of Elizabeth, and was under the consideration of every government since that time, and in 1831, Colonel Burgoyne, Mr. Mudge, Mr. Rhodes, and Mr. Cubitt made a report, in which they said, it was surprising that so noble a river as the Shannon should be in such a state of neglect; and they further said, the improvement of it would be for the advantage of both countries. Again, in 1834, a Select Committee, composed of Gentlemen of all parties—of English, Irish, and Scotch Members, sat, and having inquired into the subject, they reported that the Government ought to
 425 l. l. l. l. 426 l.
 Captain Wood  would readily give his vote for money to be given in aid of public works in Ireland, knowing that the expenditure of money in improvements tended towards the improvement of the country; but he would not consent to the reckless issue of Exchequer bills. He was prepared, as far as he was concerned, to take the proper means for providing a revenue for such a purpose, but he would not consent to incur a debt without providing the means to meet it. Exchequer bills were issued for every deficiency. There would probably be a deficiency in the revenue foam the contemplated alteration in the postage of letters, which would be so met, and he would not consent to this means of raising money. He was quite sure, the course they were taking with regard to the revenue was not only injurious to the credit and faith of the country, but that it was a course likely to involve the country in difficulties they would never be able to surmount.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was probable the proposed works in the Shannon might not be completed in six, seven, eight, or nine years, so that the intended expenditure would be extended over the whole of that time. Let him add, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member, that the principle of issues of Exchequer bills, and to a very large amount, for the promotion of public works, was not at all a new principle. In a late period of the government of which the late Lord Castlereagh was a member, that noble Lord recommended an issue of Exchequer bills for
 427 l., l. l.,
 Captain Wood  would object to any issue of Exchequer bills for public works as long as there was a deficiency in the revenue.
 Mr. O'Connell  admired the generosity of the gallant Gentleman. The gallant Gentleman would be glad, forsooth! to do good to Ireland, but he would vote no money. When he was asked for money to carry out his good intentions, his generosity oozed out, and became a mere  caput mortuum. l. 428
 Mr. Williams : notwithstanding the observations of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, should give his vote against the principle of the grant. In the present state of the finances of the country, and with the discontent which prevailed amongst our population from the pressure of taxation, the Government ought not to propose such grants. Hon. Members might talk of the distress which prevailed in Ireland, but they should also consider the distress, and its consequent discontent, which prevailed in England. By the bill before the House, he did not see how the proposed advance was to be repaid. The bill provided that certain tolls should be levied on the navigation of the Shannon, but then he perceived that any surplus, after defraying expenses, was to be applied by the commissioners as they should think fit; but he saw nothing about the repayment of the advance. If there was to be a remunerating profit on those tolls, it would be another thing; but there was no reason to expect anything of the kind. The outlay required in such works was always far beyond the first estimate. The first estimate of the expense of the Caledonian Canal, as made by the late Sir John Rennie, was 350,000 l., l., l. 429
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the surplus of the tolls, after the payment of expenses, would be carried to the public account. This however was a matter which would more properly come for discussion in the committee, and he had no objection to make the clause for that object more stringent.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that only one commissioner was to be paid, and he was to receive the same salary as the junior Member of the Board of Works, which, he believed, did not exceed 600 l.
 Mr. Ellis  would move, as an amendment, that there should be two instead of three commissioners, so that there should be no paid commissioner at all.
 Captain Wood  objected to the motion. It had been understood that this bill should be delayed until the Metropolitan Police Courts Bill had gone through Committee; and as be had amendments to propose in case certain provisions were continued in the latter bill, he should divide the House on the question of the third reading of the present bill.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that though there certainly was a connexion between the two measures, still it was not so close as to make the bill inoperative in case the other to which the hon. and gallant Member alluded should not pass into a law. The present bill had already been too long delayed, and as it had been fully discussed for fifteen hours in Committee, he trusted the hon. and gallant Member would not persist in his opposition.
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed the bill. Though the bill had been amended in Committee, still he entertained the opinion he had already expressed, that a more obnoxious and oppressive measure never had been introduced to Parliament.
 Mr. Wakley  said, he had opposed this bill as much as he possibly could; but as it had undergone several valuable amendments in Committee, he should not resist its third reading.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  trusted, that after consideration hon. Members would, considering the time the bill had been before the House, and taking into account also that not a single petition had been presented against the bill, with the exception of one from an individual which had been withdrawn, allow the bill to go into Committee. The public had been greatly deluded by statements that had been put forth relative to his having an interest in the bill; and it was his intention, when the bill was in committee, to rebut those statements.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, if the House would only go into a Committee it was his intention to enter fully into the details of the bill.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to say a few words before the House went into Committee on the Bill. It had been stated that he had a personal interest in the improvement of the navigation; he had no such thing, his property was forty or fifty miles from the Shannon, and no man had less personal interest in the measure than he had.
 Mr. Pryme  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down had spoken of the liberal feelings of certain hon. Members always stopping, whenever a grant of money was proposed for Ireland; but he had never understood that liberality in politics consisted in giving away the public money. It consisted in giving the people free and good Government, and franchises which they had never enjoyed before. If he considered that this was brought forward as part of a general and new principle for making grants for the public benefit, he should be content to go into committee on this bill, and to see there whether the present proposition was reasonable and commensurate with the object in view; but, unless that were shown to be the case, he must oppose it.
 Mr. Ellis  said, he certainly hoped the hon. Member opposite would press his amendment, which he would cordially support. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had taunted his (Mr. Ellis's) side of the House with a want of liberality towards Ireland; but by certain returns, which he had moved for some time ago, and which had recently been laid on the table by the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, although not yet printed, he found that since the union, there had been voted for Ireland no less than 8,827,141 l 432 433
 Captain Boldero  objected to the vote. If any man were to ask for such a sum for the improvement of the Thames, Humber, or any English river, he would be laughed at. Why, then, should they give money in one case, and refuse it in another. He thought that wherever money had been granted in a similar manner the committee had been in error. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had referred to the case of the Thames Tunnel, and said that 270,000 l.
 Captain Boldero  objected to it as oppressive. It gave power to boards of guardians in cases where the children of a pensioner were taken into a workhouse, to obtain repayment of the cost of their maintenance out of the man's pension. He would take the sense of the House upon the clause.
 Lord Granville Somerset  observed, that even if the Lord-lieutenant had been in the town he could not have done anything except as a magistrate; and if he was not a magistrate, he could do nothing at all. He thought, therefore, that it was most unjust that the noble Lord should be called over the coals in this manner. The hon. Member for Birmingham seemed to think rather lightly of what had happened; but he could not agree with the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member spoke of the affair as a misfortune which had fallen equally on friends and foes, which was the first time he had heard of rioters having friends at all among other classes. It was a most lamentable and strange thing, that the mob should have had full liberty for an hour and a half to perpetrate such violence, or that any attempt should be made in that House to modify the character of these outrages.
 Lord John Russell  had made no charge against the noble Lord in question. At the same time he could not but remark that it was generally the practice for lords-lieutenant of counties, to whatever side of politics they belonged, to communicate with the Secretary of State respecting any peculiar circumstances which happened in their counties; he thought that if the noble Lord in question had wished to obtain information as to what had occurred, and as to what it was desirable he should do, it might have been better for him to have proceeded to the Secretary of State's office on the subject rather than to have
 416
 Lord J. Russell  said, the hon. Member was quite right; but he should have thought it a great misfortune if the magistrates for the county, not being also magistrates for the town, had taken occasion to interfere with the town. As to what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, he begged to say that nothing
 419
 Lord John Russell  said, Sir, I have not the least objection to answer the question of the hon. Member; but I could not do so properly by merely confining myself to
 409 410 411 412 413 414 To the Right Honourable Lord John Russell, Secretary of State for the Home Department. "Declaration of the undersigned operstives of the liberties of Longton and Lane End, Staffordshire Potteries:—Finding that we share in the stigma cast upon our town, by the late riotous and disorderly proceedings manifested therein, we deem it prudent to repel such calumny, come from what quarter it may, by disavowing all participation in such conduct, or the feelings which originated in it, assuring your Lordship that our ardent desire was, is, and we hope ever will be, that peace should prevail throughout our town. We do, therefore, call upon all our fellow townsmen, filling what stations in society they may, to set a peaceable example, and unite with us for the preservation of peace and good order." 415
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought, considering the miserable state in which the Government were placed at the present moment, the House ought not to proceed further
 423
 Colonel Sibthorp  inquired what salaries were to be given to the Commissioners?
 Mr. F. French  said, that when it was objected to this measure, that the people of Ireland did not spend their own money in public improvements, he would say, that had they been allowed to avail themselves of their own resources, they would not now have asked for this assistance from England—no, not from England, but from the British Empire. He saw by returns which were made to this House in 1833, that for several years before 512,000 l. l.
 Mr. F. French  thought, that they ought to go into Committee on the Bill, in which stage any explanation might be given that was required.
 Mr. Finch  must protest against proceeding further with the bill, as no explanation had been given yet of the necessity for so great a sum as was asked for by the measure. He would move, as an amendment, that the bill should be taken into further consideration that day three months.
 Mr. Goulburn  wished that this understanding was always acted upon. The noble Lord opposite seemed to complain that he was not in the habit of hearing from the noble lord-lieutenant of Warwickshire. He new nothing of the circumstances of the case, but he had known Lord Warwick for a number of years, and he could safely say, that he believed there did not exist a more honourable man than that noble Lord—a man more unlikely to do anything ungentlemanly or unbecoming his situation. He had that entire reliance on the noble Lord, that he did not believe he had taken any course which he was not fully prepared to justify.
 Mr. Plumptre  said, he thought the Government was not justified in proposing a grant of such an amount for such a purpose as this, in the present falling state of the revenue.
 Mr. Hume  said, that it would have been but a proper proceeding on the part of the hon. Gentleman, as he seemed so much in the confidence of the mob, had he gone and given the Secretary of State a warning of what their intentions were, and let him into a few of their secrets. Further, he thought it desirable that the hon. Gentleman should state to the House whence came the letter which he had mentioned as expressing an anticipation of renewed outbreaks, and a belief that the magistrates would be tardy in their proceedings. It was desirable to know who it was that thus inculpated the magistrates if only to learn the grounds on which they founded their opinions. It appeared to him, that this, at least, was not the proper time or place for bringing forward such a charge against the magistrates. Again, while complaints were thus being made against the magistrates of Birmingham for neglecting their duty, he should like to ask where the Lord-lieutenant of Warwick whose duties on such an occasion were so peculiarly important—where that noble Lord was, whether he was at his post, whether he was down at Birmingham, now that that town was stated elsewhere to be "in a situation almost worse than
 418
 Mr. Hume  said, that whatever might be the policy of the existing law, the present clause would be an impovement.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the House were entitled to have an explanation from the Chancellor of the Exchequer relative to the large sum that was required for this work before they went into Committee.
 Mr. Scholefield  said, that the expression he had used was, that it appeared to be an indiscriminate plundering attack upon friends and foes; and he had illustrated this by adding that one of the houses plundered was that of an old friend of Reform. The mob appeared to have gone from house to house.
 Mr. Scholefield  hoped the House would permit him to say a few words, under the peculiar circumstances in which he was placed. He felt sure that the magistrates of Birmingham would be able to satisfy the House and the country that no blame or neglect was justly attributable to them. The question was entirely one of time. From the information he had received, he understood the case to be this, that at the very first appearance of riot, Redmond, a very active police officer of the town, took a coach, and went in all haste to the house of his (Mr. Scholefield's) son, the mayor of of Birmingham, who lived about a mile out the town, and that his son proceeded immediately to the town, accompanied by Dr. Booth, and was with the other magistrates on the ground at shortly after half-past nine. As the riot did not break out till half-past eight, there could hardly have been any very great neglect or omission on the part of the magistrates. As to the police not being allowed to act, it must be borne in mind that the magistrates were much censured for the conduct of the police on the former occasion; and the very charge which was brought against the magistrates for unnecessary severity on that occasion was the reason why they did not wish the police to act again without themselves being at their head. There was not the slightest expectation of any outbreak: these occurrences came upon the magistrates quite unexpectedly. It was due to his fellow-townsmen and to the magistrates of Birmingham to state, that he believed that the statements which had been made as to the injury done were great
 417
 Mr. D. Browne  said, he had thought that the hon. Member for Coventry belonged to that party which was called "Liberal;" but it appeared that they were only liberal towards Ireland when it cost them nothing; for when the money of England was to be voted for Ireland, they were just as great monopolists as the hon. Gentlemen opposite. This was, in his opinion, one of the strongest arguments for the repeal of the union, and all men who had the honour and good of Ireland at heart, ought on that ground to join the hon. and learned Member for Dublin in agitating to attain that object.
 Mr. Wakley  thought it a most harsh clause. By giving the guardians a prior claim over a man's pension, it would make it impossible for him to assign it to anybody.
 Mr. Wakley  begged to suggest to the noble Lord the Secretary at War the propriety of adopting some arrangement for paying pensions weekly, instead of quarterly, as at present. He was often in the neighbourhood of Chelsea, and had witnessed scenes of the utmost wretchedness there, owing to the improvident manner in which the pensioners expended their pensions when they received considerable sums at a time.
 Mr. Wakley  said, he considered that this grant would be a most improvident and improper application of the public money; but, if any measure were brought forward for squandering the money of the people, it was sure to be carried. He knew very well that this measure would be carried. Yes, the propositions would be carried, and the money expended. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had said, that if you improved the Shannon, you then brought those who held farms on the banks within thirty-six hours' journey of Lancashire. But what was it for? Only to convey away the food of the people of Ireland. [ Cries of Oh! oh! 431
 Mr. Mackinnon,  in giving notice of his intention to bring the subject of the late riots at Birmingham under the consideration of the House, would take that opportunity of asking the noble Lord whether he were prepared to afford the House any information relative to those occurrences. The question which he wished to ask the noble Lord was this, whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Government that any investigation should take place with regard to tile conduct of the mayor and magistrates of that town, relative to the riots which had taken place there on Monday night, and which, in consequence of the apathy evinced by the mayor and magistrates, had continued for several hours?
 Sir E. Codrington  thanked the hon. Member for Finsbury for the suggestion, which would be of great utility. The objections of the noble Lord could be easily met by making weekly payments the regular rule, and holding over the payments until the end of the quarter for those who might desire it.
 Lord Clements  informed the hon. Member for Newry, that all the maps and plans he desired were before the House. He was surprised to hear the proposed grant called a profligate expenditure of the public money, for one-half was to be supplied by Ireland, and the other half was to be refunded from the tolls of the river. He never heard a more shabby, illiberal, and disgraceful argument against a national advantage.
 Viscount Howick  said, that although he was most anxious to adopt any measure which could check the improvidence to which the hon. Member alluded, there would be great difficulty in adopting the plan of weekly payments, because it would put an injurious restraint upon industrious men, by compelling them to appear so frequently at a particular place to receive their allowances.
 Viscount Howick  said, it had always been the policy of Parliament to prevent any assignment whatever of a soldier's pension under the severest penalties. The only exception was in the case of the parochial authorities who ought to be compelled to support the pensioner or his family.
 Viscount Howick  said, that as the law now stood the guardians had the power to which the hon. Member objected. The object of the clause was to prevent the exercise of that power from being oppressive or unjust to the pensioner.
 Mr. Hutt,  before the bill was read a third time was anxious to say a few words to the House. Although he did not support with his vote the resolution proposed by the hon. Member for Leeds with respect to this measure, he thought that any
 495
 Mr. Leader  also wished to say a few words on this bill before it passed a third reading. He concurred with his hon. Friend who had proceeded him as to the propriety of not offering any opposition to the bill in its present stage, but he objected to the bill in the first place because he looked upon it as a mere continuation of the Coercion Bill of last Session—he objected to it because it was a measure the Government ought not to have introduced this Session (for they ought to have brought forward, as they had promised, a measure for the permanent settlement of a representative Government in Canada)—and he objected to it, because it contained clauses such as no bill ought to pass with: he alluded to the clauses giving to the temporary Government of Lower Canada the power of taxation, and of making permanent laws against the
 496 497 l., l. l., Toronto Examiner, 498
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he was not one of those who thought that the Government could have done much more during the present Session with respect to Canada, unless they had restored, or proposed to restore, the constitution of Lower Canada, which, as he considered, would have been the wisest and best measure they could have pursued, as the preliminary to any scheme for uniting the two provinces. He had reason to express the deepest regret that the quarrel in Canada should have taken a religious turn, and that the people should be separated, not by political disputes alone, but that these were aggravated by religious dissensions which were fomented by the Executive Government. Now, he appealed to the right hon. Gentleman, the Under Secretary for the colonies, whether the officers in command, both in Lower and Upper Canada, more especially in the latter, had not testified in the strongest terms the spirit of generous loyalty, and the active support of Government, both in and out of the field, on the part of the Irish and Scotch Roman Catholics in Canada during the recent disturbances; and whether the Governor of Upper Canada had not represented this gratifying circumstance in the the strongest terms to the Government at home? Ought the reward of this loyalty and of these active services to be an increase in the number of Orange lodges? By a communication which he had recently received from Canada he learned that there were now in active operation in Canada no fewer than 254 Orange lodges, regularly officered for holding
 499
 Mr. Labouchere  agree with the hon. and learned Member, that nothing could be more lamentable than that the spirit of religious animosity should be suffered to unite itself to the numerous social evils which already existed in Canada. He had believed that it was almost wholly eradicatd in that province. He could assure the hon. and learned Member, that so far from any encouragement having been given to the Orange lodges, or to any exclusive association of any religious sect whatsoever in Canada—so far from any such encouragement having proceeded from the Government at home, nothing was more contrary to their wish. He had stated a
 500
 Mr. Hume  said, that the home Govern-
 501 l.
 Sir George Grey  said, the hon. Member for Kilkenny had stated, that with regard Orange lodges in Canada the Colonial Department had been entirely inactive; that no dispatch had been sent out on the subject to Sir F. Head. If this were a just charge, it would be a heavy one; but it so happened that the hon. Member on two occasions before had made the same charge, and that on both these occasions the despatch which had been sent out to Sir F, Head on the subject had been laid
 502
 Mr. Hume,  in explanation, said that the right hon. Gentleman might produce a dispatch sending out the order to Sir F. Head, but not a despatch condemnatory of the answer of Sir Francis Head to the House of Assembly.
 Mr. C. Buller  could not help stating, that he considered some of the charges made against the local Government of Upper Canada much exaggerated. As to whether the measures adopted to check the formation of Orange lodges were vigorous or not, it was a matter of opinion. But he could not help thinking, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin must have been misinformed as to public officers in Upper Canada joining in such proceedings. The subject had been brought under Lord Durham's notice, by an address from the Roman Catholics of Toronto and its neighbourhood, complaining in strong terms of the outrages to their feelings of party processions on the 12th of July. And that processions had taken place, there was no doubt. But with regard to official persons taking part in them, he believed it was a mistake, for this reason—he knew that Colonel Buller, who was adjutant-general was at one period an Orangeman. It was made matter of complaint against him, and he withdrew from the society. He did not believe, that any other persons in office were connected with Orange lodges, except perhaps Colonels of the militia, and if in making a levy  en masse, 503
 Sir George Grey  begged to inform the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that the despatch to which he had referred was dated August 24, 1836.
 Mr. Langdale  said, that he had received very strong representations with respect to the system of Orange societies in Canada, from quarters on which he could place implicit reliance. A letter had been written to a friend of his by a lady residing at Richmond in Upper Canada, in which it was stated, that Orange processions had taken place in that town,
 504
 Lord G. Somerset  hoped the noble Lord would not proceed with this bill at so late a period of the Session. This bill introduced totally new provisions respecting matters of rural police; respecting the trial of offences at Petty Sessions; the imprisonment of offenders; it changed the whole jurisdiction of the magistracy from beginning to end; and it ought not to be forced forward at that time. The clauses of the bill were very complex in their nature, and were open to numerous objections, the discussion of which would occupy many hours.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  wished to ask whether the noble Lord were determined, in such a House as he had the honour to address, and at that period of the Session, to proceed with this bill? He was sure that the noble Lord did not underrate the importance of this bill. At the present moment a large number of those Members who were in the Commission of the Peace were unavoidably absent. No doubt many of those Members would have felt it their duty to express their opinions with respect to this measure, and whatever might be the merits of the general principle of the measure every clause of it ought to be, and must be, subject to great discussion. He would not say that some good might not come from such a measure as the present; but he must tell Gentlemen opposite that if they thought themselves justified in pressing forward this measure, that opinion was exclusively their own; but he did hope that the further consideration of this bill would be postponed.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that this bill, which had been described by the noble Lord opposite as totally new, contained thirty or forty clauses that were taken from a bill which was passed by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, in the year
 506 507
 Colonel Wood  said, that there was one expression made use of by the noble Lord which had just sat down, which he thought was not justified. The noble Lord spoke of Gentlemen choosing to keep away. Now, considering that the House had been sitting since February, he did not think that Members ought to be reproached for non-attendance at this period. The noble Lord might succeed in forcing this bill through the House, but at that late period of the Session, it was utterly impossible that the bill could pass the other House of Parliament.
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, that this bill could not be discussed with advantage at that period of the Session, and he, therefore, must add his entreaties to those that had been already made, that this bill might not be proceeded with. It was generally supposed in the country, that the bill had been abandoned for the present Session, or at least that there was very little prospect of its passing into a law.
 Sir E. Wilmot  hoped, and requested that the noble Lord would persevere with this bill, and for this reason; if the bill had been brought in and discussed for the first time, he should agree with many of those on that side of the House, that at this period of the Session, and in such a House, the noble Lord would not be justified in bringing this bill forward. But he found, that ten years since, the noble Lord himself was Chairman of a Committee which sat to investigate this subject, and a report was drawn up, recommending some measure of this sort. Another Committee subsequently sat, of which the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, was Chairman; and again a report was drawn up, recommending a summary jurisdiction bill of this sort. When he had the honour of being sent to that House in 1832, he also brought in a bill on this subject, and again last year he brought in a bill to the same effect, which underwent considerable discussion. To say, therefore,
 508
 Mr. Darby  reminded the House, that this measure embraced much more than the bill which had been introduced ten years ago, and should not, therefore, be assented to on the ground, that Parliament was familiar with its provisions. He regretted that the noble Lord had determined to persevere with this measure.
 Mr. Liddell  thought, that some remedy was required for the evil which this bill proposed to remedy; but he thought it improper to go on with it at the present period of the Session, particularly when the fact of its being postponed for so long a time led the people in the country to believe that it was abandoned altogether.
 Lord J. Russell  remarked, that with regard to the latter part of the hon. Member's observation, he always found, that when a bill concerning country matters was introduced, the cry was, "Don't proceed with it until the quarter sessions meet and the justices have time to consider its provisions;" and if it happened to be postponed to a late period of the Session, it was then exclaimed, "The magistrates have no time to consider the measure." If he were to consent to postpone this bill to next Session, the probability was, that the estimates bills relating to Canada, to ecclesiastical revenues, and Church leases, would, as in the present Session, require the immediate consideration of the House, and that he should be compelled to put this measure off until as late a period as that at which it was introduced this Session. He could not, therefore, undertake to bring in the bill next year.
 Mr. Estcourt  would not offer any objection to the bill going into Committee, as far as he was concerned; but he took it for granted, that the noble Lord, in a matter of so much general importance, if he found, during the progress of the measure, that the House was not well attended, would not persevere without information from all parts of the country in carrying a measure of such an extensive nature.
 Mr. Turner  said, he had found from experience, that most business was done with the fewest number of hands. He hoped the noble Lord would do what the present Government professed to do—bring justice home to every man's door.
 Sir T. Acland  proposed to limit the operation of the clause to lives now existing, and moved to substitute "the 1st January, 1839," for the "4th of February, 1835."
 Mr. Hume  proposing that the blank be filled up with the words "the 5th of February, 1835."
 Lord John Russell  objected to the clause
 529
 Mr. Hume  bad no wish to give an advantage to either party. The object of his proposition was to do justice to both parties.
 Sir James Graham  thought the clause was due in strict justice to the lessees. So far from its giving an undue advantage to them, he was of opinion, that the course of legislation for the last four years had been most unjust to them. He certainly should support the amendment of the hon. Member for Kilkenny.
 Lord John Russell  objected, as it went back four years, and he should certainly divide against its adoption.
 Mr. Warburton  could not understand how the noble Lord could oppose the clause, after having so far adopted it as to have voted with the hon. Baronet for filling up the blank with the words "1st January, 1839;" thus, in fact, recognising the principle of the clause. What possible difference could the fact of the clause going back to an earlier period make as to the principle of it?
 Mr. Aglionby  had been unfairly treated. He had no personal interest in a moving the clause. He had formerly submitted the clause to the hon. Member for Chichester, who fully approved of it, and he was ready to have moved it when the report was brought up, but then the noble Lord had left the House. He had thus, however, only one other stage left, and had accordingly brought it forward on the third reading. The noble Lord now told them he could not accede to the clause. Was it not fair to assume, that when the noble Lord had acceded formerly to the clause in his place, that it would not meet with after opposition? He left it to the House and the public to decide. He regretted that he had been obliged to make these remarks, but the course followed by the noble Lord had left him no alternative.
 Lord John Russell  said, with respect to the understanding said to have been entered into between him and the hon. Member for Chichester, when that hon. Member spoke
 530
 Sir James Graham  must say, that according to the practice of the House the noble Lord was fully entitled to take the sense of the House against the clause.
 Mr. Law  rose, pursuant to notice, to move that this bill be committed that day six months. He very much regretted that a question of so much importance as was involved in the bill now before the House, should be discussed when there was so thin an attendance of Members. That deficiency in numbers he attributed to the late period of the Session, and to the exhaustion felt by many hon. Gentlemen after protracted and wearisome attention to the business of the House, and not to any indifference to this question. But a question of greater importance could scarcely be submitted to the consideration of Parliament, and therefore he was compelled to trouble the House with some lengthened remarks thereupon. His objection to the bill now before the House, applied both to the principles and to many of the details which were to be found in its numerous clauses. If he gained no other advantage from offering his opposition to the bill, he should, at least, probably draw from the opposite side of the House, and from those who were the authors of the measure, a declaration of those modifications which they were disposed to make. He found that by this bill an enormous amount of patronage was to be vested in the hands of the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He confessed that this was a circumstance of which he was jealous. He had the highest respect, apart from political considerations, for the noble Lord who presided with so much ability in the legal department of Ins office over the interests of the people; and if he could suppose that the noble Lord would have an opportunity of investigating the merits of every person offering himself for situations under this bill and under his jurisdiction, be might feel less disposed to press his opposition on that head, because
 532 l. l. l. 533 534 535 l. l. l. l. 536 537 certiorari; 538
 Mr. Hawes  said, that considering the hon. Gentleman who spoke last was a judge, he certainly had never heard a speech possessing so little of the judicial character, or more mixed up with party feeling. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that this bill grossly infringed upon the liberty of the subject in abolishing trial by jury in certain cases. Now the report of the Committee on which this measure, was founded, had undergone the most careful consideration: there were on that Committee Sir Robert Peel, Lord Hotham, Mr. Estcourt, Mr. Robert Clive, Sir Eardly Wilmot, and several other Gentlemen who sat on the same side of the House with the hon. and learned Gentleman, but none of them had dissented from the report. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that no Government, however bad, had hitherto ventured upon such a proposition as doing away with the trial by jury; but hon. Gentlemen must know, that it bad been done in an infinity of cases; that this principle formed part of the ordinary statute law of the country, as administered throughout England without a single complaint. Surely the hon. Gentleman could not be ignorant that this principle pervaded the whole of Sir R. Peel's admirable Act, consolidating the Criminal Laws of England, every statute in which was founded on the basis of summary jurisdiction. What said the third report of the criminal-law commissioners? They
 539 ad captandum 540 541 l. l. l. l. 542 543 544 545
 Mr. Law  wished to deny that he had made any attack or brought charges against the body of magistrates at the police offices. His observations were entirely confined to the immediate patronage that would be placed by this bill in the hands of the Ministers of the Crown. He did not insinuate that the salaries to be paid under this bill were too high, or that the gentlemen appointed would be overpaid. He denied that he had made any attacks on his brother magistrates. The hon. Gentle-
 546
 Mr. Hume  could not see what objection there could be to going into committee. Did the hon. and learned Gentleman object to the ameliorations which this bill would effect? If he did not, then the minor points to which he had alluded would be much better considered in committee. He was disposed to think, with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the salaries were too high, and, in his opinion the salaries of all the judges were too high. He thought they had erred in that extreme in the past, and he trusted that in this bill they would return to the just medium. He would entreat the House to consider well the provisions of this measure, and, as a member of the committee, on whose recommendations it had been framed, and judging by the evidence which had been adduced, he must say, that it was the unanimous wish to give the people a cheap means of obtaining justice, which they had not at present. He thought the bill would effect that end, and he therefore trusted that it would be calmly considered. It was no doubt true that many improper persons had been appointed magistrates; but he trusted that, under this bill, the Minister would pay due regard to the responsibility under which he was placed.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that when the hon. Member for Lambeth complained of the course which his hon. and learned Friend had adopted, the hon. Member must have known, that his hon. and learned Friend had only availed himself of a privilege which was common to all the Members of the House. His hon. and learned Friend had done no more than he was fully entitled to do, and the course which he had pursued was by no means unusual, for it was one which had frequently been followed in the present Session. There had been many instances of the principle of bills being discussed, upon the question that the Speaker do leave the chair. With regard to the remarks that had been made upon his right hon. and learned Friend and colleague not deciding as many cases as were decided by a police magistrate, the
 547
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that there was one
 548 l. l., l. 549
 Mr. Estcourt  bore testimony to the fact, that this bill was framed upon the recommendations of the committee of which the hon. Member for Lambeth was chairman; and he must say, as a Member of that committee, that he had never seen a chair filled with greater ability, or with a more complete freedom from party spirit.
 Mr. Law  objected to the use of the word "court" instead of "office."
 Mr. Hawes  contended, that Court was the proper appellation for a place in which justice was administered, and if it could add, as he believed it would, dignity to the place in which the poorer classes had so often to apply for justice, he thought it would be roost desirable.
 Mr. Law  objected, and moved the further consideration of the report on Monday.
 Mr. F. Mauls  was satisfied that there would be a full attendance of Members when the House met on the next day, and that a full discussion would be given to the measure. He therefore, hoped the hon. Member would not press his amendment.
 Mr. Lascelles  said, that the whole question depended upon the effect it would have upon the revenue; and after the statement of the President of the Board of Trade he thought that the House ought to feel perfectly satisfied on that head. If they were to sanction the principle that they were to do nothing if it interfered with individual interests, there would be a stop to legislation altogether. He should support the bill.
 Lord John Russell,  in answer to Mr. Hume, said he thought he should have been able to proceed with the County
 520
 Mr. A. Chapman  objected to the bill on the ground of the immense patronage which it would give to Government in the shape of the appointment of officers.
 Mr. P. Thomson,  on rising to propose that the House resolve itself into a Committee, said that the principle on which the bill was framed was very simple. At present the Treasury had power, upon the recommendation of the commissioners of customs, to constitute any port a port for warehousing goods. That power was confined by law to towns which were ports. But it was often difficult to determine what was a port, and what was not. A place having a river running up to it, which could scarcely be called navigable, might make application, and the authorities would have great difficulty in determining upon the legality of its claim. Frequent instances of this kind bad occurred. The object of the present bill was to extend to the Treasury the same power with respect to towns which it at present exercised with respect to ports. Thus the difficulties of which he had spoken would be removed, and considerable advantage would also be gained by the extension of the bonding system to inland towns. He felt sure that he need not press on the House the advantages of the bonding system to the trade of this country. They were so obvious, and had been so amply proved by experience, that the only question, probably which he would have to argue was this—that by extending the system to inland towns the revenue would suffer no damage whatever. He believed that the revenue would stiffer no injury from the change. Every security for the revenue which existed in the case of ports would be continued in towns under the bill. The same security would be continued which existed with respect to goods carried coastwise and goods carried from one warehouse to another—namely, a bond taken in double the amount of the duty to which the goods were liable. He would mention to the House one of the anomalies that existed in the present state of the law. If a man wished to convey goods from the port of Leith to Liverpool, he had under the present law full power to do so, in any way be pleased, by land, sea, or canal, and the revenue suffered no injury whatever in consequence of the bond. That system was found to work well. But if the same party wished to convey his goods from
 522 523
 Mr. Harvey  thought there was something very inconsistent in the course which the House was pursuing in regard to these bills, whose chief recommendations to their support seemed to be, that the promoters of them had incurred a very considerable expense, and that bad legislation should therefore be sanctioned. Why were those bills postponed? Because the consideration of the whole matter was referred to a select committee. That committee, which consisted of Gentlemen of all parties without regard to party feeling, sat a great many days, and came, after mature investigation, to an unanimous determination, with one exception. That exception related to one point—the patronage of appointing judges. The question on which the committee differed in that respect was, whether the patronage should be given to the Lord Chancellor, or to the magistrates of counties. The cause of that difference, and of the opposition which the minority of the committee encountered, originated in a doctrine, that there was a sort of hereditary right in some great families to dabble in the administration of public justice, and to set up a species of pecuniary standard which they raised in that respect. But, apart from that point, the committee were unanimous in the recognition of the great general principles of cheap justice to the people. He could not see on what grounds the noble Lord could suppose, that a general bill would encounter greater opposition in that House or elsewhere than a mass of these little bills. Why, then, should they hesitate to proceed with a general bill of a nature of this kind, which excited such interest throughout the country? Why should they allow it to be arrested in the way proposed, and permit the statute-book to be encumbered with a number of little measures tending to produce a great deal of public mischief? He trusted that his hon. Friend,
 521
 Mr. Warburton  said, the necessity of legislating on this subject arose from the present high duties. By removing those duties the seaports would enjoy a large share of the trade, as from their situation they were entitled to do; whilst the inland towns would derive from the change the benefits to which they were fairly entitled. He thought nothing more unfounded than the outcry which was raised against this bill by the seaport towns. He thought the House was bound to see that the inland towns received some compensation for the loss which they suffered in being shut out by the high duties from a participation in the general trade and warehousing of the country.
 Mr. Warburton : The longer the noble Lord delayed the general bill, the greater the opposition which it would encounter. There was nothing like trying. If the noble Lord did not try, how could they know whether the Opposition would prevent the measure from being passed this Session or not. "Fortune favoured the brave."
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that the only ground of opposition to this bill could arise from a desire to preserve the present monopoly to seaport towns. This bill would be of great advantages to his constituents, inasmuch as the effect of it must be to lower the present enormously high expenses of warehouseing at Liverpool and other seaport towns, and to diminish the rate of insurance in those warehouses.
 Mr. Brotherton  hoped, that whatever might be the fate of the general measure, the House would now allow these bills to be proceeded with.
 Mr. Hume  must persist in his objections, and take the sense of the House on the amendment.
 Mr. Hume,  as he observed the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department in his place, wished to ask what were the intentions of Government, in regard to the general bill. Every one who had had an opportunity of witnessing the benefits which the people of Scotland had derived from their system of county courts; must be desirous to see the advantages resulting from that system enjoyed by the people of England. The only way to obtain a general bill, in his opinion, was to refuse their assent to these separate bills. Early in the Session they had been put off from time to time on the assurance, that it was the intention of the Government to go on with the general bill. In justice to the country the Government ought to be urged to proceed with the general bill this Session. He, therefore, wished to know what were the intentions of Government, and hoped, that the proper information would be afforded to the House.
 Mr. Gisborne  brought up the report on the Warrington Small Debts Bill, and moved some amendments.
 Mr. P. Thompson  said, that the right hon. Baronet had alone introduced party politics into a discussion which ought to be totally free from such topics. He knew not whether the experience of the right hon. Gentleman in office led him to look with suspicion on every measure introduced under such circumstances as the present, but he thought his objections to this bill perfectly groundless, As to its being in-
 527 totidem verbis,
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, that it was unfair in the Government, and unjust to the parties interested, to introduce this bill at the present late period of the Session.
 Sir F. Trench  denied that this measure could be adopted without great danger to the revenue. Hon. Members might talk of a monopoly, but he did not think that seaport towns ought to be deprived of a right which they had long enjoyed, and which they had exercised for the benefit of the country.
 Mr. M. Philips  said, that his measure had been introduced in 1834, so that no Member could justly complain, that there had not been sufficient time for its consideration. The noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool stated, that the warehouses of Liverpool cost four millions. The duty on the goods warehoused in Liverpool was four millions annually, of which the town of Manchester and its environs paid onehalf—paying, in fact, every year, half the value of the warehouses of Liverpool. He was convinced, that this measure would confer great general advantages, and he cordially supported it.
 The Attorney-General  begged, in the name of his constituents, to return his warmest thanks to his right hon. Friend for bringing in this bill. As the law stood at present, the city of Edinburgh, which for all purposes ought to be considered a seaport, because it had no river running into the heart of it, was excluded from the benefits which seaports enjoyed. All towns should be placed upon an equal footing, whether they were one or fifty miles inland. He hoped, that this bill was the beginning of a system forgiving free trade to every part of the country. 'He felt confident, that all impartial Members would support this bill.
 Mr. Hutt  said, that all must agree, that this was a subject which involved very large property, and the ruin or welfare of a great number of individuals. It ought, therefore, to be approached with caution and consideration. He hoped, the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, would consent to withdraw the bill for the present Session, and that it would be introduced at an early part of the next Session, and referred to a committee up stairs, where there would be a full opportunity of considering all the circumstances of the case.
 Viscount Sandon  said, the view which he wished to express upon this subject would be more properly conveyed by a motion for a select committee (if the present period of the session did not preclude him from taking such a course) than by the motion with which it was his intention to conclude. Before they proceeded to admit the principle of this measure, they would do well to consider what the consequence would be of disturbing the value of the immense amount of property invested in warehouses upon the faith of a long system of legislation. He did not profess to have a knowledge of other ports than the one which he had the honour to represent, but of that he believed it no exaggeration to say, that the amount of property invested in warehouses was 4,000,000 l., 524 525
 Mr. Easthope  could not content himself with giving a silent vote on the very important measure under the consideration of the House, and felt bound to express his deep regret that a question involving such complicated and extensive public interests had not been brought forward at an early period of the Session, in order that the House might have had an opportunity of discussing its provisions with that deliberation which it required, and with a view to the adoption of such safe and salutary amendments as experience may have pointed out as proper to be engrafted on the provisions of the new system of the administration of the Poor-laws. It was obvious to every one who had attended to passing events, that much misconstruction and misunderstanding existed in the public mind in regard to the working of the Poor-law Amendment Act, calculated to produce great public mischief. Such being the case, and such the strong feeling which existed out of doors on this question, he deeply regretted that it had not been taken up on a day, and at a period of the Session, when due time and attention could have been devoted to its consideration, and steps adopted to do away with those erroneous opinions which existed, and also in some respects to soften and improve its administration. While he fully approved of the leading principle of the Poor-law Amendment Act—namely, its tendency to advance industry and discourage indolence, and thereby improve the character of the working classes, and was ready to admit that it had been attended with many beneficial results to the country at large—he could not conceal from the House that he felt considerable misgivings in regard to the manner in which the powers had in some instances been exercised by the commissioners, and that he entertained strong convictions that some alterations in that respect were essentially requisite. It happened to himself to become acquainted personally with two cases which had given him great pain. One of those cases occurred in the city of
 552 553
 Mr. Liddell  could not allow the present opportunity to pass without saying that he entertained great objection to the prolongation of the powers of the Poor Law Commissioners. He was one of the committee which last year sat upon this subject, and he could not now refrain from publicly stating in the House, that from many material portions of the report of the committee, he did most conscientiously dissent. His objections to the bill brought forward by the noble Lord, were of such a nature, that he might possibly have been prevailed upon to agree to it, if the powers
 554 555 556 557
 Mr. Briscoe  intended most heartily and sincerely to support the bill brought in by the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department. The hon. Member who had just sat down spoke of the great powers of the Commissioners as having been most unwisely placed in their hands; but he (Mr. Briscoe) believed, that those powers had been, with few exceptions, most wisely and judiciously exercised, and he was convinced, that unless they had been so conferred, the provisions of the Poor-Law Amendment Act would never have been carried into effect with anything like uniformity. The hon. Member opposite had objected to this law, as affecting the civil liberties of the subject, but he (Mr. Briscoe) contended, that the law could not be viewed in that light. The civil liberties of the people were not affected, nor had the Commissioners power to exercise any sovereign will and pleasure, but were bound to act in accordance with the law. The points of objection to which the hon. Member for Durham had principally alluded were the bastardy clauses. It was true, he had heard complaints made as to the cruelty of those clauses, and upon the hardship on women, but he was at a loss to understand why these complaints should be made. Under the old law had been very great grounds of complaint; he had frequently heard it stated, at the Courts of Quarter Sessions, that the unhappy mother of an illegitimate child was working on the tread-wheel, while her offspring was laid
 558 559
 Sir E. Knatchbull  thought the more convenient course would have been to allow the order of the day to be read, and then to proceed to the discussion of the merits of the Poor-law Act, on the amendment of which the hon. Member for Sussex (Mr. Darby) had given notice. He (Sir E. Knatchbull) perfectly agreed in the opinion expressed by the hon. Member who had just sat down, that much good had resulted from the existing law, and he believed that as far as the management of the workhouses were concerned, the boards of guardians did their duty satisfactorily.
 Mr. Wilbraham  regretted that the bill had not been introduced at an earlier period of the Session. The Poor-law Amendment Act depended for success on a fair and equal mode of administration, and from that view he gave his support to the present bill.
 Mr. W. Attzwood  said, it was his determination to divide the House against any further proceeding with this bill. But he wished in the first instance to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department, whether a report which it was stated in the report of the Poor-law Commissioners was intended to be made upon the subject of the continuance of their powers had been received by him, and if it had, why it had not been laid upon the Table of the House? He wished also to know whether the recommendations agreed to by the committee on the Poor-laws had been adopted and brought into action by the commissioners, because in the report of the commissioners before the House he found no mention made of those recommendations, or that any steps had been taken to carry them into effect. It had been said, that the disposition of the committee had been rather favourable to the Poor-law, and anybody who read the report and the evidence would see that there had been a great disposition on the part of the committee to consider that
 560 561
 Mr. Hindley  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, Sir E. Knatchbull, whether the statement he had made was not a correct one, and whether the diet of the able-bodied in the workhouse of the Thanet Union was not 6oz. of bread, and 1oz. of cheese, or half an ounce of butter, for breakfast; an ounce more bread for dinner; and the same quantity for supper? He would ask, further, if there was any variation in the diet except suet pudding twice or thrice a-week, and if the only beverage allowed was not water? He admitted the cleanliness and order of the workhouse, and the attention paid to the children; but he had remarked at the time to the board of guardians, whom he
 562 l.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  replied, that the hon. Member was in error when he stated that the land in that neighbourhood was let at 3 l. "Ramsgate, July 19, 1839. Sir,—Mr. Hindley is reported in the  Standard 563
 Mr. Hindley  said, it was not true that he had stated that the allowance was more than he could eat. On the contrary, he had made the same observations as to the dietary to the board of guardians that he had made to the House. It was true that he had approved of the general order and cleanliness of the establishment, but he certainly had refused to give a written testimony in favour of it on the ground that it might lead to misapprehension elsewhere, and the prudence of his conduct in this respect was now evident from the fact that even the partial approval lie had expressed was now attempted to be brought forward as a token of his general approbation of the whole system.
 Mr. C. Lushington  drew the attention of the noble Lord below him (Lord J. Russell) to a peremtory order issued in March, 1838, by the Poor-law Commissioners, to the assistant commissioners requesting them to insist upon the appointment by the board of guardians of chaplains to the workhouses. He wished to know whether the commissioners bad power to insist on such appointments being made. A case had been laid, he believed, before the law officers of the Crown, who declared the commissioners had such powers, but added, that the question was at present under the consideration of the Court of Queen's Bench. Had the noble Lord issued any instructions to the commissioners with a view to restrain them from harrassing the boards of guardians with directions to appoint chaplains to their workhouses?
 Mr. Wakley  observed, that the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir E. Knatchbull) had, with very proper finesse, contrived to divert the attention of the House from the question of the dietary of the Thanet Union workhouse, The right hon. Baronet had
 564 l. l. s. s. 565 Hear. 566
 Lord J. Russell,   though he wished to defer the discussion of the merits of the bill until the order of the day had been read, must make a few remarks in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury. With regard to the question of medical attendance, the hon. Member was certainly more efficient than any other Member to express an opinion, but for that very reason the hon. Member ought to be more cautious and guarded in the statements he made. The first intention of the commissioners had been to give the preference to the lowest tender for medical relief. He had, however, several conferences with them, and the result had been, that it was generally circulated, that they did not recommend the adoption of the lowest tender in all cases, nor when there were other offers of superior ability. At the same time it was quite impossible in every case to prevent more regard being paid to economy than skill; but his belief was, that the medical attendance on the poor had been better and more efficiently performed under the Poor-law Amendment Act than it had been before that act became the law of the land. Formerly medical relief had been matter of contract—the poor had been put out to auction at the lowest tender. The hon. Member did right in turning his attention to this subject; but he hoped, that with
 567
 Lord G. Somerset  looked upon the whole system with regard to medical re lief by tender as vicious. The word "tender" ought never to have been introduced. It was for the board of guardians to consider the proper mode of providing that relief. He could not concur in the propriety of having a medical Poor-law commissioner. He must, therefore, deprecate the appointment of Dr. Kay. His opinions with regard to the subjects of wages and of the bastardy clauses remained unchanged; and, while he could not vote with his hon. Friend behind him, he was bound at the same time to state his strong objection to many of the provisions of the Poor-law Amendment Act.
 Lord Worsley  considered it to be of the greatest importance that this bill should pass. It had been stated, that the rates had been increased by the Poor-law Amendment Act, while in point of fact he knew of their having been much diminished in many parts of the south of England.
 Mr. Darby  rose to propose an instruc-
 569 570 571 s. s., l. l. 572 ex post facto
 Mr. F. Maule  opposed the instruction, which would open a discussion of one of the main questions upon the Poor-law Amendment Act, that Act might, no doubt, be improved in many of its provisions, but it would be much better that the improvements should be contained in one Act, and not be introduced piecemeal.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, he very much regretted that a question of such great importance should be discussed in the absence of her Majesty's Ministers. He did not mean to deny that the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken was a fit representative of the department to which he belonged, but he could not avoid saying—without, however, intending anything in the least degree invidious—that on a great question of this kind the Government of the country ought not to be absent. In the motion which had been submitted to the House by his hon. Friend the Member for East Sussex he fully concurred. The question was simply nothing more nor less than this—were the Board
 573 574 s. d. l. s. d.
 Mr. E. Rice  would support the instruction moved by the hon. Member for Sussex, and he hoped that it would not be postponed till the next Session. It was extremely advisable, he thought, that the administration of the law should be rendered as uniform as possible. He was decidedly of opinion, that a discretionary power of giving out-door relief should be conferred upon the poor-law guardians.
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, it appeared that four-fifths of the relief at present afforded under the Poor-law Act was out-door relief; and that instead of that circumstance giving cause for regret, he regarded it as a source of very great gratification, for it at once showed that the workhouses were not so generally resorted to as at first, and that no one had a desire to resort to them, unless under a very pressing necessity. He much regretted, that there was now as much necessity as when the Act was introduced for impressing upon the minds of the commissioners, and everybody connected with the administration of the Act, the principle of carrying it into effect with as little a degree of pressure as possible. He would support the motion for an instruction the Committee.
 Mr. Briscoe  would not vote for the
 575
 Mr. Freshfield  said, the bill immediately under consideration was, merely to continue the powers of the commissioners under the Poor-law Amendment Act for one year, and they were now going into the whole discussion of the administration of relief, and the principles by which it should be regulated. With all anxiety for a proper opportunity to discuss that question in all its bearings, without, at the same time, any prejudice against the bill, rather with
 576
 Mr. Aglionby  was a sincere and constant friend of the Poor-law. He totally repudiated the assertion which had been made today by the hon. Member for Finsbury, that it was a landlord's bill, intended for the benefit of the landowner, and not the receiver of the rate. On the contrary, he believed it had done much to ameliorate and improve the condition, both moral and social, of the poor in this country. No one was more disposed to admit, that everybody was entitled to receive a full remuneration for his labour; but that would be the greatest curse with which this country could be afflicted, which, instead of leaving the labourer dependent on his own resources, would teach him to rely only for assistance on the hard earnings of his more industrious and scarcely more opulent neighbousr. Such, he believed, had been the effect of the old system, and in that respect the New Poor-law had produced a very great improvement. He was anxious that it should have a longer trial, and he should support the instruction which had been moved, because he was convinced it would tend materially to conciliate public feeling in behalf of the measure. He believed there never was any act of the Legislature which had been so unfairly treated. It had encountered the opposition of many in that House and out of doors, some acting on conscientious principles, and others front interested mo-
 577
 Lord J. Russell  said, if he believed that this clause would tend to promote the beneficial operation of the Act, he should readily have adopted it; but entertaining very great doubts whether its introduction in the manner proposed would not lead to the breaking down of the improvements already effected by the Poor-law Amendment Act, he felt himself compelled to resist the instruction. He did not wish now to argue the question with respect to widows having families; but such persons deprived suddenly of the means by which their families had been supported, should be considered as having peculiar claims for relief. But with respect to able-bodied labourers, without saying, that it would be impossible to devise some provision which should have the effect of this clause, he had never seen one with which he was entirely satisfied. Let the House consider what was one of the chief evils—he might call it the chief evil—of the former system: it was, that instead of a labourer receiving wages for his labour like an independent man, he received part in wages from his employer, and part in the shape of alms from the parish. To propose at any time, that part of the maintenance of a labourer's family should be paid either by the parish, as formerly, or by the guardians, would in a great degree be making the labourer dependent on charity. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had stated, that the greatest disposition
 578 579
 Sir J. Graham  confessed he felt considerable difficulty in making up his mind as to the course he should pursue; and if the noble Lord had stated positively that he should be prepared to resist next Session the amendments which might be proposed, he should have voted against him. He willingly shared with the noble Lord the responsibility of this measure, because he was quite satisfied, that, upon the whole, it had not been more beneficial to the rate-payers than to the independence of the labourer. It had encouraged the industrious, while it secured to the really destitute those advantages of relief which were formerly enjoyed by the idle and vicious. At the same time the working of the measure had established, that in certain particulars, it had borne with hardship on some meritorious classes. He particularly alluded to widows left with large families, suddenly deprived of their husbands, not perhaps advanced in life, but struck to the earth by some unexpected blow. To compel such at once to remove from the cottage to the workhouse, when, by a little support for a short time, they might, by industry, be enabled to maintain their families in independence, would be cruel in the extreme. The practical working of the measure had also proved to him, that in times when provisions were dear, when the demand for labour was slack, and families large, relief must, at times, in special cases, be given to the able-bodied man. He had been chairman of a board of guardians—he had seen the practical working of this measure—having for four years watched it with the greatest possible anxiety. In the Union with which he was connected there was a large body of hand-loom weavers, and he did, not hesitate to say, during the last winter it would have been utterly impossible to, have conducted the affairs of that Union without relief, though sparingly administered, and with great caution to the able-bodied labourer. The noble Lord said what was true, that there was very great danger lest the administration of relief, even in such special circumstances, and in kind, should relapse into all the evils of the former system. The law contemplated, that on a given day the refusal
 580
 Mr. Baines  felt disposed to adopt the course of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), under the influence of the same feelings. Trusting, therefore, that the rule would be relaxed in proper cases, he would support the noble Lord. In the manufacturing districts with which he was acquainted, it was quite impossible that they
 581
 Mr. Acland  should vote against the instruction of the hon. Member for East Sussex, because he considered the speech of the Home Secretary the best security against any improper use of this rule by the Commissioners. With respect to the imputations which had been cast upon hon. Members on his (the Opposition) side of the House, of having dealt unfairly with respect to the Poor-law question, for party purposes, he must say, that such imputations, to the best of his belief, were wholly undeserved; for no law ever had a larger share of the support of men of all parties, for the purpose of securing its working duly. He believed that much of the dislike felt to it, arose from the peremptory orders of the Commissioners having been in some cases too hastily and inconsiderately issued. The Wellington union furnished an example. There the Chairman of the Board of Guardians, a reverend clergyman, had resigned in consequence of the manner in which these peremptory orders were sent down; a second chairman had subsequently resigned for the same reason. Believing that the rule against out-door relief would be mildly administered during the ensuing winter, he should vote against the clause.
 Mr. Easthope  should support the mo-
 582 s. s. s.,
 Mr. Pakington  objected to a question of this important kind being brought forward on a Saturday morning. With respect to widows with large families, he believed, the Commissioners had never issued any order to send a widow with a large family into a workhouse, and never would issue such an order. A fear had been expressed by the right hon. Baronet, (Sir J. Graham) that if the principle of the clause were extended it would lead to a relapse into the old system. But he could not think that. With some reluctance, however, he had made up his mind to support the clause, but he begged that in doing so, he might be distinctly understood as being favourable to the principle of not extending relief to able-bodied labourers out of the workhouse. In fact, he considered this to be the main principle of the new Poor-law, and to involve the questions of whether the British labourer shall be independent, and whether the wages of an able-bodied man shall be sufficient for his subsistence. Closely connected with this question of withholding relief from the able-bodied labourer out of the House, was a remark of the hon. Member for Finsbury, whom he, (Mr. Pakington) much regretted to hear using such language as he had used this morning. He believed that the hon. Member was actuated by motives of benevolence, but he did very much regret that the hon. Member should say, that the Poor-law was passed with a view to elevate the master rather than the labourer. What was the case of the labourer before the Poor-law passed? His independence was gone; his moral feeling was gone. He thought, however, that the Poor-law
 583
 Mr. Hodges  should vote for the clause. He begged leave to suggest to the noble Lord that the New Poor-law auditors had received such stringent instructions from the Commissioners that it was quite impossible for them to depart from them so as to admit of any material relaxation of the rule as to out-door relief. It would, therefore, he apprehended, be necessary to review the orders sent to the auditors in certain parts of the country. With respect to the question of wages, he believed that 12 s. s.,
 Sir B. Hall  did not understand that any relaxation would be made in the strictness of the rule against out-door relief during the ensuing winter. He thought, at the same time, it was very desirable that there should be no doubt as to the intentions of her Majesty's Government in this respect; because, from the present state of the money market and of trade, it was very likely that the pressure in the winter would be great. But he did not understand from the noble Lord's speech that any relaxation of this kind was promised. It would be very satisfactory to the House and to the country that they should have the noble Lord's assurance on the subject. With respect to the question of wages he might mention, that it was expected that the New Poor-law would raise the rate of wages; but experience, he thought, had not justified this anticipation. In the county of Monmouth, and in another county with which he was connected, agricultural wages were just what they were before the passing of the Poor-law Amendment Act.
 Mr. Darby  said, the tone and substance of the discussion that day convinced him that he was justified in bringing forward his motion; and he must say, he should have been very sorry to have brought forward a motion which was offensive to the House; but he had not stirred the question without great deliberation and after communication with the noble Lord, with a view of getting the object of his motion effected at once by the Government; and when he found that Government were not willing to do anything, for which he did not blame them, he had resolved to bring the matter before the House.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that the carrying that instruction to the Committee was a matter of such importance, that he should not be justified in saying what course he should pursue, without further consideration, and he should therefore wish to postpone the Committee till Monday.
 Mr. F. Maule  thought it advisable that the bill should be proceeded with this Session. The manufacturers generally were anxious for a bill settling the law; and from the opinions he had heard respecting this bill, he believed they generally did not object to it. With regard to the introduction of silk and lace manufactories into the bill, that was an amendment which the noble Lord, the Member for Dorsetshire, had proposed; and he, (Mr. F. Maule), thought, that it would be better perhaps to postpone the operation of the bill on them till next Session, because, hitherto those branches of manufactures had not been included in the Factories' Bill.
 Lord G. Somerset  hoped the bill would be proceeded with this Session.
 Mr. Baines  thought it desirable that the bill should be suffered to stand over to another Session, when they could discuss it with more deliberation than it was possible to do now. He was persuaded, that this legislation, which was to be final, would give satisfaction to no party.
 Mr. W. T. Egerton  thought it unfair that the silk manufacturers should be brought under the operation of this bill all at once, without its having been submitted to their consideration.
 Sir J. Graham  wished that an opportunity should be given to the manufacturers in remote parts of the country to see the bill as amended. It would be for her Majesty's Ministers to consider whether, at so late a period as that, they could proceed with so important a measure. He thought it ought not to be proceeded with till the manufacturers in the distant parts of the country had had an opportunity of considering it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the second reading of the Postage Duties Bill.
 Mr. F. Baring  regretted, that the right hon. Gentleman should have alluded to what had taken place on a former occasion without better informing himself upon the subject. The right hon. Gentleman was
 628 629 l.
 Sir E. Wilmot  had seen it stated in the public papers, that the highest judicial authority in this kingdom had declared it to be his opinion that county magistrates have no concurrent jurisdiction in any borough. Did the
 622
 Sir E. Wilmot  expressed himself much satisfied with this answer, which was so distinctly opposed to the opinion given in another place.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would have been disposed to have left this bill on the explanation of his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Treasury, had it not been for the declared intention of the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Inglis) to take the sense of the House against the second reading; and if the hon. Baronet had not also in the course of his observations thrown out certain suggestions respecting the conduct of Government which required an answer. He was quite sure that the explanation of his noble Friend was calculated to remove any unpleasant impression that might for a moment have arisen in the mind of the hon. Baronet. Undoubtedly, his noble Friend had never intended to apply to the hon. Baronet any intention of evading the payment of postage. Whether the hon. Baronet, or any other Member, had ever exceeded the number of franks permitted, such a thing might be attributed to any Member without inferring any moral reflection whatever. To those most conversant with the accurate habits of the hon. Baronet he had given a new proof of his love for accuracy, for he had not only chronicled the number of his franks, but every person to whom they were sent. No one, however, required to be told this, either as a proof of the hon. Baronet's accuracy, or of the fact of his being incapable of violating any law, or making any improper use of the privilege conferred upon hint. He could not pass this question of official franking without suggesting that the hon. Baronet must have been sadly at a loss for an objection when he suggested the possibility of this, or any other government, using the powers given by this bill for the purpose of conferring the privilege of franking on one branch of the Legislature and withholding it from another, or of conferring it on one side of the House to the exclusion of the other. When the hon. Baronet was obliged to have recourse to such an imaginary danger as this, he thought he had a right to conclude that there was a singular deficiency of real argument against this
 633 634 635
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not agree to the motion. The state of the revenue was not such as would warrant him in entering upon any additional expediment beyond that in which he was now embarked with respect to the Post-office.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would endeavour, as shortly as possible, to state the reasons why the House ought not to accede to the motion of the hon. Member. And first, he must remark, that it would,
 648 649 l. 650
 Sir. T. Acland  thought that the opposition to the motion of the hon. Member for Falkirk stood on very different grounds form what it would have done, if the right hon. Gentleman had not already countenanced a similar inroad upon the revenue. He was not prepared to support the mo-
 651 l., l.
 Mr. H. Hinde  said, that some relief ought to be afforded to postmasters, to enable them to continue with the slightest chance of success against the railroads. The right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had promised to bring in a bill on this subject, and the right hon. Gentleman had shown no good reason why that intention had been abandoned. The present system was ruinous, and he should feel that he was not doing his duty to his constituents, or to the country at large, if he did not do ail in his power to produce some beneficial alteration.
 Captain Boldero  stated, that on the 26th of June, 1838, with the unanimous assent of the House, it was agreed that "a humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty would be graciously pleased to direct her Minister at the Court of Madrid to use his best endeavours to procure an early settlement of the claims of the Anglo-Spanish Legion." He wished to be informed by the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign affairs what further steps he proposed to take in this matter?
 Mr. Elliot  said, he would trouble the House with a few remarks, as he had had some experience in a post-office department. In India, it had been found that the number of soldiers' and sailors' letters had increased to such a degree as to be a matter of complaint: they were so numerous as to be sent in boxes; and this arose solely from the circumstance of their light postage. There would be a difficulty in the pre-payment of postage in this,—that when a postman had delayed a letter, he would throw it in the fire, and the party to whom it was addressed would have no knowledge of the matter, unless every free letter was registered in a book. If some check was not resorted to, he feared there would be very great complaints on the subject of pre-paid letters. There must be also some mode devised to allow of letters being sent without stamped covers, (where persons were hurried and had no stamps,) and to secure the delivery of such letters. In India, the post-office was obliged to make a rule that no such letter should be received unless a slip of paper was delivered at the office with the letter, which was stamped and re-delivered to the person who brought the letter. But the most important matter was to invent a check to secure the delivery of pre-paid letters.—Bill read a second time.
 Lord Eliot  observed, that as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had declared, that in consequence of the financial state of the country, he could only remove one of these taxes, he should prefer the removal of the duty on post-horses to the adoption of the penny postage.
 Lord J. Russell  expressed his regret that his hon. Friend the Attorney General was not in the House to answer this question, with the authority which belonged to his position and to his knowledge of the subject. He could state with confidence, however, that the opinion of that hon. and learned individual, as well as of his hon. and learned Friend near him, the Solicitor General, was, that the corporate magistrates and recorders of boroughs, where a Court of Quarter Sessions was held, were alone entitled to exclusive jurisdiction in the case where the Court of Quarter Sessions had existed previously to the passing of the Act; and that in the case of boroughs to which a grant of Quarter Sessions had since been made, and still more where no Court of Quarter Sessions existed in the borough, the county magistrates retained their jurisdiction concurrently with the local magistrates.
 Lord John Russell  wished to state to the House, the propositions which would be made by Government relative to the present state of the country in certain districts. It was the intention, then, of the Government to lay on the Table of that House immediately an additional estimate, to allow of an increase of our infantry regiments from 739 to 800 men. This estimate would provide for an increase of the numerical force of our army to the extent of about 5,000 men. The sum which would be required for the maintenance of this additional force up to April next would
 621 l. l.
 Lord Seymour  differed in opinion with the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. So far from thinking, that this bill would not be beneficial to the lower classes, he thought, on the contrary, that it would confer great benefit upon them. He believed, that one of the great disadvantages which the poor at present had to suffer, was the want of easy and cheap communication with their friends. Now, with respect to the privilege of franking, he and another hon. Member of the House had gone to the Post-office to make inquiries on that point, and he was there told by the secretary, that some Members of the House were in the habit of using their privilege, to evade a payment, by franking more than the allowed
 630
 Lord Seymour  said, he should be ashamed of himself if he had said anything personally offensive to the hon. Baronet, and he begged, therefore, to apologise for the expression he had used.
 631
 Mr. Hawes  could not vote for the motion of the hon. Member, in consequence of the statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Still, he was of opinion, that the post-horse duties might be altered, which would be a great relief to coach proprietors. The traffic on railroads was increasing, while the duties derived from post-horses and coaches were decreasing, and he had been told by the coach proprietors generally, that the next
 654
 Colonel Sibthorp  submitted a motion for the reduction of the duty on Fire Insurance. When the tax was first levied its amount was exceedingly small; but it had subsequently increased under the pressure of the war, until at last it became extremely burdensome from its amount as well as very unjust, unequal, and partial in its operation. Now it ought to be reduced, and he was sure that a diminution of the tax, so far from reducing the revenue, would materially increase it; for many persons who were anxious now to insure their property were deterred from doing so by the high rate of the insurance duty. He confessed he did not see why this tax should not be reduced, when he found the import duties reduced on castor oil, and human hair, on rhubarb and raisins, on anchovies and French wines, and finally on the essence of bergamot and the balsam of copaiba. The gallant Member concluded by moving a resolution that from and after the 5th of April next, the duty on fire insurance be reduced to one-half the amount now levied.
 Colonel Sibthorp  would be glad to see a clear statement of the property held in railroads by Members of that House, and how they voted. For his own part, he had always voted against railroads, and should continue to do so.
 Mr. C. P. Villiers  said, that as far as he could understand the charge of the hon. Baronet, it was a proof of the superior wisdom of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for it only imputed to the right hon. Gentleman that he considered anti consulted the larger interest—that he
 653
 Mr. Darby  said, that there was no question, whether one of education or post-horse duty, or be it what it might, which did not afford the hon. Member for Wolverhampton an opportunity to complain of the Corn-laws. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had not, acted fairly in disregarding the promise he had made, and throwing the postmasters, who had made a strong case, overboard for the sake of the penny-postage. At the same time, he could not vote for the motion of the hon. Member on the ground which had induced him to oppose the reduction of any tax without an adequate substitute having been provided.
 Mr. G. Palmer  said, that the effect of the continuance of the present system would be to take all the post-horses off the roads, and to close all the inns and the houses of accommodation scattered over the country. The result would then be, that people would be compelled to travel by railroads, and would be exposed to the grossest impositions, as the proprietors could charge what they pleased, as the railroads were perfect monopolies.
 Mr. Goulburn  did not intend to engage in a discussion, or to call upon the House to vote against the second reading of this bill, which he had only had in his hand that morning; but he must be allowed to say, that he never saw a better specimen of a summary mode of disposing, not only
 624 625 l.,
 Mr. Handley  was exceedingly surprised to bear what had that evening fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, after the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman a few months since on this subject. The right hon. Gentleman then stated, when the subject of the reduction of the post-horse duty was introduced, that it was his intention, in the course of the present year, to introduce a bill with a view to correct many of the inconveniences that had been adverted to; and the right hon. Gentleman further stated, that the present rate of taxation was unequal and unjust, and that it interfered with the fair spirit of commercial competition. What had occurred within these few months to change the opinions of the right hon. Gentleman? The right hon. Gentleman now quoted the vote that had been come to on the penny postage question as a reason, and the sole reason, why he refused that relief which a few months ago he thought just and necessary. If the right hon. Gentleman did not reduce this tax, he ought to raise all competing modes of communication by railroads and steam-boats, to the same level. He feared they were establishing a monopoly in favour of railroads which they would one day feel, and he hoped that, at least, fair competition would be allowed to those who had been for so many years in the service of the people; and, he thought that this meritorious class of people would have just right to complain, if their claims were now put aside, contrary to the express declaration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer himself on a former occasion.
 Mr. Warburton  repelled the charge that he was not inclined to maintain faith with the public creditor. On all occasions had he been prepared to maintain public credit; and on several occasions he had sup-
 641
 Mr. Hume  hoped that his hon. Friend would not press the question to a division.
 Mr. R. Palmer  said, that a few clays ago he had a communication on the subject of the post-horse duties with a very large coach proprietor, who told him, that a small reduction in the amount of the duty, and an equalisation of taxation, would enable the proprietors to go on, and that those charges would be attended with an increase of revenue. As it appeared, that there was likely to be a deficient revenue, he could not support the present resolution.
 Mr. Wallace  said, that he had gone to the Post-office with other members of the committee, and he had been shown, among other things, the table were franks were taken which were above the proper number. Whether as a matter of joke be did not know, but it had been stated, in reply to a question, whether an accurate watch was kept over the franks, that it was impossible to do that, but that a few Members at a time were always watched, that that process was going on at that time, and amongst the number was the name of the hon. Baronet; his own name and the name of a third person whom he did not recollect. As a matter of joke, as soon as he saw the hon. Baronet, he told the hon. Baronet that they were both in the same list, when the hon. Baronet convinced him it was almost impossible, for he pulled out a list in which not only the franks were entered, but also the names of the individuals to whom they were sent. He was, therefore, quite sure that the hon. Baronet only claimed what was partly his due when he said that he kept as accurate an account as any other Member. For his own part he would offer no apology. With regard to the privilege of franking he was perfectly ready to give it up for the sake of the general benefit which he thought this bill would confer on the people at large. With regard to the powers proposed to be given to the Treasury, he certainly thought, considering that those powers would cease on the 1st of October in the ensuing year, they would be in safe keeping in the hands of the Treasury. He was convinced that this bill, if it wore passed into a law, would give
 632
 Mr. Wakley  said, the hon. Member for Sussex had made a speech in favour of the reduction, but intended to give his vote against the proposition. The Chancellor of the Exchequer did not care how many speeches were made in favour of the motion so long as he got the votes. So long as the Ministers had the money of the people at their control, they did not care a straw what hon. Gentlemen might say. The proper way was to keep the money out of their hands. He believed that the Government had adopted the postage plan with a desire to benefit the public, and he was grateful for what they had done, but considering the length and breadth of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's organs of caution, he was surprised that he had gone so far. A proposition had been made for a property tax. He liked the proposition. But the Chancellor of the Exchequer feared, that the landlords would run away with their wealth to the continent. He should like to see a man pocket three or four thousand acres of land—he would find this rather a difficult thing to get to the continent with. A man might leave a million in landed property to a profligate son without paying one farthing of duty, yet if he had had a faithful servant, who had been with him for thirty years, and left hint 100 l., l. l. Pechell: 655
 Mr. Gillon,  after presenting petitions from stage coach proprietors, complaining of the depressed state of their trade, moved for a committee of the whole House to take into consideration the duties affecting internal communication, with a view of submitting to that Committee a series of resolutions for the reduction of the post-horse, public carriage, and mileage duties. He regretted that a question of so much public importance should be discussed at so late a period of the Session, and with such a thin attendance of Members. But he considered it his duty, nevertheless, to avail himself of the opportunity to urge the claims of the parties who had entrusted their interests to his charge, with the view of asking the House to give
 643 644 s. d. 645 l., l. l., l. s.; s. d. l. s. l. s. l. s. d. l. s. d. 646 l., l. l. s. l. s. s. d., 647 l l., l., l., l.
 Sir C. Knightley  would support the proposition of the hon. Member for Falkirk. He begged to call the attention of the House to the course that was taken by Government upon two questions, namely, that of the postage of letters, and the post-horse duty. It was said, that the reduction of the postage upon letters would benefit the poor. On the contrary, he thought it would only benefit merchants and rich people. The duty upon post-horses was, on the contrary, unequal and unjust, and ruined all those engaged in the posting business. Government, however, was induced to bring forward the first measure entirely from popular clamour; while the second question, which affected a class of persons few in number, and without the power of doing much good or harm, was altogether neglected.
 Captain Pechell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had endeavoured to thwart the present proposition, by reminding the House of the sacrifice of revenue that must be made to carry out the principle of a penny postage. He supported the penny postage, because he thought it was a measure that was generally called for by the country; but that was no reason why he should not also support the motion of the hon. Member for Falkirk. It was the business of that House to reduce such taxation as they thought called for, and it was the duty of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to carry out the wishes of that House, and to supply any deficiency that might thereby be created.
 Mr. Easthope  said, that he could not but be surprised at the extreme incorrectness that prevailed in the minds of several hon. Members as to the existing taxes on the means of communication, as if there were no taxes on conveyance by railways. There was, however, very considerable taxation on railroads, and he knew, that a very large proportion of the capital embarked in the railroads had never paid anything to the proprietors, although it
 656
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that when the noble Lord presumed to connect his name with a practice which amounted to nothing less than attempts to cheat the revenue, he felt bound to call the noble Lord to order, and he felt assured that he did not ask too much of the House, when he begged permission to state his invariable practice: that practice was, to keep not merely a regular account of the number of letters which he franked, but to enter the names of the individuals to whom they were addressed. If other gentlemen could state as much, it would afford him pleasure. The statement made to the House by the noble Lord was not one for which he had the least warrant in any evidence on the table of the House; and moreover, the statement to which he referred had not been, as far as he knew, made in any quarter in the terms in which it had been delivered to the House by the noble Lord. He had understood that the Secretary to the Post Office had stated that three members of that House were watched, and that he was one of those Members. He should not state who the other Members were; all he should say was, that he had been one of the number: he should state also, that two hon. Friends of his who lately went to the Post-Office, made inquiries on the subject, and the result was, that upon one occasion, and upon one only, had he been found to exceed his privilege. He certainly was accustomed to equal his number of franks, but very rarely to exceed them, and never intentionally; most rarely, indeed, had he ever exceeded the privilege; he had done so once, but if he had done so ten times, during the period that he had a seat in that House, it would not perhaps have been extraordinary. He felt ashamed to state to them as a gentleman, that he had never exceeded his privilege intentionally. When it had been imputed to him that he had been guilty of attempts to cheat the public revenue, he was sure the Speaker, if the noble Lord rose again, would call on him to state what he meant by the observations which fell from him on the subject of the privilege of franking having been exceeded.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  shared in the opinion of his right hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Cambridge that it was
 626 l. l. l. 627 l.
 Sir R. Peel:  I will in the first instance refer to two or three minor points which have been alluded to on the assumption that this bill will ultimately pass into a law. Assuming that to be the case, I do not concur with my hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford, that it would be desirable, that the Members of this House should retain their Parliamentary privilege of franking. I think, if it were to be continued after this bill came into operation, that there would be a degree of odium attached to it which would greatly diminish its value. The reason for keeping it up will, in a great degree, expire with the passing of this bill, for when Members of Parliament can receive their communications for a penny each, it will not be necessary to preserve the privilege of franking. With respect to official franking, whether the bill pass into a law or not, some alteration would be advisable. So far as the measure is an experiment I concur with the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that new regulations ought to be adopted. I think it would be advisable to require, that each department should specially pay the postage incurred in the public service of the department. If every office be called on to pay its own postage, we shall introduce a useful principle into the public service. There is no habit connected with a public office so inveterate or so difficult to be laid down as the privilege of official franking. But the benefit of adopting a new principle will be this, that the man who, acting on an uni-
 636 637 638 l. 639 d. 640
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that great efforts had been made by her Majesty's Government to induce the government of Spain to enter into a commercial treaty which would be obviously to the advantage of the Spanish government. Almost all the principal articles of foreign produce prohibited by the Spanish government were invariably obtained by the process of smuggling, by which means the government of Spain lost all the benefit in the shape of taxation which would arise from their regular importation. But there were old interests invested in the maintenance of this system of abuse, interests which it was extremely difficult to overcome. There were also persons in Spain who imagined that Catalonia produced excellent manufactures, the fact being that these so-called domestic manufactures were imported from England and sold for the productions of Spain. The prejudices which subsisted in many parts of Spain were so strong, that he feared, until the civil war came to a close, he could hold out little hope of their concluding this commercial treaty.
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that the first step was obviously the examination of accounts, with a view to obtaining a return of the actual sums due to each claimant. The commission which had recently been sitting in London had examined into all these claims, and reported
 623
 Viscount Sandon  wished to ask the noble Viscount whether any progress had been made in forming a commercial treaty with Spain.
 The Attorney General  regretted to say, that the reported opinion of the Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench appeared to him not to be altogether correct. He thought the noble and learned Lord's attention had not been sufficiently drawn to the enactments on the subject. He (the Attorney General) was of opinion that the county magistrates had a jurisdiction within the new borough of Birmingham; unless there was a  ne intromittent
 Mr. D'Israeli  thought, before the House agreed to any one of the projects of the noble Lord, they ought to inquire into the causes of the insurrectionary spirit, and whether the conduct of Government was concerned in that insurrectionary spirit. How could they tell, but that the cause of it might not be the country having to struggle with a weak Government?
 Sir E. Wilmot  said, it should be recollected that Birmingham was, in point of fact, an overgrown village, and the only
 700
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that if the people of Birmingham had not the power to raise money to establish a police, a bill ought to be passed at once to give them that power. A bill ought to be brought in, to give power to all towns where a corporation was established to raise money to establish a local police; for he believed, that a local police would be much more efficient for the preservation of peace than a London police. He thought, that the late excitement in Birmingham had been caused by the most unjust, most unwarranted, and most gross treatment of Messrs. Lovett and Collins. But for that treatment he thought that no disturbance would have occurred. He did not approve of the principle of making this advance, and he thought, that the best course would be to bring in a bill to give power to Birmingham to levy a rate for the purpose of establishing a police force.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the alteration in the police of Dublin, assimilating it to that of London, had been adopted at the particular recommendation of the local authorities, and had worked to the satisfaction of all parties. He thought that the agitation against the London police was likely to prove very unfounded, and their conduct should be inquired into most minutely before they were condemned. When they were accused of fomenting the riots, by their interference in the Bull-ring, it should be recollected that the Bull-ring was the situation in which the principal shops of the town were situated, and that, for nights before the police made their appearance, this part of the town had been the scene of continual riot and disturbance, so that many of the shopkeepers were obliged to close their shops and abstain
 707
 Lord John Russell  said, that with regard to the suggestion thrown out by the right hon. Baronet opposite, that there should be a magistrate much in the capacity of the police commissioners of London, that
 705 706
 Lord John Russell  said, that the right hon. Baronet had understood him correctly. It was proposed, that the sum advanced should be repaid by assessment upon the town, leaving altogether aside the question of the validity of the charter.
 Lord John Russell  said, in moving the resolution which I am now to propose, I think it my duty to state the circumstances which have made it necessary for me to propose this vote. It has been stated, that an assembly of persons lawfully met together, and conducting themselves peaceably, for the purpose of discussing public grievances, were interrupted by a sudden attack on the part of the metropolitan police; and an attempt has been made to refer what has since taken place, to this which is described as a wanton and unprovoked attack. I think it necessary to state
 695 "All assemblies, not held by lawful authority, attended by great numbers of people, with such circumstances of terror as are calculated to excite alarm and to endanger the public peace." "Any assembly where people met together in great numbers, using arms, or using violent, seditious, or threatening language, or even strong gestures against persons concerned in the preservation of the peace, is by law considered an unlawful assembly. It is laid down in a common book of reference, in a late edition of 'Burns' Justice,' that a meeting of great numbers of persons with such circumstances of terror as may endanger the public peace, and raise fears of violence, seems properly to be called an unlawful assembly." 696 697 698 l.
 Lord John Russell  said, that this corporation was not empowered by law to raise money on the security of the rates, and another reason was, that it was desirable this question should not be complicated with the consideration of other questions. At Manchester the town-council had issued orders to the churchwardens and overseers commanding them to assess a certain sum of money as a borough rate for the maintenance of a police force for that town. This had been resisted, and a question raised to try the validity of the charter. No question of this sort had been raised at Birmingham, and it was exceedingly desirable that such should not be
 692
 Lord John Russell  observed, it was said he was now proposing that an Order of the Day should take precedence of Notices of Motion. Now when that petition, signed by 1,200,000 persons came on for discussion, he had himself proposed, although the Order of the Day then took precedence, that the discussion on that petition should be taken first. He had not endeavoured to shirk the discussion, but had fairly met the reasons urged by the hon. Gentlemen who proposed and supported the motion. That motion was, therefore, disposed of in the most deliberate manner, and he had not by the course he then took precluded himself from doing that which he now proposed.
 Lord John Russell  moved, pursuant to notice, that the Order of the Day for a Committee on the Birmingham Police, with a view to vote money, should be taken before the notices of motions.
 Mr. French  rose to move, "that an hum-
 708 necessitas trinoda, 709 viœ publicœ, viœ vicinales, viœ vicinales l., l. l. l. 710 "They had not failed to observe from the evidence adduced the great benefits which had arisen from the consolidation of trusts round the metropolis; that all the witnesses, sixteen in number, that had been examined, concurred in recommending a system of general control for the management of the roads of the kingdom, to introduce one general economical course of management as the only means of reducing the enormous amount of debt, releasing the country from the burden of statute labour, and the high rate of toll now levied on every district." 711 l., l. l., l. ex post facto l. l. 712 l. 713 l. s. d., l., l. s., s. 714 l. l. 715 l. l. l. l. 716
 Mr. Warburton  would support this vote on the ground stated by the hon. Member for Kilkenny.
 Mr. Fielden  said, with regard to what had fallen from the noble Lord, respecting the agitation against the Poor-laws, that no agitation on that subject had occurred in Birmingham, where this increase of force was now called for. The fact was, the poor were taxed deeply in the necessities of life by the Corn-laws and the Malt-tax, and had not the means of paying their taxes, nor of feeding their families. This House might disregard their complaints for a time, but if they did, they would one day have bitter cause to regret it.
 Mr. Fielden  said, it was undoubtedly the duty of the House to secure the tranquillity of the country, but the question was, whether the mode proposed by the noble Lord was likely to attain that object. He thought the best mode of trying to conciliate the people was to endeavour to redress the grievances of which the people complained. The complaint was of the London police having been sent to Bimingham, and the general feeling was that the disturbances arose there from. The House ought to redress the sufferings of which the people complained instead of providing a force to put down their complaints, which most assuredly never could be put down by such means. He trusted the hon. Member for Westminster would take the sense of the House on the question.
 Mr. Leader  did not see there was such very great urgency for the motion of the noble Lord. He believed the disturbances in Birmingham had been very much exaggerated. He would persevere in his objection to the irregularity on the part of the noble Lord, and would take the sense of the House upon it.
 Mr. Hume  asked why the corporation could not raise the money on their own security, without applying to the Government. He did not object to the institution of a police, but he thought that corporations were the best judges of their own pecuniary affairs.
 Mr. Hume  begged to ask the right hon. the Attorney General how far
 691
 Mr. Hume  understood they were called upon to make this advance, in consequence of the corporation having no power under the charter to borrow money for the purpose to which this advance was to be applied. If that was applicable to Birmingham, was not every other corporation under the same circumstances? Ought not every one to have the means of establishing a proper effective police? Scarcely one of the old boroughs maintained a proper and adequate police. He had no objection to the resolution; but he did object to the
 699
 Mr. Scholefield  said, that the reason why the new corporation had not appointed police was, that they could not raise the necessary funds according to the present charter. The mayor and corporation, accordingly, anticipating a disturbance, applied to the noble Secretary of the Home Department for assistance, and that noble Lord had very properly sent down a body of police. He thought it was quite clear, that the riot would have broken out whether the London police had been sent or not.
 Mr. T. Attwood  said, that there were at present three bodies, which had the power of levying a police force in Birmingham—namely, the commissioners of the streets, the court leet, and, more recently, the new corporation; and he was surprised that if the latter found that the police revenues of the town were weak, they did not proceed at once to levy a rate of their own accord for all necessary purposes. He (Mr. T. Attwood) deprecated the proposition for a rural police throughout England. It was a proposition which must rankle deeply in the hearts of the people. Our fathers were governed by constables chosen in every parish; and we, he thought, were ready to be governed in the same way. The idea of a rural police was as odious as the New Poor-law itself; and of all the periods of history, he thought the present was the very last in which any new attempt should be made against the liberties of the people. If this matter were to be confined to Birmingham, he had not any objection to it; but if it were to be attempted to be used to strengthen the idea of a Briareus, with ten thousand arms stretching out into every village in the land, he thought the House would have cause to regret the part they were taking in it.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, the old fashioned manner of proceeding was, to consider of and redress grievances before granting money. Now, the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Westminster related to a very great grievance. Why should not it have precedence? Again, why should they put their hands into the public purse, in order to support a police for Birmingham, the largest town in the kingdom, provided with a corporation for its own government. He predicted that it was only giving the money away; it would be like that loan of a million which was given to the Irish parsons. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had talked of the Order of the Day having precedence because houses were burning in Birmingham. The cause of all that was the conduct of that House. They might add 5,000 men to their army—they might increase the police force, but it would all be of no use so long as that House went on in its present course. On a subsequent occasion, his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham, supported by his hon. Friend the Member for Oldham, presented a petition from 1,200,000 persons. They asked the House to take it into consideration only, but not more than forty-eight Members could be found to vote in favour of their motion. Could they believe the people would be contented when they had added 5,000 men to the army, or that the police would be of use if that House persevered in such a course. He (Mr. D.) believed the country was in a dangerous state; he believed great discontent and distress prevailed, and a vote of the sort then proposed being passed before the country had any time to reflect upon it, would cause great consternation and dismay throughout the country. On the 22nd of July, within, in all probability, three weeks of the close of the Session, the noble Lord came down from the House and said the country was in such a state that he must increase the army to the extent of 5,000 men, and advance 10,000 l. 693 l.
 Mr. Wakley  thought that the town of Birmingham, whether subject to riots and anarchy or not, should have a local police. He cordially concurred in all that had fallen from the right hon. Baronet opposite respecting the advantages of municipal institutions; but at the same time be thought it extraordinary that he should speak in favour of municipal corporations for England, and should have spoken for their abolition in Ireland. He thought the present measure of the noble Lord a very unobjectionable one; but if it had been proposed, as had been suggested by the right hon. Baronet, that the police of Birmingham should be placed under a commission in the control of Government, he should have given it his uncompromising opposition, and he was sure it would have met with universal opposition.
 Mr. Wyse  rejoiced that the motion had been submitted to the House by his hon. Friend, because it had elicited from the noble Lord (Morpeth) a more satisfactory explanation than he had before given. After the debate which had taken place on a former occasion, it was supposed by the Irish people that the matter would be left entirely to private enterprise; but the declaration of the noble Lord showed, that so far from giving up his views, he only wanted a fitting opportunity to carry out his beneficent intentions with respect to Ireland.
 Mr. Ward  trusted, that the unanimity with which this vote would be passed, would be productive of the best effects. He hoped that the present measure was only the commencement of the establishment of a permanent system of police in all large towns, under the control of the local authorities. As to the introduction of the London police at Birmingham being the cause, or the principal cause, of what had taken place there, he could only say, that the man who indulged in such a belief must close his eyes and ears to what was passing around him. It might have occurred a few days later or sooner; but from the preparations that had been made, and the organization that existed, the introduction of the police, when it became absolutely necessary for the magistrates to exercise some authority, acted only as a spark to fire the train which had existed a long time previously. He trusted that the vote would be agreed to without a division, and that they would thus convince those who were treading on the systematic violation of the law, that they were determined to afford full protection to life and property.
 Mr. Easthope  said, it was the first duty of Parliament to do that which was best calculated to secure tranquillity. He should cordially give his support to the proposition of the noble Lord.
 Sir Robert Peel  felt it to be his duty to support the noble Lord, and he thought what had been said about the danger of leaving that great manufacturing town in the possession of a mob—houses being set on fire and pillaged—and the whole being in a state of anarchy, did constitute a sufficient reason for proceeding at once to consider what steps should be taken to restore tranquillity. There was something so peculiar in the circumstances of the country, in the announcement that had
 694
 Sir R. Peel  said, that as the hon. Member had challenged him upon the subject of he Irish Corporations, he begged to ask the bon Member whether he was aware that the police of Ireland was placed under the control of the Government, and that the Irish Municipal Bill, so far from placing the local police under the new corporations, expressly excluded those bodies from any control whatever over that force.
 Sir R. Peel  wished to know if he was correct in understanding, that this bill would contain an express provision, that the present advance should be repaid by local assessment, to be levied upon the property of the inhabitants of Birmingham?
 Sir R. Peel  understood, that it would be difficult, without the intervention of Parliament, at present to raise a rate, and that
 701 John Russell 702 703 704
 Viscount Morpeth  said, he should not be tempted to offer any answer to the speech of his hon. Friend, because his hon. Friend had made an eloquent and a convincing speech in favour and on behalf of the measure which the Government had proposed, and the principles which he had asked the House to adopt at an early period of the present Session. At that time he stated a plan which he had been reluctantly compelled to abandon, as far as this Session was concerned, and if next Session it should be found that private enterprise was insufficient and incompetent to complete these works, which it was admitted would be beneficial to Ireland, it would then be the duty of the Government to consider whether they ought not to lend their assistance. He did not suppose his hon. Friend intended to press his motion; for both her Majesty and the Government had done all they could in the matter at present, and the carrying into effect the objects his hon. Friend had in view must depend on the concurrence of Parliament. Neither did he presume his hon. Friend called for any formal pledge from the Government, and therefore he could only repeat, that if private enterprise failed to complete these works, the duty would devolve on the Government to propose that which they thought would be most conducive to the interests of Ireland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said the hon. Member for Kilkenny, though he said it was not his wish, on the present occasion, that the House should decide upon the question, evidently wished them to conclude that the Academy was in the wrong, and that therefore they should be turned out. He would therefore give a short explanation of the right of occupancy of the Royal Academy. The Royal Academy had been, for a considerable time, in possession of apartments in Somerset-house, which they occupied merely by consent of the Crown, without any legal right of property, and subject to the risk of being removed at a minute's warning—although he was far from saying that the exercise of that right would have been either just or proper. When the transference took place, it was distinctly stated in the official communications which passed upon the subject, that they held the new apartments on the same footing and title, and no better condition than they had to those in Somerset-house; and that, indeed, was admitted in their petition. They stated, in fact, that their long occupation in Somerset-house gave them a moral, if not a legal right, to those they had received in
 720
 Dr. Lushington  wished to ask his hon. Friend, the Under Secretary for the Colonies, whether he had received any despatches from the Mauritius, containing an authentic account of the slaves in that colony being actually emancipated, and whether such emancipation had taken place tranquilly; and further, whether the Orders in Council had been carried into effect in the island, beneficially or not?
 Mr. Wakley  thought it useless to oppose the bill further, otherwise he would do so. He thought that if these pensions were paid weekly, instead of quarterly, that a great many of the evils that now existed would be avoided.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the only object of the bill was to guard against frauds being committed on the pensioners, by enabling them, if necessary, to assign their pensions to a public and responsible officer, instead of assigning them as at present to shopkeepers and others who exacted a usurious interest. It was in fact a bill to restrict and not to promote the assignment of pensions.
 Mr. Wakley  complained that by the second clause of this bill, the Poor-law guardians would have the right to demand the whole quarter's pension, if the soldier or any of his family had received parochial relief during any part of that time. He thought this a most unjust proposition, and it had sprung up, no doubt, at the suggestion of the Sommerset House Commissioners, to prevent a soldier's assigning his pension. He maintained that a soldier obtained his pension as a right, and not as a gift, and he thought therefore he should have the unrestricted enjoyment of it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that these pensions were always granted without the power of assignment, and the principal object of the present measure was to prevent fraudulent assignments.
 Mr. V. Harcourt  wished to ask a question of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It would be in the recollection of the House that he had presented a petition from the Duke of Marlborough, complaining of certain deductions that were made from his pension on account of the land-tax, and of the shilling and the sixpenny duties (as they were termed) on pensions. That petition was referred to a select committee, to ascertain and state the facts of the case; but they were not authorised to report any opinion thereon. He thought however, that he was justified in stating that the committee were unanimously of opinion that at least a portion of the complaint was well founded, and that the parliamentary grant ought never to have be come liable to the shilling and the sixpenny duties. He begged to know what were the feelings of the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject.
 Mr. Aglionby,  having been on the committee, wished to state what was the opinion he entertained respecting the Duke of Marlborough's claim. The question was divisible into two parts—first, whether the Duke was properly charged with a deduction in respect to the land-
 725
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had on a former occasion stated, that the Duke of Marlborough was entitled to a remission of the deductions that had been made, as well in respect of the land-tax as of the shilling and sixpenny duties; and had voted in consonance with that opinion. But the decision of the House was adverse to his view. A committee was afterwards appointed to report the facts to the House; that report was now before them, and although it would be most agreeable to his own feelings to propose a measure making a remission on both points in favour of the Duke of Marlborough, yet, without abandoning his own opinion as to the abstract justice of the case, he thought that after the statement just made by his hon. Friend, and which statement he assumed met with the consent of the majority of the Committee, he should be better consulting his public duty, and also the interest of the Duke of Marlborough himself, by limiting the measure he intended to propose to the shilling and the sixpenny duties, upon the remission of which all parties appeared to be agreed.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that, as a Member of the committee who had sat on this subject, he felt bound to state, that the propositions of this bill were cordially supported by the whole committee. The House ough to understand, that it was not intended to levy any new duty on coals, or to increase the present duty, or continue it beyond the time first specified for the purpose of carrying these improvements into effect. It was expected, and he believed the calculations before the committee justified it, that there would be found from the present duty a surplus sufficient to meet all the expenses of those improvements.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that his constituents were deeply interested in this bill. At a large meeting which was held a few months ago, all parties agreed to the continuance of the present tax, provided the intended improvements could be carried into effect. With respect to the third improvement referred to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, be roust say, he thought it of the last moment to the happiness, comfort, health, and morality of that district; for although the district which he represented was inhabited by some persons possessing very large
 727
 Mr. D'Israeli  thought, that they must all be agreed, without discussing the merits of the noble Lord's proposition, that it would effect a considerable civil revolution in the country. Unquestionably a law of this nature ought not to be passed until after grave and mature deliberation. The proposed bill could not be introduced in
 732
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  should be sorry to think that the hon. Gentleman
 733
 Captain Gordon  was anxious to ask the noble Lord whether he had any intention of proposing that the Act should extend to Scotland? If the measure were a good one, and he was free to presume that it was, it was desirable it should be applied to that country. In many great towns of Scotland the magistrates were unable to bring a sufficient civil force against the disturbers of the public peace, and he was therefore anxious to know, whether the powers conferred by this bill were to be given to the magistrates in Scotland. If he was not mistaken, the learned Lord who was lately Lord Advocate had determined to introduce a measure upon the subject, and it was well known, that many counties in Scotland were ready to devote what was called the rogue money, for the purpose of establishing a rural police.
 An hon. Member  rose to order. It was irregular for one hon. Member so to allude to the vote of another.
 Mr. D'Israeli,  rose to defend himself from some remarks which had been made upon him. He disclaimed any personal imputations against any one in the House leaving that to Under Secretaries of State believing them to be coarse, vulgar, and ill-bred. [Order.] He understood that such coarse expressions had been applied to him, and defended, as they went "near the wind." Both this bill and the bill introduced last night had been introduced by a misrepresentation. If the object had been that stated by the noble Lord, why should the bill be introduced on the 24th of July? The vote would not be sufficient for Birmingham; the military were protecting the town, and must protect it. It was due to the House, that the noble Lord should give some exposition as to the state of the insurrectionary spirit in the country, as to its causes, and as to the consequences which might ensue, and the measures with which it ought to be met. He had heard some comments made upon him by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and an Under-Secretary of State, which he did not choose to pass unnoticed. Indeed, from a Chancellor of the Exchequer to an Under-Secretary of State was a descent from the sublime to the ridiculous, though the sublime was, on this occasion, rather ridiculous, and the ridiculous rather trashy. How he became Chancellor of the Exchequer, and how the Government to which he belonged became a Government, it would be difficult to tell. Like flies in amber—
 "One wondered how the devil they got there."
 Mr. Langdale  was as ready as any hon. Gentleman to afford extraordinary powers to the Government, if necessary; and if this bill was to be of a temporary nature only, he should not oppose it, but he felt that this system of police extension might be carried to extremes. They would, in fact, run the risk in highly populated and agricultural districts of establishing a sort of spy system, a kind of force which would make, if it could not find, business to keep up the necessity for keeping them in pay. He saw, with a great deal of apprehension, the extension of a system of
 738
 Mr. F. Maule  did not attribute motives, but he thought he had a right to draw a conclusion. He might be sailing too near the wind, but he would say, that after a vote which had been given in that House, when the town of Birmingham was in such a state that the Government was actually compelled to come down to the House, and ask for a vote of money to enable the magistrates to preserve the peace, he could draw no other inference from that vote but that it was brought about by a love of riot.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, the reason why his noble Friend had not introduced a clause, applying the enactments of the bill to Scotland, was, that with regard to England the whole subject had been inquired into, and a circular letter had been addressed to the chairman of every Quarter Sessions. No such steps, however, had been taken in regard to Scotland, and the opinions of the country gentlemen in that part of the kingdom were consequently not known. He agreed, however, with the hon. and gallant Member, in thinking, that it was most desirable that the bill should be extended to Scotland, and he should, therefore, hope that his noble Friend would hereafter apply its provisions to that country. The hon. Member for Maidstone, who seemed by his vote of the other night to be the advocate of riot and confusion—
 Lord Granville Somerset  begged to put a question to the Under Secretary for the Colonies. It was stated in the public papers, that when the captured slaves were liberated from the slave-vessels which had been captured, they were apprenticed, under certain regulations in Brazil, as a means of disposing of them. If this were the case, it was only transferring them to another kind of slavery, and the benevolence of this country, in paying large sums for their capture and liberation, was rendered absolutely nugatory.
 Lord G. Somerset : Am I to understand that such has been the fact—that slaves so captured, have been apprenticed in the Brazils?
 Lord J. Russell  said, the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, being absent, who had undertaken to state the case for the Royal Academy, on which they expected to show the reasons why the order of the House of the 14th March should be rescinded, he did not feel himself in a situation to give any opinion upon the subject. There was one part of the speech of the hon. Member, however, which he thought himself bound to notice. The hon. Member had said, that the Academy had refused to give information to the House. Now, there were two ways of doing that. The first way was to refuse to give the information asked for; the other was to put it respectfully to the House, by petition, whether it were expedient, that the House should persist in ordering them to make the returns. Now the Royal Academy had adopted the latter course, and had presented a petition to the House, stating they had already furnished a great deal of information, in returns to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and in the copious evidence given by the president and officers of the Academy before the Parliamentary committee on the fine arts, by which means all their rules and regulations had been laid open to public inspection. They respectfully express their hope and trust, that the House would be pleased to rescind the order of the 14th of March. Therefore the Royal Academy had given reasons, be they good or be they bad, why they expected the House would rescind that order. He thought that was a very different course from refusing to give information, as stated by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and he
 719
 Lord J. Russell  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill for the establishment of county and district constables by authority of justices of the peace for England and Wales. He proposed, by this bill, to give authority to justices of the peace in certain cases for the establishment of an efficient constabulary. Every one was aware, that in many populous districts, there was a very great want of such a body. A noble Friend of his had taken great pains some time ago with respect to a bill for a commission for swearing in special constables; and afterwards he had introduced a bill which allowed justices, in certain cases, to appoint special constables. In both those bills, it was necessary for the appointment of such constables, that there should be an apprehension of riot, or a breach of the peace or peril. Both these bills would have been useful in many cases that had come under his own knowledge, but they did not apply to the ordinary state of police in certain districts. It certainly was in the power of justices to add to the number of special constables on any sudden necessity; but whenever that extended beyond a certain point they found themselves very much at a loss, Many evils had arisen from that: and it was very frequently the case, that when apprehensions arose with respect to any meeting about to be held, the magistrates sent directly for military assistance. The officers commanding in the districts to which such applications were made felt them to be very embarrassing. They had stated, and more especially Sir Richard Jackson, an officer of very distinguished merit, and a competent judge on all subjects connected with both the military state of the army, and the civil condition of the district in which he commanded, had stated to him that applications of that kind tended to break and destroy the discipline of the troops. It was very necessary to preserve that discipline, especially where there was a considerable number of
 728 729 730 731
 Lord J. Russell,  was very happy to find that his proposal had been very fairly discussed, and in a spirit quite different from that in which the hon. Member for Maidstone had spoken at the commencement of the debate. With regard to the observations of the hon. Members for Oldham and Finsbury, he could not see any connexion between sheep stealing and the liberty of the subject. He thought industrious persons would be the greatest gainers by the measure, as it would tend to the protection of their property. With respect to the temporary nature of the bill, he must say, that although it might require some amendment in future it was not to be limited in duration, because that would defeat the object it was proposed to effect. At the same time it might be a question as to what was the best form of police for a country like this. He believed that one uniform system would be the best that could be established; but, at present, it was not easy to combine all the district forces under one head. He was of opinion that while there were different local institutions in the country, and all the transactions with reference to the management and government of prisons were carried on without reference to the Government in the capital, it would not be expedient to have a police dependent only on the commissioners at Whitehall, He considered that the proposed police, instead of being established for the purpose of putting down prædial or political outrage, would be formed for the permanent protection of the majority of the people; because otherwise a violent minority might not only he very mischievous, but overpower the peaceful majority. As to the difference of opinion which prevailed upon this question, he must say that if the term "unconstitutional" could be applied to this measure, it might be equally applied to the bill for establishing the metropolitan police force which was brought in by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, and for which both he and other Members voted, although they were in Opposition at that time. He had supported the plan, and his right hon. Friend (Sir J. C. Hobhouse), had also given it his cordial support. This should not be treated as a party question.
 The Speaker : It is certainly out of order for a Member to charge another
 735
 Colonel Sibthorp  declared, that the people were incensed against the Government because they had broken the promises which they had made. He wished the Government could alone be the sufferers, and then they would get a pretty considerable thrashing.
 Mr. Labouchere : Yes. Representations to that effect have been made to the Colonial-office, and there is a strong probability that, in some instances, it has been the case.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that the statements made to the Government with respect to this subject, showed that the utmost vigilance was required to prevent the evil referred to. He could only say, there were now communications going on between the Foreign-office and the Colonial Department on this subject, and no
 721
 Mr. Labouchere  stated, that in the last despatches from the governor of the Mauritius, which were dated the 2nd of April, he said that, on the 31st of March, a few days before, a final and complete emancipation of the apprenticed labourers had taken place in that colony. As only two days had elapsed, the governor had been able to afford very little information as to the effect of the measure; but as far as his information reached, it had been, upon the whole, satisfactory. The population was perfectly peaceable, although there was a disposition, on the part of the negroes, to leave some estates on which they were located. Very little reliance, however, could be placed upon any information that had been received on this subject. As to the other question which the hon. and learned Gentleman had asked, he must say, that the Orders in Council to which he referred, relating to marriages, vagrancy, the unauthorised occupation of land, and contracts for labour, had been promulgated on the 15th of March, and he trusted that he might confidently anticipate, that the same good effects which had been produced in the West-India colonies, where the orders had become the law of the land, would be produced also in the Mauritius.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that with respect to the condition of the Coolies in the Mauritius, he was happy to say, that the accounts, as far as they had been received, were upon the whole extremely favourable. As to the situation of those persons in Demerara, no positive information had been received at the Colonial-office. At the same time he was bound to say, with regard to the estate of Belle-vue, the one referred to in the newspapers, the accounts previously received at the Colonial-office were to the effect, that on that particular estate, owing to improper conduct on the part of the medical attendant, extensive sickness had taken place, which led to considerable mortality. He felt bound to state, in justice to the proprietor of that estate and the overseer, that the medical man was dismissed when this was discovered. He would only say, that while on the one hand the general condition of this people was not one of disease and mortality, at the same time there was abundant proof in the information that
 723
 Mr. Labouchere : last year an Order in Council was issued, by which the further importation of these persons was prevented. He believed, that since it had been issued, not a single Coolie had been imported.
 Colonel Brownrigg  said, that he had received information a fortnight later than
 722
 Mr. Fielden  did not think the establishment of a rural police would tend to decrease crime. As to violent outbreaks of the populace, which originated in distress unless the cause of dissatisfaction were removed, it would be useless to send a rural police amongst them. If the crime of sheep-stealing, for instance, was pleaded as an excuse for this measure, that was not a crime common to the working classes. What was to be the mode of appointment? Many of the rate-payers of towns were as respectable as the magistrates, and it would be nothing but fair that they should have a voice in the appointment, and also in the question as to the establishment of any police at all under the bill. He looked upon the plan of the noble Lord with the greatest apprehension. Instead of disarming the disaffected, it would lead to greater dissatisfaction and a more determined show of resistance, because the police would be regarded as nothing better than spies.
 Mr. Plumptre  could see nothing tyrannical or unconstitutional in a measure which merely provided for the establishment of a police force, he hoped no measure would be introduced which would not leave the appointment of the constables in the hands of the magistrates.
 Mr. A. Yates  referred to the report of the commissioners to show that there were various parts of the country in which the
 739
 Mr. Brotherton  said, there was no duty of the Government more important than that of taking measures for preservation of life and property, and no portion of the community was more interested in the maintenance of the public peace than the working classes. He had on all occasions supported those who wished to redress the grievances of the people. At the same time he was ready to give all proper powers to the Government. He thought, however, that the consent of the ratepayers in vestry assembled, probably of the Poor-law guardians of the different unions, might be obtained. Those bodies being chosen by the public generally should be consulted on the question of establishing a police force in any district.
 Mr. Hume  considered it a matter of great importance for her Majesty's Ministers to consider whether it were right and proper, that one half of a building intended for the use of the public should be occupied by the Royal Academy, when the president and council of that Academy had refused to give any account of their revenues and expenditure, or the proceedings of the association, although they enjoyed advantages conferred on no other public body. He understood, that that refusal on their part was in consequence of a legal opinion they had received, that the occupancy of a public building worth 3,500 l. l. l. 718
 Mr. Hume  would reserve all further observations till the discussion on his motion for enforcing the order for the production of the returns. But he might observe, in the mean time, that his object had been completely misunderstood. What he asked was, that her Majesty's Ministers would adopt measures to turn the Royal Academy out of the building as interlopers.
 Mr. Wallace  was of opinion that a new system of police was necessary, but he doubted whether, if the appointment and control of the constables were to be placed in the hands of the magistrates, the measure would give satisfaction to the country. He was quite satisfied that there ought to be a rural police, and the measure for its establishment ought not to be a partial one, but extended to Scotland.
 Mr. Estcourt  complained, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had taken an opportunity, in the absense of his hon. Colleague, to go into the whole of this case. It was well known, that the Royal Academy had been provided with apartments in Somerset-house by George the 3rd, that they had been removed from apartments to which they had a long established right to suit the public convenience, and placed in inferior apartments. He apprehended when his hon. Colleague had an opportunity of meeting the hon. Gentleman face to face, he would satisfy the House, that the production of the accounts would be attended with great disadvantage to the interests of the fine arts in this country.
 Mr. Wakley : the right hon. Gentleman has not stated, whether any step had been taken to preveut the further importation of those persons.
 Mr. Wakley  observed, that the hon. Member who spoke last wished the Act to be extended to Scotland. He wished Scotland had it altogether, and much joy of it into the bargain. He did not think
 734
 Mr. Ward  considered a measure of this description necessary, in order to enable the civil authorities to meet the difficulties which might arise without calling for the support of a military force. He should cordially support the bill.
 Sir J. Graham  had not intended to say a word on this subject till the bill was before the House, and till he had had an opportunity of examining its provisions; but after what had taken place he could not remain altogether silent. He was not disposed to offer any obstruction to the free expression of opinion, particularly on a subject so novel in its character as the one under consideration, but the freedom which he willingly allowed to others he had a right to claim for himself, and he could not remain silent after having heard the terms by which this bill had been characterized. It had been said that this measure was a declaration of war against the people on the part of the Government. He was not of that opinion. He considered this measure purely defensive. It was intended to meet an emergency which had unhappily arisen; but he should not enter into the causes which had produced the difficulties which rendered such a bill necessary. Perhaps, the Government was not entirely without blame; perhaps the conduct of the Government had had some influence in producing the state of things which rendered a bill of this description absolutely necessary; but he should not then enter on the consideration of that conduct. As he understood the noble Lord, the measure was rendered necessary by existing evils, and to curb and restrain that insurrectionary spirit which had unfortunately arisen, and which was making alarming inroads upon the peace and tranquillity of the country and tending utterly to destroy the security of property. He was of opinion that the introduction of this measure was imperatively called for, in order to secure the peace and tranquillity of the kingdom, and to put an end to those evils which had unhappily sprung up in some districts of the country. The establishment of a police force was not made compulsory by the bill. If it had been made compulsory, and if it had been proposed that the appointment of
 737
 Sir J. Graham  said, if it should be found necessary to release these unhappy persons from their contracts, even at some charge to the public, he hoped the delay of the recess would not be allowed to intervene. If the papers to be produced by the right hon. Gentleman sustained the case that these unhappy persons ought to be released and sent back, he thought that Government might appeal with confidence to that House, and the means would be readily afforded of doing what was due to humanity, to the honour of this country, and to those unfortunate people themselves.
 Sir J. Graham  wished to ask, whether the statement he had seen in the newspapers of the melancholy mortality of the Coolies who had been imported into Demerara was true or not? If true, he asked whether any step had been taken upon the subject of the release of those unhappy persons from the contracts into which they had entered? He also wished to ask, whether certain information had been received from the Mauritius with regard to those unhappy persons, of whom there was a large number in that island.
 Mr. Pakington  should regret exceedingly if the discussion of this question should be tinctured with anything like party feeling, for it was by no means a party measure. He fully concurred in the favourable mention which had been made by the noble Lord of the report of the committee relative to this subject, in the preparation of which the right hon. Gentleman in the chair bore so large a share. He considered that report a most valuable document, full of the most important matter, and arranged with the greatest care and skill, and he felt deeply indebted, and he was sure the country would feel deeply grateful to the right hon. Gentleman in the chair, and to those who acted with him in the committee, for the pains and attention which had been bestowed on the preparation of the report. He was sure that the police, as at present constituted, was not sufficient for the repression of disorder. In Birmingham and other great towns the chief officers of the police stated, that it was utterly impossible for the police to prevent the innumerable evils resulting from the system of beer-shops, and he, therefore, entirely concurred in the general principle of establishing the new police force. He was, however, anxious to know from the noble Lord whether the measure he proposed to introduce was intended to be permanent or temporary. If permanent, then he would say that at so advanced a period of the Session, and when a great number of those Members were absent who were most interested in a measure of this description, it would be most unfair to press it forward. If, however, it was only a temporary measure, intended to meet an emergency, he should certainly offer it no opposition. He did not know that such a measure was necessary in the
 736
 Sir T. Fremantle  would oppose the motion if he thought the measure contemplated by the noble Lord was to introduce a rural police into every agricultural district. But he was not opposed to an opportunity being given to districts which required a police force to form one. He knew that in many localities the more wealthy inhabitants were compelled to pay for the support of private policemen, otherwise property would remain unprotected.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in moving that the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into committee on the subject of the Bank of Ireland be now read, wished to ask the hon. Gentleman to withdraw the motion of which he had given notice, respecting an instruction to the committee. According to the strict rules of the House, those matters only could be moved as an instruction to the committee, which the committee itself was incompetent to perform without such instruction, but it was perfectly open to the hon. Gentleman to move in committee that of which he had given notice as an instruction. He did not wish to throw the slightest obstruction in the way of the hon. Gentleman, but he thought moving this instruction might be establishing an inconvenient precedent, and would not he in strict accordance with the regulations of the House.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the question raised by the Chancellor of the Exchequer was, whether a particular bank in Ireland should possess the unlimited privilege of issuing their own notes; so that the excellent speech they had just heard from the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets was really against the cause which he supported. When he recollected to have heard the hon. Member argue on a former occasion that the liabilities of joint-stock banks should be limited to their subscribed capital, so that the smaller the security you have to look to the greater your safety, he did not feel surprised at the course he had adopted on this discussion. The question they had to look to was, whether they would allow all other banks to be excluded from trading within a limit of fifty miles, and whether they would allow ten counties in Ireland to be thus handed over the exclusive discretion of one particular bank. He did not think the Chancellor of the Exchequer had treated Ireland well, nor did he believe that he would have attempted to use her as he had done if he had not been aware of the strength of English prejudices, and trusted to that source for support. The right hon. Gentleman had first of all raised suspicions in the breasts of English Members, by observing that it would he requisite to find gold for Ireland, and that that gold must be sent from England to Ireland. He admitted that such would be the case. But how, would the continuance of the monopoly
 823 l., l. l. s. d. 824 l., 825 "That the Bank of Ireland Charter, the report stated, interfered with our getting it; but they gave a distinct pledge that the Bank of Ireland Charter would not be renewed, a distinct promise to our deputation; and, had we not got that distinct promise, we would not have gone on when the difficulties were explained to us in the formation of our bank; we would have thought it useless: but we did it in the hope of better times, on the opening of the trade, even at the distant period at which we have now arrived." l. 826 827 828 l. l. l. l. l., l. l., 829 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that such a resolution could be quite as well considered in committee.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, if the hon. Gentleman wished to bring forward his resolution in the first instance, he had no objection to such a mode of proceeding.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was perfectly willing to give the hon. Gentleman a precedence.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was willing to adopt either course. [The House requiring the right hon. Gentleman to proceed he continued.] 775 776 777 778 779 780 781 Hear! 782 783 784 785 l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l. l. 786 l. l., "I think the Bank of Ireland at any time, at its greatest issue, did not give the accommodation to the public which it had a right to expect." "I think its capital ought to be for the accommodation of the public, when it could be safely given, instead of being tied up in the public funds." "The Bank of Ireland has not extended accommodation to the public in the way it ought and might have done." "Whenever a crisis came, as in the late panic, they acted with great illiberality." "I do charge the Bank of Ireland with an intention of putting down all the other banks." 787 l. "In the midst of general impoverishment, public debility, and national convulsion, we find the Bank of Ireland consolidated, strengthened, and exalted. Often as discontent and insubordination have agitated and vexed the island, the Bank has always stood hale and pursy. The rebellion of 1798—the insurrection of 1803—the panics of 1810, 1820, 1825, 1836—the famines, too numerous to be recounted, and too horrid to be described, have encountered it, have swept by it, and left it stronger in resources, grosser in wealth, and more formidable in power than they found it. Crisis after crisis, convulsion upon convulsion, came on the devoted country; but the Bank has never been moved—never swerved in the slightest degree from its selfish centre. It has evidently had but one rule of action—to make money, and run no risks. All argument on this subject is superseded by the one strong fact, that the sum total of its bad debts since the day of its creation amounts only to 338,500 l. O'Connell: 788 "What is the proportion?—I would certainly keep a portion; for example, we will say, the Bank of Ireland has with the Government three millions; I think if I had a bank such as you suppose, having that proportion with the Government, I would devote the whole of my accommodation, as far as safety would warrant, to the public, instead of putting the money into the funds; the whole beyond that." 789 "My question refers to the period at which the Bank of Ireland was discounting at a lower rate than the Bank of England; do you consider that prudent or the reverse? I was not aware of one point you make, which is, that they were under the Bank of England in their discounts at the time." Hume "You seem, in the previous part of your evidence, to have placed little reliance on the
 790 l. l. O'Connell "What do you think would have been the state of commercial affairs in Dublin at that period, if all the various banking establishments, the Provincial, National, Agricultural, and Northern Banks had had houses of issue in the metropolis?—I think their embarrassments would have been considerably increased, greatly increased." "Having described the state of the law with respect to keeping houses of business in Dublin, on the part of joint-stock banks, what do you think would have been the effect in the commercial crisis which occurred in the month
 791 "Your opinion, then, is founded on a state of facts, which you would conceive might very probably be shown to be misconduct, but with prudent conduct, and proper banking principles, the issue in Dublin would be no more dangerous than the issue in the country, kept within its proper limits?—Why, I do not see that the Bank of Ireland sustained any difficulty, from having any issue in Dublin as well as in the country. If every thing of the kind be kept within the proper limits, the panics will not arise; but the great difficulty, in cases of this kind is, how to assign those limits, and that if you afford to parties having a very extensive branch bank establishment over every part of the country, the facility of an unrestricted issue of notes in Dublin, and subject them to the competition which must arise in Dublin from all parties being allowed so to issue notes, I greatly fear the consequence would be, in a time of pressure, to increase the difficulties of the parties in Dublin." "Bringing within the metropolitan limits, now exclusively assigned to the Bank of Ireland, such as exist without those limits, what do you think would be the effect; would it be salutary or injurious?—I think that if there was no other restraint than exists in other parts of Ireland, and that we have no check to the increase of the numbers by the better mananagement of banks, I should greatly prefer seeing the monopoly of the Bank of Ireland continued in Dublin, than throwing open the issue of notes to all parties without restriction." "You would be afraid to trust to the restraint arising from the competition of rival establishments, and the rapid returns of the issue of notes?—Yes, I would." 792 "Is it not almost certain that there would be that tendency among banks issuing in competition simultaneously at periods of commercial prosperity and consequent excitement on a rise of prices?—I think the temptation to an over-issue would be greatly increased by their all having establishments in Dublin." "Supposing that in the month of October 1836, all the joint-stock banks of Ireland had possessed and exercised the privilege of issuing notes in Dublin and the metropolitan district, do you consider that the pressure upon the metropolis would have been other or greater than it was when that crisis occurred? My conception is that it would have been greater." "Do you consider that the exclusive privilege of issue which is now enjoyed by the Bank of Ireland, gives to that Bank any injurious monopoly within Dublin and the metropolitan district?—I do not conceive that it does." 793 "If the joint-stock banks of Ireland had been authorised by law to issue notes in Dublin as well as in the provinces, do you think the commercial pressure would have been greater or less than it was?—Had they carried on all manner of banking business in Dublin and issued their own notes, I should have been disposed to say the pressure on some of these banks might have been greater." 794 795 796 797 Hume l. l. 798 799 800 l., l., l., l. l. O'Connell: l. s. d. l. s. d., l. Hume: l., l. 801
 Mr. O'Connell  inquired what amount of expense was occasioned to the Bank of Ireland by the management of the public debt?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : The Bank of Ireland employ an establishment of forty-two persons, at salaries in one department of 17,000 l. l. l. l., O'Connell: maximum, l., l. l. l. l. l. 802 l. l. 803 l. 804 s. d., d., d. panacea; s. 805 l. "That it is expedient to continue for a limited period to the Governors and Company of the Bank of Ireland certain of the privileges now vested by law in that corporation, subject to such conditions as may be provided by any act to be passed for the purpose in the present Session of Parliament." "That the Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland shall be entitled for all Exchequer-bills (being bills issued in pursuance of two acts for the relief of the owners of tithes, and for abolishing compositions for tithes in Ireland, and not exceeding in the whole 900,000 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would trespass upon the attention of the House only a very short time in replying. Never was the House called upon to give a more important vote; but at the same time he would remind them, that this resolution was one on which a bill was to be afterwards founded, which they would have ample opportunity of discussing in detail in its various stages. If they were to vote against the resolution, they would be deprived of the opportunity of considering the details of this very important subject. He could not help remarking, also, that those who were opposed to the existence of the monopoly of the Bank of Ireland would defeat their own object by voting, that the Chairman now report progress, because by refusing to consider this subject, they would leave the bank of Ireland as at present. He could not help observing, that the hon. Member for Bridport, who disapproved of the principles of free trade in banking, should support the hon. Member for Kilkenny, whose object was to destroy the monopoly of the Bank of Ireland, and establish a free trade in banking all over the country. The hon. Member for Kilkenny was for a free trade in banking; and his views went to this extent—that every man should have the right to make use of his capital in banking purposes as he thought proper, and issue notes to any extent, without any control beyond that of public opinion. Now he would ask, how were such views as these to be reconciled with the opinions of the hon. Member for Bridport? For his part, he, having had some personal experience in banking concerns, gave it as his decided opinion, that a great system of branch banks in Ireland could not be carried on with safety either to the shareholders or the public, if they had the power of issuing their own paper in Dublin. If such a scheme were to be attempted by the joint-stock banks, the sooner the shareholders withdrew their capital from them the better, both for themselves and the public. With respect to any charge of breach of faith on the part of the Government in this matter, as alleged by Mr. Callaghan, he denied that any promises of the kind had been made by him; and he had, moreover, applied to Lord Ripon, in reference to what had taken place at the
 832 "That he had no very distinct recollection of what had passed on the occasion referred to, but that there could be no doubt that he (Lord Ripon) had not, because he could not, have given any pledge as to what was not to take place till fourteen years afterwards; and further, that he recollected stating, that he did not think anything further could be given to the joint-stock banks of Ireland beyond the power of suing and being sued."
 Mr. O'Connell  protested against having a measure so important in its nature decided by such a House as was present during the greater part of the discussion. At one time there were only thirty-five Members present. He put it to the right hon. Gentleman, whether he could hope to have the bill read a second time before the 20th of August, a period when there was no chance of a House, the grouse shooting having commenced, and the partridge approaching. He must again move, that the Chairman report progress.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  should certainly consider it a direliction of duty if he gave way to the Opposition. It was perfectly notorious in Ireland, that he meant to propose the prolongation of this charter for four years.
 Mr. O'Connell  must positively assert, that the people of Ireland had no more notice than three weeks. A more mischievous measure than the present had not been introduced in any Session.
 The Speaker  thought it would be more in order to move the resolution in committee than by way of instruction.
 Mr. Warburton : The great doubt was whether it was expedient to legislate on the subject this Session or not. If the House allowed the right hon. Gentleman to go into committee, it would be held, that they conceded the principle, that it was expedient to legislate during the present Session.
 Mr. Warburton  did not agree with his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny respecting free-trade in banking, and believed it to be possible that there could be an over issue with such a trade. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had very properly stated that there could be no over issue, provided people when they were called upon actually paid in specie. Why that was the question at issue. If they allowed a free-trade, would there by any guarantee for paying in specie? The more freedom they gave to banks of issue, the more danger was there of departing from metallic currency. He was also opposed to the motion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman admitted that the renewal of the Charter to the Bank of Ireland was founded upon false principles, and that, in renewing this charter, he was breaking through those sound principles. Why, then, renew this charter at all? Why not, at least, separate those two functions of a bank of issue and one conducting the ordinary routine of business. If they were anxious to place banking upon better principles they had now an opportunity of trying the experiment upon a small scale. He thought that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was perfectly correct in objecting to a measure of this importance being proceeded with at so late a period of the Session; and for that reason he would support the amendment.
 Mr. Hume  was only desirous, that the subject should be fully discussed—as to the manner of the discussion, he was in the hands of the House. He could only say, that the present course had been adopted after consultation with the right hon. Gentleman and the Speaker. If the statement he had to make could not bear examination after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, it would be better that he did not make the statement at all. Therefore it was a matter of entire indifference to him whether he had precedence or not.
 Mr. Hume  would not address himself to the latter resolution, unless the Committee agreed to the first: for if the Committee agreed to the first, which he thought that it ought not to do, a better occasion than the present would be offered him hereafter for discussing the second. He should address himself to the subject generally which the right hon. Gentleman had brought before the Committee; and he should commence by stating that he had not heard any, the slightest reason why he should agree to this first resolution. He agreed, however, with the right hon. Gentleman—that the subject was of great importance, not only to the people of Ireland, but also to the people of England; and he complained that being, as it undoubtedly was, a subject of great importance, it had, after an inquiry protracted over the long space of three years, been brought on at the very last period of the Session. He complained of
 806 l., 807 808 ad libitum l., l. l. l. l. l. 809 "It is clear," he said, "that bankers only legitimately issued as a demand arose in the prices of a country; but prices may be above the relative value of the country, and in that case an over-issue may exist." "Suppose there was an issue to excess, what would be the consequence?" "It would be returned to the bank." 810 "With regard to the extension of the term of your exclusive privileges, I must observe that Parliament will never agree to it; such privileges are out of fashion, and how could the Bank expect that their exclusive privileges would be renewed?" l. l. l. l. 811 l. 812 813 l.
 Mr. Hume  rose, but was interrupted by Sir  R. Peel, 774
 Mr. Hume  would agree to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman. All he wanted was to have an opportunity of moving his resolution, which he would quite as willingly do in committee as before.
 Mr. Hutton  said, he disapproved as much as his hon. and learned colleague (Mr. O'Connell) did, of the present system of banking, as practised by the Bank of Ireland, and he thought that the people of Ireland had great reason to complain of the want of liberality that had been exhibited by that establishment. If they meant to deprive the Bank of Ireland of the power of issuing notes, and thus return to a sounder basis of action, he would gladly concur in the motion; but
 830
 Mr. Redington  contended, that no case had been made out for a renewal of the charter of the Bank. He thought, that the limited district of its monopoly was disproportionately large, as an area of fifty
 831
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  could assure the Government, that the course they had taken on this subject had excited great surprise and dissatisfaction throughout Ireland. The question they had to deal with was, whether it were just to create in favour of one company advantages which they were not prepared to give to others. Justice and reason alike repudiated such a principle. He hoped the hon. Member for Kilkenny would press his amendment to a division.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  knew no instance of a detrimental exercise of the exclusive privileges of the Bank of Ireland within the circle of its operation. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had avowed his adherence to the principle of free trade in banking, and asked if several joint-stock banks issued too many notes, would they not return upon them? No doubt they would, but the misfortune was that when they did return, the joint-stock banks, as in the case of the Northern and Central Bank, were sometimes not able to pay them. His hon. Friend dwelt much on the Scotch system of banking as perfectly sound and safe. He thought, on the contrary, that there never was a more unsound principle than that of the Scotch Banks. If an individual could get another possessed of property to join him in a bond, a Scotch Bank would lend him capital to establish manufactures, or carry on trade. He was convinced that banking carried on to any extent upon such securities must be highly unsafe. He should give the motion his ready and cheerful support.
 Sir R. Peel  thought it was desirable to adhere strictly to the forms of the House. Suppose the hon. Gentleman to succeed in carrying his resolution, then he would have to bring in a bill, and carry it through the House, to carry that resolution into effect.
 Mr. Clay  did not think his hon. Friend had laid sufficient grounds to induce the House to agree to his amendment. With regard to the peculiar condition of Ireland as bearing on this question, he did not think it necessary to trouble the Committee with more than one or two observations: first, because the Chancellor of the Exchequer had gone into the question at great length; and, secondly, because this question had now become entirely a question of principle. The privileges enjoyed by the Bank of Ireland would cease in 1844, the same as those possessed by the Bank of England; it would then depend upon the Parliament to determine what system should be permanently established. The question now before the House was as between what his hon. Friend called the system of free trade in banking—that was to say, in issuing of notes—and the best system of control which it was possible the wisdom of Parliament could devise. As regarded the present condition of Ireland in relation to this question, he would only make two observations; first, that there was no evidence given before the Committee, for which he himself moved, and which he constantly attended, to show that there was any want of fair banking accommodation in Dublin to persons worthy to receive it, or that a man might not get a good bill discounted; and it would not be a good system under which a man could get a bad bill discounted. Again, with regard to the pernicious influence said to be occasioned by the monopoly of the Bank of Ireland within the circle of fifty miles, the town of Drogheda had been expressly alluded to. It had been said, that it was especially hard to that town, that it should be excluded from the benefits of the free trade in banking which was enjoyed by
 814 "Let us," said one of the speakers, "look at the town of Drogheda. There the genuine effect of national enterprise manifests itself. To that town one may look with pleasure to what an intelligent and industrious population can effect. Several flax and cotton mills have been built there within the last seven years, some by joint-stock companies, others by individuals, and they are all doing well, and are full of work." 815 816 817 818 l. l. l. l. l. l., 819 "The history of trade in the United States for the last three or four years affords the most convincing evidence that our present condition is chiefly to be attributed to over action in all the departments of business—an over-action deriving, perhaps, its first impulse from antecedent causes, but stimulated to its destructive consequences by excessive issues of bank paper, and by other facilities for the acquisition and enlargement of credit. …. In view of these facts it would seem impossible for sincere inquirers after truth to resist the conviction that the causes of the revulsion in both countries have been substantially the same. Two nations, the most commercial in the world, enjoying but recently the highest degree of apparent prosperity, are suddenly without any great national calamity, arrested in their career, and plunged into embarrassment and distress. In both countries we have witnessed the same redundancy of paper money, and other facilities of credit—the same spirit of speculation—the same partial successes—the same difficulties and reverses, and at length nearly the same overwhelming catastrophe." 820 "Possessing a wide and fertile country, a climate adapted to the production of everything which contributes to the health or happiness of man, with an enterprising and intelligent population, with the friendship of all nations, the bounties of the earth and the smiles of heaven, it would seem that we must be prosperous and happy above all people; but when we inquire into the actual condition of the people, we discover that actual distress and gloomy forebodings have spread dismay and ruin over prospects recently so brilliant. Bankruptcy has overtaken thousands of our most worthy and enterprising men of business; our banks are unable to meet their engagements; instead of a sound and healthful currency we have a paper circulation, based upon promises which are not performed, or, what is still worse, a species of paper currency containing no promise to pay till after a lapse of time which will wear them to rags. The merchants are unable to pay the manufacturers; the manufacturers are unable to go on with their work; the labourers are unable to pay for bread; and the spindle and the loom and the tool of the artisan are still, and thousands who twelve months ago enjoyed a comfortable subsistence from the rewards of honest industry are now trembling on the brink of despair." 821 822
 Sir William Somerville  rose, in the name of his constituents, to protest against the town of Drogheda being included within the circle of the Bank of Ireland monopoly. It had been stated that Drogheda had prospered under this monopoly. It was true that the town of Drogheda had prospered, but it was in spite of the monopoly, and was altogether attributable to the improvement of steam navigation. He felt bound to resist the motion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. O'Connell  would confine himself to the question before the House. The Chancellor of the Exchequer stated last night, that there had been no contract between him and the Bank of Ireland. Unfortunately for him, however, persons immediately concerned had shown a document as like a contract as anything could possibly be; so like, indeed, that it would be very difficult to show that they were not identical. The effect of it had been, that bank-stock had risen three per cent. even before the right hon. Gentleman made his statement to the House. That such a document did exist, purporting to be a contract, he (Mr. O'Connell) was warranted, from the information he had received, in stating. That it was not a contract he was ready to admit, the Chancellor of the Exchequer having stated that it was not; of course what the right hon. Gentleman stated he did not dispute. But he did say, there must be some neglect somewhere in putting it in the power of these persons to give a favoured few the
 887
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said,
 888 889 890 891 892 893 "Gentlemen, as one of the deputation sent to London, to communicate with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the Bank of Ireland monopoly, Dr. Atkinson, and I think it
 894 895 896
 Mr. O' Connell  did not shrink from a single word which he had said, nor had what had fallen from the right bon. Gentleman made any difference in his opinion. He did not believe that any one, but the right hon. Gentleman himself, would suppose that, when he talked of a favoured few, he alluded to persons who were favoured by the right hon. Gentleman. There were two parties to the arrangement, and each might have favourites. The words "favoured few" seemed to be taken for what he would not call declamation, but something that resembled it. But what he had stated he would repeat, namely, that the arrangement had been conducted in so loose a manner, and that although no contract had been entered into, such documents passed as enabled persons to avail themselves of the belief of a contract to the extent of causing a rise of three per cent. in bank-stock. To that statement he adhered, but he did not for a moment attempt to insinuate, that the right hon. Gentleman had entered into a financial arrangement in order to enhance the profits of individuals. As to the Drogheda document which the right hon. Gentleman had read, he wished him joy of it. If the report were true, and there was nothing to vouch for its accuracy, this deputation was composed of the silliest men whom the community could produce. But what business had the right hon. Gentleman to bargain with the deputations? To be sure the right hon. Gentleman guarded himself by saying, that he did not pledge himself to any thing that might pass in conversation, and then he went on to ask "Suppose the limits of the Bank of Ireland monopoly or privilege were confined to a circle of twenty miles, would there be any objection with this condition, to the renewal of the Bank Charter?" The deputation at once assented to this proposition, as it would enable the towns of Drogheda, Dundalk, Newry, and other towns, to be placed on
 897
 Sir J. Norreys  would give the Chancellor of the Exchequer's proposition every opposition in his power, because he thought it quite wrong that a measure so deeply affecting all who possessed any property in Ireland should be brought on so late in the Session.
 Mr. Villiers  rose to vindicate his vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny last evening, and to express his intention to support him if he divided again to night; he was induced to do so from the misrepresentation of the object of that motion which he had heard that night. Hon. Members who opposed the hon. Member for Kilkenny said, that nothing could be more objectionable than the present exclusive privileges of the Bank of Ireland. And what was the motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny? Why, that these objectionable privileges should not continue. He thought they were objectionable; they had not been justified by any person who had spoken; nothing had been adduced in their favour, and he asked in vain for a reason to justify their continuance. But he supported the Member for Kilkenny, because he voted for what he intended, and not what others imputed to him. He had heard with surprise the attempt that had been
 901 902 903 904 905
 Mr. Ellis  said, he was anxious to seek a brief indulgence from the House, seeing that he had been precluded last night from making any observations on the grave question under consideration, owing to the Chancellor of the Exchequer having anticipated him in rising, with the view of replying to the entire debate which then took place. His constituents were much interested in the question. The right hon. Gentleman had read an account of a meeting lately hell in Drogheda; in consequence, however, of the copious remarks that had been subsequenly made by hon. Members, the manner in which they had been able upon personal and well established information to dissect the statement and expose its incorrectness, he could not congratulate the right hon. Gentleman upon any advantage which he had gained by relying upon newspaper authority. The question which they had to debate was, whether or not they should renew the exclusive privileges, with certain modifications, of the Bank of Ireland. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the opening portion of the speech which he delivered last night, remarked, that throughout the whole Session a question of more vital importance as affecting the interests of England, no less than those of Ireland, had not been introduced. He could not then forget, that they were discussing the propriety of renewing the charter on the 26th of July, and he rejoiced to hear the right hon. Baronet condemn her Majesty's Ministers for having delayed for so unreasonable a time the introduction of that measure. The bill having vegetated in the mind of the Chancellor of the Exchequer for nearly four years, and allowed to be of such absorbing interest, he wondered that it was not made one of the topics in
 906 907 "We have a further proof of what has been advanced in the experience of Scotland, which has escaped all the convulsions which have occurred in the money-market of England for the last thirty-five years, though Scotland during the whole of that time has had a circulation of 1 l. l. l. 908 l. l., l. l., l. l. 909
 Mr. O'Connell : The right hon. Member for Tamworth made an observation which he thought deserved an answer; and that was, that the questions of banking, as they affected the entire empire, ought to be examined at once. That might be very well done by taking up the subject early next Session, and reserving the present bill for that time. He should hope there would be sufficient attention given to the Irish question if it were mixed up with the English. If it were not, he despaired of its being properly canvassed. The conduct of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer throughout these proceedings, was certainly calculated to confirm the view of those who thought his character more marked by ingenuity than candour. He pressed upon the House the propriety of postponing the question till next Session, and he would, therefore, move, that "the Chairman do now leave the Chair."
 Mr. Law  proposed to amend this clause by requiring that barristers to be appointed magistrates under the bill should be of "ten" instead of "seven" years' standing, and that they should hold office during good behaviour. When he considered the extraordinary powers that were to be vested in those magistrates, and when he looked at what they had clone with respect to all the corporations of the kingdom, he thought that these offices should be held upon at least the same tenure as that of recorder throughout the country. This bill proposed to supersede the functions of a common jury, and enable a single justice to convict her Majesty's subjects of felony. The public interest demanded, therefore, such a selection of barristers should be made as would com-
 911
 Mr. Wakley  objected to the Secretary of State being limited in his choice to gentlemen of the bar. Why should they be bound to appoint lawyers, if other men, equally qualified, could be found? And in his opinion nothing could be easier than to find men quite as well qualified as lawyers were. No men to be met with in society were so utterly destitute of common sense as lawyers. One day they were engaged in showing that truth was falsehood, the next in proving that falsehood was truth; their understandings, therefore, became so perverted, that they ever afterwards found the greatest difficulty in separating the one from the other. The effect of such measures as this would be to convert the whole bar into a set of Government toadeaters. The question was one of great importance, and he was resolved to divide the House upon it. He concluded by moving that the words, "barrister of seven years' standing" be expunged.
 Mr. Law  said, he should vindicate the honourable profession of the law from assaults made upon it by the Coroner for Middlesex. The hon. Member had, perhaps, some misgiving respecting the office of coroner, and might, possibly, be apprehensive that at some future time a bill might be introduced declaring that none but Members of the legal profession should fill that office. In general, animals that were hunted felt a strong antipathy to those which hunted them—some persons there were who felt an antipathy to lawyers, and some even who hated judges.
 Mr. Kemble  thought as the judges of the land had been rendered independent of the Crown, and as one of the objects of this bill was to improve the character of the magisterial bench, the persons ap-
 912
 Mr. Hume  expressed his opinion that the advance of the salaries of the police magistrates from 800 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that the amount of these salaries had not been fixed without reference to the evidence given before the Committee. As the police magistrates would have to attend every day at their courts from ten o'clock in the morning till five or six in the afternoon, 1,200 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hawes  said, 1,200 l. 913
 Mr. Grote  was of opinion that 1,200 l.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that in consequence of the noble Lord the member for Dorsetshire (Lord Ashley) having declared his intention of opposing the bill if it were not extended to silk mills, he (Lord J. Russell) had determined to withdraw the bill.
 Mr. Warburton  thought it would be much better to let this question stand over till next session, and that then a committee should be appointed to inquire into the whole subject of currency and banking.
 Mr. Hume  utterly denied that his object was to overturn the whole system of banking in Ireland, and that the right hon. Gentleman's understanding of his letter was altogether incorrect. He had been waited upon by some gentlemen from Ireland, and, he said to them that if it were proposed that the Royal Bank of Scotland should have an exclusive privilege of issuing paper money within fifty miles round Edinburgh, did they think the people of Scotland would submit to it? And why should the people of Ireland submit to like injustice? He added that, if the Members for Ireland were as active as they ought to be, and if the people of Ireland were as zealous as the people of Scotland, it would be utterly impossible for any Chancellor of the Exchequer to succeed in carrying a measure of so much injustice.
 Mr. Redington  also had attended the deputation, and the impression conveyed to his mind was exactly the same as that conveyed to the mind of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin.
 Sir R. Peel  said it was quite true that in 1819 he proposed as a very desirable course that the current paper circulation should be converted into money; but he did not see that this at all implicated the principle of free trade in banking. He did not think either that a free trade in commercial matters necessarily included a free trade in banking. On the contrary, in 1819, when he proposed that the notes in circulation should be converted into gold,
 898 899 900
 Sir W. Somerville  said, that he also had attended the deputation, and he left the presence of the right hon. Gentleman under the conviction that the Towns of Drogheda, Dundalk, and Newry were to be relieved from the operation of the bank monopoly. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would reconsider this subject before he took a contrary course.
 Sir R. Peel  wished to make a few observations upon this subject, which, perhaps, it would be more convenient for him to do now than when in Committee. There were some suggestions which he had to offer, and which he hoped sincerely the noble Lord would adopt, for the alteration of the details of this bill. If, however, the noble Lord should reject these suggestions, he should feel obliged to take the sense of the House upon some of them, when in Committee, with a view of trying the question. The suggestion which he had in the first place to offer to the noble Lord was, that the noble Lord should, in the present position of affairs in Birmingham, take to himself for a time the power of appointing a salaried magistrate to superintend the police of that town. He asked that the noble Lord should do this only for a time, say for three years, until it should be decided under whose control the police force of that town should hereafter be placed. His intention was to give such support as he could to the proposal of the noble Lord, for increasing the military force of the country; and he confessed, that he should have felt bound to do so, if the noble Lord had proposed a larger increase, on account of his firm conviction, that looking both at the external and internal relations of the country, more especially our operations in the East, there was a likelihood of greater burthens being imposed upon our present military force than was consistent with the due execution of the functions and the safety of the country. He intended, also, notwithstanding the advanced period of the Session, to give his support to the measure which the noble Lord proposed for putting the civil force of the country in a more efficient position, He conceived that it was not a
 939 940 l. 941 "The question now raised on this charter is one of very great doubt and difficulty; the existing corporation and town-council of Birmingham have been formed in a manlier altogether different from that provided by the statute 5 and 6 of William 4th. c. 76. in respect of the ancient corporate towns, and although the Crown, in virtue of its common law prerogative, might grant the charter in question, and might thereby incorporate the town of Birmingham, and create the mayor, town-councillors, &c, who might legally perform all the ordinary functions of a corporate body, it certainly does not necessarily follow that the crown could vest in the corporation, or any portion of it, powers beyond the reach of the prerogative of common law, and which could only be legally conferred by the act of the Legislature. The mode of creating and originally forming the new corporation contemplated by the 141st section of the statute 5th and 6th William 4th., and the 49th section of Statute 1st Victoria, cap. 78, and of dividing the towns to be incorporated into wards, has been altogether unprovided for by these statutes. This omission was no doubt an unintentional one on the part of the framers of these acts, and has left, therefore, in very great doubt the degree of power vested in the new corporate bodies; for it may very fairly be contended, that, although the Legislature were willing to give those extraordinary powers of rating, &c., to councillors elected under the provisions and subject to the guards and restrictions provided by statute, they did not intend to vest such powers in a body con-
 942 943 "They were aware that there was no man who had more strongly urged the right of the people to resort to physical force than he had. For twenty years he had been telling the people, that if they could not get rid of their grievances by one means, they must by another. At a late town's meeting, in the Town-ball, over which Sir Eardley Wilmot presided, he (Mr. Edmonds) had stated it as his opinion, that men in power would not be moved by any sense of justice, to do what was right for the people, unless they were afraid of something else. In fact, he stated that physical force was nothing less than what was represented by moral force. They would, therefore, see he had gone as far as any man in maintaining their right to resent their wrongs. But suppose he was to say to them, their wrongs were so great that they could not, and ought not, any longer to endure them, and that they ought to strike that night [cries of no, no, that won't do!']. Suppose he was to tell them that they must proceed forthwith that night to arm themselves [cries of 'no, no!']. Why they might as well that night as any other ['no, no']. They were as well prepared as that night month ['no, no!']. If it would not be wise that night, why would it be wise next week? ['no, no!']. He would say to them, be men of sense, and let them not he hurried into mischief. If he proposed to them to arm that night——[cries of 'no, no, it won't do!] Well, was there a man there, a man who would come forward and tell them when they ought to arm, and resort to physical
 944 disapprobation Hear! l. l. 945 "My friends, I repeat to you, if we are not strong enough to succeed by moral means, we are not strong enough to succeed by physical means. The latter will require a hundred times more labour, a hundred times more sacrifice, and a thousand times more expense and endurance than the former. Our interest, therefore, and our duty both combine. We must hold fast to the law. We must gather up the masses of the people. We must unite them all as one man. We must teach them to act under leaders, and at the proper hour we must precipitate the weight of their moral influence in one grand, legal, united, and overwhelming mass upon the Government. It is with this object, that we have recommended the assembling of the forty-nine delegates of the industrious classes in London. These honest representatives of the people will as-
 946 l. 947
 Mr. Scholefield  wished to say a few words in defence of the body on whom the right hon. Gentleman had vented so
 948
 Mr. T. Attwood  thanked the right hon.
 949 950 l. 951
 Lord John Russell  could wish, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and who represented the town of Birmingham, would a little pause from carrying his fears of danger to such a distance as he was wont to do, and that, instead of being alarmed at Prince Polignac's overturning our laws, and the Emperor of Russia interfering with our domestic politics, he would rather direct his anxiety and care to the condition of those fellow-townsmen of his, and some who, a very little while ago, had their property deliberately destroyed by a riotous mob. He certainly thought, that the hon. Gentleman, as well in the letter which he addressed to the people of Birmingham a short time after the riot, as in the speech which he had that evening delivered to the House, had shown a want of that which he should have expected in him—a strong and decided sense of disapprobation of the acts which had been committed; for in his letter the hon. Member made hardly any mention of the violent and riotous character of the proceedings which had disgraced the town; and, in his speech that evening, he had only spoken of them with reprobation, because he considered that they tended to injure the cause of political reform, and of those other measures of which he was the advocate He trusted, however, that the House was unanimously of opinion, that evils such as these—the shopkeepers and inhabitants of Birmingham having their property destroyed, and their houses committed to the flames—he trusted the House would be of opinion, that evils such as these were deserving of most serious consideration; and that they should direct all their efforts, without respect to any minor motives, to provide the means by which similar evils might in future be arrested. In addressing himself to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, with respect to the present state of Birmingham, and the necessity for this bill, he wished, before he stated the conclusion to which he had arrived in considering the proposal
 952 953 replevin, 954 955 956
 Mr. Hume  had heard with great regret the latter part of the noble Lord's speech, who was about to take a step which was little likely to produce the effect desired. The right hon. Baronet had made it a matter of complaint against the town-council of Birmingham, that they had observed a system of partiality in the appointment of their officers. Would the right hon. Baronet name a single corporation existing before the Municipal Corporation Bill was passed, and in which the majority of the corporation were Tories, that ever elected a Liberal to fill any office connected with it? He, however, rejoiced that the right hon. Baronet was at length convinced of the impropriety of that system, and he hoped that in future the right hon. Gentleman would discountenance all partial and one-sided elections. Great stress had been laid by the right hon. Baronet on certain expressions said to have been used by certain persons connected with the corporation of Birmingham, and which he conceived totally disqualified them from holding any official situation under it. This had not always been the opinion of the right hon. Baronet. He (Mr. Hume) recollected at more meetings than one which took place in Ireland, that language much more violent than was ever used by Mr. Edmonds had been uttered by persons connected with the party to which the right hon. Baronet himself belonged; and yet the right hon. Baronet never objected to those persons continuing to act as magistrates; nor did he scruple at a subsequent period to their being made privy councillors. [Sir  Robert Peel: Robert Peel: 958
 Mr. T. L. Hodges  rose for the purpose of noticing one or two observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Attwood), and which he thought the House must feel ought not to pass uncontradicted. The hon. Member had stated that an immense majority of the working classes in towns were Chartists, and that nine-tenths of the rural population were rick-burners. Having long lived in a country where some acts of that description had unhappily taken place, he felt it peculiarly incumbent on him to give the assertion of the hon. Member a positive contradiction. Would the hon. Member seriously say, that there was one in ten of the rural population guilty of the crime he had spoken of? Would he say that rick-burning had occurred in one parish out of ten, or out of twenty, or out of thirty? Such an assertion could not for a moment be maintained. Whenever a fire did occur, instead of that apathy which the hon. Member had described as marking the conduct of the labouring classes, being evinced by the people, or instead of their
 959
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that the doubt which was thrown upon the charter granted to Birmingham was not as to the validity of the charter itself, but as to the power of raising rates; that was to say, as to the power of taxation. The object, however, for which he principally rose was, to notice the objection which had been made with respect to the conduct of Mr. Edmonds. That Gentleman was his personal friend. He was a most respectable and honourable man, and also a thoroughly honest reformer. He had been charged by the right hon. Baronet, and censured by the noble Lord, for having engaged in defence of a Chartist. What was the situation in which that Gentleman was placed? He was, to be sure, the clerk of the peace for Birmingham, but he was also a practising attorney. If the House thought it right to make it unlawful for a clerk of the peace to practice as an attorney, then, should Mr. Edmonds continue to do so, he would be liable to punishment. But all that the law now said was, that he should not be at liberty to to practice at the Sessions in Birmingham; it did not deprive him of the right to practice away from those Sessions; and the charge against the parties for whom he had acted was triable at the assizes at Warwick. Therefore it was perfectly plain, that Mr. Edmonds was justified in defending—nay, was bound to defend those par-
 960 961 962
 Mr. Brotherton  said, the working people were suffering great privations, and he hoped nothing harsh would be done to them. The noble Lord had justly stated that Birmingham and Manchester had remained for a long time under institutions not suited to their increased population and wealth, nor to the changes in civilization and society. When the Municipal Corporation Act was passed, it was considered necessary that Manchester should receive a charter. The leading men, accordingly presented a petition praying that a charter might be granted; but certain persons interested in the abuses of the old system opposed the application, and every other attempt at improvement which in their opinion was likely to interfere with their pecuniary interests. None of the magistrates of that town were men of extreme opinions, and he challenged any one to deny that they had been chosen from the most respectable portion of the inhabitants, and having the greatest stake in the prosperity of the community. The aldermen and council of that town had applied to their political opponents to induce them to accept office along with them, being desirous to carry on the business of the corporation peaceably, and to the welfare of all the inhabitants. But acting under an infatuated principle the other party had refused. In Manchester they had stipendiary magistrates; in Birmingham there were none; and if the House would assimilate the two towns in that respect, and do away with all doubts as to the validity of their charters, he had no doubt that course would be attended with the best results.
 Mr. Wakley  hoped the noble Lord would not be induced to accede to the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet. The noble Lord last week had pressed the subject of this bill on the immediate consideration of the House—and from the earnestness of his manner he felt convinced that the noble Lord had perfectly made up his mind, and that he was quite prepared with his plan. But now, on hearing the objection of the right hon. Baronet opposite, the noble Lord proposed to withdraw the bill he had thus introduced and to bring in another. The noble Lord should recollect that he obtained an unanimous vote of that house for 10,000 l. 964 965
 Mr. Hawes  was not disposed to accede to the suggestions of the right hon. Baronet opposite on this question. He understood that the noble Lord merely intended the present plan to continue till the question as regarded the validity of the Charter was settled. The right hon. Baronet and the noble Lord had lately opposed him (Mr. Hawes) in his endeavours to extend the metropolitan system to the city of London, in consequence of the strong manifestation of public opinion against that extension. He was quite sure there would be a considerable manifestation of opinion in Birmingham against this plan of a Government commissioner, and he thought the plan of the London Bill might have been adopted with effect.
 Lord John Russell  wished to postpone going into Committee till Thursday next. In regard to the suggestion by the hon. Member for Lambeth, with reference to the principle of the London City Police Bill, he thought the situation of Birmingham and London was so different that it would not answer. The hon. Member for Finsbury, Mr. Wakley, seemed to think it was a sufficient objection to the proposed change in the plan, that it had been made by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, Perhaps the adoption of the suggestion might expose him to the imputation of acting on the advice of the right hon. Baronet; but if he thought the peace of Birmingham could be secured by following that advice, he would not for a moment hesitate from acting on it by any such considerations.
 Mr. T. Duncombe,  in rising to move, that it be an instruction to the Committee that they have power to introduce a clause to abolish the plurality and proxy voting in the election of guardians, said, he should not oppose at any length the question that the Speaker leave the Chair, because he felt so satisfied of the great dissatisfaction that the practice of plural and proxy voting had produced throughout the country, that he could not allow himself to anticipate that his motion would
 966 l. l.
 Lord John Russell  would not detain the House on this subject. The principle which the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury involved, might perhaps be properly discussed when the House came to consider the whole question of the New Poor-Law Amendment Act; but when it was remembered that plural and proxy voting had been sanctioned under three
 967
 General Johnson  said he would oppose the further progress of this bill, on the ground that it was totally useless. The power of the commissioners would not terminate before the next Session of Parliament, and he thought it far better that a bill should be introduced at an earlier period of the Session to amend, what all admitted to require amendment, the present law. He would move, that the House resolve itself into a Committee on the bill that day three months.
 Lord Worsley  hoped that the bill would be persevered with, as if it were given up, it, would lead the people of those districts where Unions had not yet been formed, to suppose that it was not intended to sanction the provisions of the Poor-law Amendment Act, after the present Session.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  objected to the period to which this bill proposed to continue the Poor-law commission.
 Mr. Wakley  could not, then, understand why the bill before the House should be continued for two years.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that in consequence of what had passed relative to the hardship of persons having married, expecting to receive parish relief in case of necessity, being altogether deprived of it, he should therefore, propose a clause to obviate it. The noble Lord moved such a clause.
 Sir T. Fremantle  thought that this clause did not go far enough in limiting its operations to the cases of parties who had been married previous to the passing of the new law; because its provisions were not known in many parts of the country for a twelvemonth or more after it passed, and in many parts it was not yet in operation at all.
 Sir Robert Peel  apprehended, that this clause would only render the operation of the law more stringent than before, by restricting the extension of this species of relief to parties who had married previous to 1834. The right hon. Baronet read a variety of returns, showing that a discretionary power was exercised by the guardians in various parts of the country, in favour of parties having young children, without any mention as to the period of their marriage.
 Lord John Russell  said, that by the present law, if a peremptory order was given by the commissioners to the guardians, not to give this sort of relief, they would be bound to obey it in all cases; but this clause would enable the guardians to relax the rule in the cases specified in it, in spite of such peremptory order.
 Sir T. Acland  said, that the more he considered the subject, the greater did the difficulties appear; he, therefore, thought that it would be better to postpone this clause until the whole subject came before them next Session.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he would consent to leave out of the latter part of the clause the words "married since the 14th of August, 1834," and the clause, as amended, would read as follows:—
 "And be it enacted, that in the case of any able-bodied labourer who shall respectively have been married before the 14th of August, in the year 1834, and who shall be unable by his industry to maintain his children, the issue of such marriage, it shall be lawful for the
 970
 Sir T. Freemantle  objected to any distinction being drawn between able-bodied labourers married before or after the date of passing the Poor-law Act. With the view of deciding on this point, he should move, that in the first part of the clause, the words "married before the 14th of August, 1834, should be omitted."
 Lord J. Russell  said, that the clause, as it originally stood, might be considered as fairly exempting persons married before the Poor-law came into operation, but as it was now drawn up, it would amount to a restoration of the allowance system. He must vote against it.
 Mr. Wakley  thought this measure much too important to be concluded at that late hour; and he also thought it was very necessary that the country should know what the House were about with this bill. The hon. Member moved, that the Chairman do report progress.
 Mr. Ellis  wished to ask a question of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with respect to the Shannon Navigation Bill. On the bringing up the report on that bill he distinctly gave notice of his determination to take the sense of the House on the third reading, and he was promised papers on the subject; but a course had been taken with respect to it that was unworthy of the station the right hon. Gentleman held in that House. The bill had been smuggled through the House at two o'clock on Saturday morning. He begged to know why such an unworthy course had been taken?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, with respect to the personal observation, he would not take the slightest notice of what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman. With respect to the papers alluded to by the hon. Gentleman, he had never told him they would be laid on the table of the House. On the contrary, he had told him quite the reverse—be had told him, that a letter from General Burgoyne would be put into his hands, but it was improper to lay either it or the other papers on the table of the House. So far as regarded the bill distinct notice had been given, and it was distinctly understood, that the bill was to pass the third reading that night. The hon. Member, therefore, had himself to thank for what had taken place, because if he had been in his place what he complained of would not have occurred.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, since the subject had been brought forward by the hon. Member for Lymington, a great portion of whose statements were founded on misconception, he would ask the noble Lord to permit that correspondence to be laid before the House. He also wished to know whether the noble Lord had received any information respecting the conduct of one of the magistracy, an account of which he (Mr. Aglionby) had read in a Liverpool newspaper.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that undoubtedly, if he did not entertain a reasonable confidence, that this bill would be actually brought into operation between this and the next Session of Parliament, he thought he should not be acting fairly if he asked the House to pass the bill this year. He certainly anticipated that, before the next Session of Parliament, if the House were to meet at the usual time, he should be enabled to try the experiment. With respect to the mode of trying it, that undoubtedly was a matter of very great importance, not only on the ground stated by the right hon. Baronet, namely the se-
 937
 Lord J. Russell  must decidedly object to the production of the correspondence. In answer to the second question of the
 935
 Lord J. Russell  said, that with respect to the state of Cockermouth, he could not think it was proper to endeavour to draw him into a discussion as to all the transactions that might take place with respect to particular parts of the country. He had to consider several points before in such cases he came to a decision. First, he had to consider the representations made to the magistrates by different persons who, in the present instance, did not agree; he had next to consider the representations made by the Lord-lieutenant of the county, by the general commanding in the district, and the commander-in-chief; Now, with regard to the state of Cockermouth, he had consulted not only the Lord-lieutenant, but the general commanding the district, and
 934
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that bills of equal importance had been passed through in the same manner; and it was necessary, that there should be some distinct understanding on this subject. He alluded to the instance of the Copyhold Enfranchisement Bill, a bill of great importance, to the compulsory clauses of which he had objected. He had been given to understand, that there should be sufficient notice when the bill was to be brought on. He had rested satisfied, that he would have an opportunity to state his objections to the bill. But when he (Sir E. Sugden) was absent, the bill was at a late hour of the night read a third time and passed. A more important bill, affecting
 936
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the plan of registration of letters, as recommended by Mr. Hill, would provide ample security for their safe delivery. They would be delivered with as much security as newspapers.
 Mr. Mackinnon  rose to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department on a subject of considerable importance: but he must in the first place read a communication which had been sent to Lord John Russell, and his Lordship's answer. The communication stated, that in April last, in consequence of the violent conduct of the Chartists, a letter was addressed to Lord John Russell by the magistrates of Cockermouth, stating that a considerable number of pikes had been made, and were still making, in Cockermouth and the villages adjoining; that the makers were known; that language was held out of a general rising; that the magistrates had no power to keep the arms which might be seized; that they therefore were compelled to solicit the advice of the Government with respect to the search for arms, and also such instruct lions as might exonerate them from being charged with supineness and neglect of duty on the one hand, or illegal rashness on the other. The magistrates also sotlicited his Lordship that a company of infantry might be stationed in Cocker, mouth, otherwise, being entirely without police, it was feared that life and property I would soon be in an insecure state. The application was made to Lord John Russell on the 9th of April last, and his Lordship in his answer refused to give any as-
 933 s. d. "Sir, I am directed by Lord John Russell to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 13th inst. In one part you remark that there is co doubt that the evil has arisen from the impunity with which these men, the makers of pikes and daggers, have been allowed to proceed since the month of March last, owing to the magistrates having no force at command to prevent a breach of the peace, which would have arisen in executing any warrant for their apprehension. Lord John Russell directs me to observe that this is the first time he has received any information from Cockermouth, and Lord John Russell regrets that earlier information as to the alledged state of Cocker-mouth has not been communicated to him."
 The Attorney-General  said, that ample notice had been given, that the bill would be read a third time on the Wednesday evening. It was read soon after eleven o'clock, when he believed the right hon. and learned Gentleman was engaged at a great festival in the city.
 Sir R. Peel : an understanding was come to, which he thought an equitable one, and one which ought not to have been departed from, namely, that his side of the House were not to offer any opposition to the progress of bills which were not contested, and that, on the other hand, the Government should not at a late hour press forward any bill in respect of which notice of opposition had been given.
 Sir R. Peel  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he had given sufficient consideration to the details of the subject, so as to be able to state whether it were probable, that any general or partial experiment could be made on this subject before the House again met after the recess. It was of the utmost importance that this subject should be maturely considered. If the arrangements made to carry out the object of this bill should introduce any insecurity in the delivery of letters, it would afford greater encouragement than ever to the practice of illicit communication.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the remark of the hon. Member for Bridport had rather alarmed him. The hon. Member said, that letters sent by post, and charged a penny, would be delivered as securely as Newspapers. There was a security with respect to newspapers which they had not with respect to letters. There were few persons who did not expect newspapers, and if they were not delivered properly they would go and make inquiry. There was, therefore, a positive check with respect to newspapers. But poor persons to whom letters were written, not expecting them would have no such motive for inquiry. He thought, that it would be a great obstruction to the advantages that were expected to accrue from this measure if it were attended with any insecurity. He thought, they might advantageously try the experiment in the first instance with the two-penny post in London, and with the experience of that trial, they might call upon Parliament to make the plan general. There was another point also to which the attention of the Government ought to be directed, namely, that they should not impose too much trouble
 938
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, there were three points involved in the present discussion. The first was that connected with the authority of the House the next related to the progress of the fine arts in this country; and the last, which he also regarded as one of great importance, was the welfare of the Royal Academy itself. These three points were by no means irreconcileable; on the contrary they were perfectly consistent with one another. The petition did not deny the authority of the House, but merely appealed to its discretion. He thought it was not a favourable way of putting the case of the Academy to say, as he had understood been said in the course of the debate, that the members of the Academy would rather go to Newgate, than submit to the order of the House. He could not conceive any doctrine more subversive of the authority of the House, than that which maintained that the Academy had a right to resist the order which had been agreed to. How the House ought to exercise its discretion was one question, but the right of the House to interfere, was altogether a different one, and ought not to be suffered to be compromised in this discussion or any other. If the public interest was involved in the conduct
 1027 1028
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose to call the attention of the House to a case of great hardship. The petitioner, John Thorogood, was a dissenter, and a warm partizan of the liberal party, and though a poor man, he hoped the House would not indulge in the idea that his religious scruples were not as conscientiously adopted, and as firmly fixed, as those of the noblest and richest in the land. The facts of this case were stated in a petition presented by the hon. Member for Leeds, whom he was sorry not to see in his place. He had subsequently presented another petition, in which this poor dissenter again complained of having been imprisoned in Chelmsford Gaol for the non-payment of 5 s. d. s. d. 999 1000
 Lord J. Russell  would not enter into the general question of church-rates, but restrict what he had to say to the case of the individual whose petition the hon. Member had referred to. The petitioner complained, that he had been treated with great severity in gaol; that was a distinct question in itself, and he would suppose fur the present, that such severity had been used; but then the hon. Gentleman went on to say, that, therefore, on account of this severity, church-rates, being a cruel and unjust system, ought to be altered. But it did not at all follow that if this petitioner had not been treated with this severity, the system of church-rates would not be quite as unjust and cruel. A man might be taken up on a charge of felony, and treated with undue severity, but it did not follow, that the law against housebreaking or robbery, was a bad law. With respect to this par-
 1001
  Mr. Harvey : He was not surprised that the noble Lord had characterised this motion as inconvenieut. Looking at the state of the session, and the vast importance of the subject which this application involved, it might be found very convenient to deal with the applicant as a very insignificant person. He regarded it of the first importance in every civilised community that individuals should be compelled to yield an instant obedience to the mandate of the law, otherwise it would be in the power of individuals from the most censurable motives, to defeat the process of the law. But why did they not apply the same principle to matters of this description that they applied to questions of property? If an individual withheld his answer on a question involving property, did they permit that the party should be put not only to great expense, but should be permanently withheld from his right, by allowing him to remain in perpetual imprisonment? They did no such thing; and the reason was obvious. One question involved a matter of property; the other of conscience. One party was treated with respect; the other with ridicule. A man resisting a demand from conscientious motives, and imprisoned in consequence, met with very little commisseration; but when a man withheld from some powerful individual information respecting the distribution of his property, all the apprehensions of justice were kindled, and he was made to feel the effects of his obduracy by a much milder treatment. If he did not give his answer voluntary it was taken  pro confesso. s. 1003 s. l. s. d: l. l. l., l. s. d. s. d. l. s. l. 1004 l. l. l. s. d. 1005 s. l.,
 Mr. Duncombe,  in order to meet the views of the noble Lord, would alter his motion.
 Sir R. Inglis  would oppose the change.
 Mr. Easthope  was glad that his hon. Friend had changed his original motion, so as to admit of the question being submitted to the consideration of the House, and of the present state of the law being canvassed without relation to individuals. He thought it of great importance that every discussion on this subject should as much as possible be divested of individual character, and that the state of the law, and that alone, should be contemplated by the House. Thorogood was incar-
 1006 s. d.;
 Lord J. Russell  did not mean for a moment to deny that the House of Commons possessed a right to call for those returns; but another question presented itself—could they call for them upon such grounds as had on the present occasion been stated. They surely could not consider themselves bound by a motion made after an adjourned debate on the Cornlaws, at a tune when the subject met but little attention from the Members of that House. It could not be said, that the returns now demanded, ought to be conceded because they were in continuation of returns previously obtained. The Royal Academy stated, that the demand for these returns interrupted their pursuits, and was an unnecessary calling in question of their proceedings. The returns could not be demanded on the ground that hon. Members did really require any
 1035
 Mr. Hawes  entirely concurred in the view taken of the subject by the hon. Baronet, and differed from his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny, who, in his opinion, had not made out a case for insisting that the order for those returns should be enforced. If there had been a  bonâ fide
 Mr. Warburton  contended that it was
 1025 l. l. 1026 sub silentio
 Mr. Hume  said, there could be no mo-
 998
 Mr. Hume : The noble Lord says he has not heard sufficient grounds for calling for the production of these returns; and when we consider that he was absent from the House during nearly the whole of the debate, that is not surprising; but what ar-
 1036 l. l., l., l., l. l. l., l. 1037 
 
 In salaries to the academicians £73,000 
 Their dinners 19,700 
 Their pensions. 12,000 
 Accumulated funds 52,000 
 Charities 19,800 
 For students at Rome 4,586 
 Expenses of the exhibition, about 36,000 l. l., l.
 Mr. Hume  rose to move that the return to the order of the 14th of March last he made forth-with, viz., a return of the amount of money received for admission, and of the number of persons who visited the exhibition of the Royal Academy of Arts in each of the years 1836, 1837, and 1838; distinguishing the entrance money from the proceeds of the sale of catalogues; together with the amount paid in salaries and perquisites to each person employed in that establishment in each of those years; also, the miscellaneous expenses under separate heads in each of those years; and the average number of students who have attended the Life School and that of the Antique, in each of those years. The hon. Member said, this matter had become one of considerable importance, and, in his opinion, called for serious attention, especially as no objection whatever had been made to the
 1008 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1009 l. l.; l., l. l., l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l., l. l. l.; l. l.; l. l.; l.; l. l. l. l. l. 1010 "If your petitioners had conceived that by their removal they should incur any new obligation—if they had supposed that they should be rendered amenable to any new authority, or subjected to any other responsibility, save that which they owed to their Sovereign, from whose gracious hand the President of the Academy received the keys of the building they now occupy, they could not have hesitated a moment to decline any advantage or accommodation that was to be purchased at such a price." "But whatever may be their pretensions, legal, moral, or equitable, to the undisturbed occupancy of their present habitation, your petitioners readily admit, that their best title is the use they make of it—the purpose to which it is applied. If your petitioners cannot hold it by this tenure, they desire not to advance any other claim. How far the Royal Academy has fulfilled the covenants implied under a lease of this kind, they now respectfully submit to the decision of your honourable House." "The creation of establishments for the regular cultivation of art, the mode, perhaps the most expensive and always the least effectual; that in this kind of corporate creation a spirit is often generated, as active as it is injurious, which perverts all zeal and disappoints all patriotism—the establishment spirit." 1011 "Most of the eminent painters of the present day were self-taught, and the ablest masters of the past will not be found amongst those who studied in the celebrated schools of Italy, but amongst those who formed them." "It would be more creditable to our industry, as well as to our knowledge, if we made ourselves competent to the task of instruction in that part of anatomy which is connected with our art. Whatever is necessary for a painter to learn, a painter should be able to teach; no other person can do his duty for him with equal advantage. * * * Anatomists can hardly be said to be acquainted with a living muscle, or an elastic motion. Amongst our errors of this kind, the general neglect of architecture as a study necessary to painting, is not one of the least conspicuous." "Whatever advantages may be supposed to arise from public exhibitions of the works of art, there is reason to fear that they are more than counterbalanced by the evils which attend them. * * * In this country, it must be acknowledged, that our greatest painters have not been the fruit of this tree. Reynolds, West, Barry, Hogarth, Wilson, Gains-borough, were ripe in fame and merit before it can be said to have been planted among us; and if we look abroad to the old masters, we find the most eminent amongst them were those who flourished antecedent to such establishments." "The members of the Royal Academy have zealously supported, for two-thirds of a century, the only regular, effective, or national school of art in this kingdom, comprising separate accommodations for the study of the antique, the living model, and the works of the old masters in the school of painting; all under the superintendence of the ablest professors." 1012 "They have instituted," say the academicians, "professorships for gratuitous lectures in painting, sculpture, architecture, perspective, and anatomy." l. "They have established an annual exhibition, to which all artists, without distinction, are allowed to send their works." 1013 "Two hostile generals cannot manœuvre with more dexterity to gain an advantageous position than two rival painters to secure the most conspicuous places in an exhibition room. But it is among those on whom the privilege of office confers the power of choice, that this evil effect is sometimes most strikingly apparent. To have the interest of our rivals in our hands, and hold the means to injure or to serve, affords an opportunity which generosity will accept for its honour, selfishness for its advantage, and malevolence will seize for its gratification." "They have instituted prizes in the different schools, to stimulate the industry and excite the emulation of the students. They have accumulated a valuable collection of casts, prints, and books, and provided every material and means of study necessary or expedient for the cultivation of the pursuits of taste." "They have gratuitously educated, according to the best principles of the art, nearly two thousand students, the most promising of whom have been enabled to pursue their studies in the schools of Italy at the expense of the Royal Academy, and the least successful of whom have been instructed in those acquirements which might qualify them to become useful agents of manufacturing and mechanical improvement." 1014 
 
 Sent out in Expence of each. 
 1771 Mauritius Lowe, painter £150 0 0 
 1772 Thomas Banks, sculptor 240 0 0 
 1777 John Soane, architect 240 0 0 
 1781 Charles Grignon, painter 240 0 0 
 1785 Charles Rossi, sculptor 240 0 0 
 John Deane, sculptor 240 0 0 
 1790 George Hadfield, architect 240 0 0 
 1795 William Arland, painter 240 0 0 
 Total Expenditure in 27 years £1,830 0 0 
 
 Sent out in Expense. 
 1818 Lewis Vulliamy, architect £470 0 0 
 1821 Joseph Severn, painter 470 0 0 
 1825 William, Scoular, sculptor 470 0 0 
 1828 Samuel Loat, architect 470 0 0 
 1831 George Smith, painter 470 0 0 
 1835 E. G. Papworth, sculptor 326 14 0 
 1837 John Johnson, architect, now abroad 80 0 0 
 Total in 19 years £2,756 14 0 
 Total in 67 years £4,586 14 0 l. l. "There is perhaps no civilized people of modern Europe amongst whom the principles of taste have been less generally diffused than among us." "The prevalence of portrait painting appears to have considerable influence in producing general inattention to the merits of design." 1015 "And the author fears that the course of study pursued in the Royal Academy is not pursued with sufficient vigour to counteract the evil. The students of that establishment are perhaps not enough impressed with the importance of a study, the traces of which do not appear to be particularly striking in the productions of those to whom they must look as their guide and example." l. l., "That your petitioners are surprised to learn that the royal academicians, located in a public building, and enjoying especial advantages and privileges from the Crown, after declaring that 'they can have no possible objection to make any return that may be required of them,' should now claim to be absolved from the order of your honourable House of the 14th of March. That the accumulated fund of the Royal Academy, which, in 1836, amounted to 47,000 l., 1016 "That your petitioner appeals to your honourable House that it is incumbent on the Royal Academy, as highly favoured by the Sovereign and by the public, more especially since their income has been, as your petitioner believes, increased by occupying a part of the National Gallery in Trafalgar-square, to lay before your honourable House every detail required by your honourable House; and your petitioner submits that the desire to conceal the information from the public is an additional proof, among many others in the history of all academies, of that narrow spirit which has rendered them in every part of Europe failures as to fostering genius, or realising in any way the noble objects the founders and supporters had in establishing them. That it is a known fact, that academies have ever given more consequence to men of humble ability, than distinction to men of great genius. That such is the opinion of Professor Waagen, the director of the Royal Gallery at Berlin, in his evidence before a committee of your honourable House; and Sir Martin Archer Shee has stated, that in this country it must be acknowledged that the greatest painters have not been the fruit of this tree. 'Reynolds,' says he, 'West, Barry, Hogarth, Wilson, Gainsborough, were ripe in fame and merit, before it can be said to have been planted among us; and, if we look abroad to the old masters, we find the most eminent amongst them were those who flourished antecedent to such establishments." 1017 R. Inglis: "Notwithstanding the  dilettanti forte
 Mr. P. Howard  seconded the amendment. He was not prepared to deny the right of the House to call for this return, but he thought that that right ought not to be exercised in an inquisitorial manner. The Royal Academy had by its exertions already produced most excellent effects; but he thought that its character would receive additional credit if, after having
 1024
 Mr. Hodges  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Wyse  observed, that the returns now sought were such as the House was entitled to from every public institution. Assuming the praises bestowed on the Academy to be perfectly just, he would say, that they formed excellent reasons, not against, but in favour of the motion which had been made by his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny, who wished to see the Royal Academy managed with that liberality which distinguished the institutions of the continent, and of which an example had been set even by the nations of antiquity—he wished to see that body throw open its doors with Athenian liberality; and he desired that the influence of the fine arts upon the public taste might be extended to the very humblest classes of the community.
 Mr. Ewart  contended, that the denial of these returns would serve to promote that interference which the right hon. Baronet so much deprecated. The real question before the House was, whether the Royal Academy was responsible or irresponsible to the House? This was not the first time the question had been raised. Four years ago he (Mr. Ewart) had brought forward the matter, and obtained a committee of inquiry. Before that committee the president of the Royal Academy was called, and there was great difficulty in getting him to answer any question. He maintained, that the House had as much right to call for returns from the Royal Academy, which conducted in rooms erected at the public expense, as it had to call for returns and informations form school houses built from funds granted by the public.
 Mr. P. Thompson  could not bring himself to vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and wished shortly to state the grounds on which he should give his vote. He confessed, had he been consulted, or if he had been a Royal academician, he should have advised the Royal Academy as a matter of prudence and propriety not to have refused these returns. He thought, the more the affairs of that body were known to the public, the more they would redound to their credit. At the same time, and without deciding at all the question of the right of the House to call for returns on good grounds being made out, he thought the hon. Member for Kilkenny had not either that night, nor when he moved for the returns, made out any case for their production. His (Mr. P. Thompson's) earnest desire was, that the Royal Academy should not refuse to give information, but at the same time he should be sorry if aid and protection were not given to a body which had been so eminently useful. Looking at the petition which had been presented, he was not surprised, that the body attacked by it should have some suspicion as to the motives of inquiries from such a quarter. And why interfere with them? What had the Royal Academy received from the Government, or the public, except the use of the set of apartments in which to exhibit their works and to carry on their business? And what did the Royal Academy do in return? It instructed pupils, it sent them abroad to cultivate and improve the arts, and the sums thus devoted by that body, were greater than even the pecuniary advantage from the use of the apartments which had been pointed out by the hon. Member for Bridport. In short, that body afforded the cheapest means by which to encourage the arts. He must, mention one circumstance which he thought redounded highly to the credit of that body. The House was aware, that by the liberality of Parliament, a school of design had been established on his motion at an expense of 1,500 l. 1034
 Sir C. Grey  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill for establishing throughout England annual meetings of people in their parishes, and for securing to the industrious classes a regular influence in the election of Members of Parliament. If any one supposed he was trifling with the House, or had not an earnest desire of carrying the Bill into effect, they did him great wrong. The time was come when it was absolutely necessary that Parliament should consider the situation and claims of that portion of the people who had no share in the election of Members, and he believed the circumstances of the age and time had, by increasing the intelligence, and consequently increasing the excitement and aspirations of that class of people, made it quite impossible that they should remain in the condition in which they had previously subsisted without danger. If any one suspected him of revolutionary principles, or of rashness in adopting this motion, he would appeal to the whole course of his life, to his known principles of loyalty, to the situations of trust he had held under the Crown, to his time of life and disposition, to protect him from so injurious a suspicion. In consequence of the great difficulties connected with the consideration of this question, he had selected this period of the Session for making Isis motion, and although it might appear paradoxical, yet he would avow it was not his expectation—it was not his wish that the measure should be carried into a law and completed this Session. His main object was to call the attention of the House to the subject, and his desire would be accomplished if he were permitted to lay the bill on the table of the House, and have it printed for future consideration. He proposed to confine the operation of the measure in the first instance to England. In a measure of such importance, it appeared to him that it should be tried in that part of the kingdom where it could be introduced with the greatest safety, and where it would be most under the controul of the executive government. But, besides, he was bound to admit that he was not so well acquainted with the internal divisions or local organization of Scotland as to enable
 994 995 996 997
 Sir H. Inglis  rose to move, as an amendment, that the original order of this House directed to the Royal Academy be discharged. He rejoiced, that this question had at length come to a regular issue. The burning zeal of the hon. Member for Kilkenny in defence of the arts had indeed induced him at different times to anticipate this discussion on occasions which none but himself could have considered fitting for it. Once he discounted his present speech in a committee of supply, when the motion
 1018 l. 1019 1020 l. 1021 l. Hume: 1022 Hume: 1023 quia improvide emanavit?
 Sir R. Peel  could not concur with any hon. Member in denying the right of the House of Commons to call for this information. He should be sorry to limit the jurisdiction of the House with respect to public institutions, even where none of the public money was received; but he would draw a clear distinction between all commercial societies, and all societies connected with the acquisition of gain, and institutions intended for the promotion of public objects. He, however, would not limit the right of the House of Commons to inquire into those institutions, even though they did not receive any of the public money; and in the case of the Royal Academy, their being accommodated with apartments at the public expense did, in his opinion, add to the right of the House of Commons to call for returns. But the question now was as to the discretion of exercising that right. He perfetly admitted the right, but he could easily conceive it expedient to exercise it; he could easily conceive that it might have a tendency to impair the usefulness of the society, and derogate from the efficient position in
 1029 1030 l., l. l. 1031 l. l. l. l.; l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1032
 Mr. W. Williams  protested against the clause as an infringement upon trial by jury, and called upon the House to adopt a suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Pembroke, to give the right of appeal in all cases of conviction for felony by the magistrates.
 Mr. Hawes  could not give his support to the measure in its present form. He was willing to give the boards of guardians necessary power to enable them to collect rates for the relief of the poor, but it was unfair to furnish them with greater powers over overseers than those which overseers possessed against ratepayers. Equal powers to boards of guardians and to overseers he was ready to concede, but nothing more. In the noble Lord's Bill power was given to boards of guardians to issue distress warrants against refractory overseers. But it should be recollected, that boards of guardians were partly composed of magistrates, and therefore facilities were afforded to proceed against overseers. If the bill were to remain in its present form, he should object to it in  toto,
 Lord J. Russell;  Sir, the bon. Gentleman does not seem to object to vest suffi-
 1044
 Mr. Grimsditch  objected to give to boards of guardians the power of issuing warrants of distress against overseers. He objected likewise to the mode in which the collectors were appointed, and as he could neither agree in the principle of the bill nor in its details, he should move that it be read a second time that day three months.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  seconded the amendment. He did not see why this question, as to the collection of the poor-rates, should not be deferred till next year, when the noble Lord had intimated his intention of bringing the whole subject of the Poor-laws under the consideration of the House. He must say also, that he saw no reason why the guardians should have the powers which the bill gave them over the overseers. But there was another objection to the measure. The second clause was abstracted in the margin thus:—"Order for appointing collectors declared valid;" and the clause began, "And be it declared and enacted," as if the Act was a declaratory Act, and the
 1045
 Mr. Clay  could not oppose the second reading of the bill, because it did not take the collection of rates from the local authorities. If they threw upon the guardians the burthen of relieving and helping the poor, it was necessary to give them the power of getting the means of doing so. He did not think the bill would be effective in its present state, but he trusted that alterations would be made in Committee.
 Mr. Wakley  said, the bill was so objectionable, that he hoped it would be rejected. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets objected to the measure; but, he hoped, that certain amendments would be made. That was the way they were everlastingly going on. When a bill of this kind was once read a second time, it was easily passed through Committee, and became the law of the land. He agreed with his hon. Colleague, in thinking that no bill honestly framed would ever emanate from Somerset-House. The powers of the Poor-law commissioners were enormous, and the present bill was as violent a coercion bill against a certain class of men as was ever framed. This was a bill of pains and penalties against those officers who resisted the introduction of the Poor-law Amendment Act. What pretence was there for introducing a law of this description into parishes in which parishioners were content with the present mode of management? The bill gave the commissioners the most extraordinary powers. In particular, the third clause was most objectionable. It was very specious in appearance, but he would tell the House to ask the Poor-law commissioners what power they would actually acquire by it? In less than three years, by the clause in question, the commissioners would obtain the entire control and collection of the poor-rates. It was declared, too, that all orders from the 6th of May last were to be deemed valid, no matter how illegal or now unconstitutional, or how much against
 1046
 Mr. G. Palmer  believed that the guardians in one or two parishes were under the direction of the Poor-law Commissioners and had acted upon their orders. The bill was intended to cover this illegality and was the reason why the clause was introduced, making all orders valid from the 6th of May. So much objectionable power was given to the commissioners by the Bill, that he should give it his most strenuous opposition.
 Mr. Hume  thought it would be unwise to proceed with this measure when a general measure was to be introduced next year to remedy those evils which were complained of in the working of the Poor-laws. This bill appeared to him to take from the parish officers the collection and control of the rates, and to make a further step towards the destruction of local government, and he must say that the House ought to have some better reason than had yet been stated in favour of it, before adopting it. He did entreat the House not to proceed with this measure, for it could not fail to give great dissatisfaction. The powers which the bill conferred were most extensive, and in his opinion most unwise. They were called upon to give the rules which had been laid down by the commissioners the power of laws, while the House had no knowledge of what those rules were. The Commons could not make a law without the consent of the other House of Parliament, but it was proposed by this bill to give the orders which had been issued by the Poor-law Commissioners, no matter what they were, the force of laws. That was certainly a most objectionable course, and he should give the bill every opposition. The subject of the Poor-laws would next year come under the consideration of the House, and the evil which this measure proposed to remedy was not so great as to make it desirable to legislate partially at the present moment.
 Sir R. Peel  said it might be necessary when the bill was in committee to consider what checks were necessary on the powers which the bill conferred, but the question which the House had then to consider was, whether a case bad not been made out requiring some legislation. And if there were overseers who, with the view of preventing the introduction or operation of the Poor-law Amendment Act, refused to collect the rates, he would on that ground alone vote for the second reading of the bill, in order that they might have an opportunity of considering in committee what steps should be taken to secure the impartial collection of the rates for the relief of the poor. Now, it was his impression that such was the object of the bill, and he thought that the House was bound to see that the Poor-law Act was fairly carried into operation, and that no persons should be allowed to avail themselves of the state of the law to prevent its introduction. Hon. Gentlemen opposite had become extremely sensitive and alarmed on the subject of the Poor-laws. He had supported the Poor-law Amendment Act, and while all was going smoothly hon. Gentlemen opposite had also supported the measure, and it was then loudly vaunted that the country owed the measure to the Liberal party. But the measure had been much complained of, and those who had once supported it appeared now disposed to divest themselves of all responsibility, and to condemn the whole system which it had established. On the hustings he himself had been complimented on having taken no part in the enactment of the Poor Law Amendment Act, but he had expressly stated to his constituents that he had supported the measure; and, although, he had not denied that there were individual cases of hardship, he had supported the bill, not because he thought it would be productive of advantage to the landed interest, but because he hoped, and sincerely believed, that its effect would ultimately be to elevate permanently the character of the labourer, and secure a fair remuneration for his industry. He must say that he would not consent to reject this bill on the second reading, when its object was to insure the fair collection of the rates, and prevent parties opposed to the Poor-laws from taking advantage of the state of the law to defeat their operation, and make their introduction partial.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that the principle which had been laid down by Lord Al-
 1048
 Sir Graham  said, it was his intention to vote for the second reading of the bill, but he did not mean to say that he would support the whole of the details of the measure when they came to be considered in committee. It was true that when Lord Althorp introduced the Poor-law Amendment Act, he stated that it was desirable that the local authorities should have the collection of the rates. He had some experience in the operation of the Poor-laws, and he could state that the rules made by the commissioners, to which the second clause of the bill applied, had been generally framed in consequence of representations made by the guardians, and with a view to give a greater facility to the working of the Poor-law Amendment Act. In rural districts the unions were composed of several parishes or townships, and in each of those there were officers for the collection of rates. But the duties of those officers were performed gratuitously, and they were so obnoxious, that it was with difficulty any person could be induced to undertake them. The consequence was, that they were ill and negligently per-formed, and with the greatest detriment to the rates and rate-payers. This state of things had led to the suggestion that paid officers would have greater facility in the collection of the rates, and be more likely to secure impartiality and fairness. Applications had in consequence been made to the commissioners, and he could assure the House that the orders to which the second clause related had been generally made at the earnest request of the guardians, and they had given great satisfaction to the rate-payers. The second clause was merely declaratory, and had been rendered necessary by the practice he had described. It simply declared that to be law which had generally been acted upon, and so convinced was he of the advantages which had re-
 1049
 Lord Worsley  said, his constituents thought this measure necessary, and he should give it his support. He was happy to hear what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, and be regretted that he did not use his influence to induce some of his party to follow the course which he himself pursued.
 Mr. J. Fielden  objected to this bill, because it took from the rate-payers the control of the rates. He should support the amendment, and he hoped that if the bill were carried it would be kicked out of the other House.
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, that whatever doubt there might have been of the expediency of introducing this bill, there appeared, after the discussion which had arisen, an absolute necessity for passing it; because it seemed that there existed an uncertainty as to the power of the overseers to obey the guardians and levy a rate. If there were no such power, the whole machinery of the Poor-law Relief Bill would be disarranged. It was the interest of the rate-payers that the guardians should have the money in hand without delay, in order that they might be enabled to purchase in the best market. He thought it desirable that an alteration should be made in the first clause, giving the power of summoning previous to issuing a writ of distress.
 Mr. Hindley  said, it was the wish of the Poor-law Commissioners, and of the guardians, that the present bill should pass; but he had never heard that such was the desire of the rate-payers. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, had intimated that some of those persons who had voted for the Poor-law seemed now to be undecided in their support of that measure. He hoped this was the case with many. He did not wish to return to the
 1050
 Lord J. Russell  thought the guardians had a perfect right to call on this House to pass the bill. In Lambeth, for instance, the guardians, feeling that they were bound by law to support the poor, found themselves resisted by the overseers, and an announcement had been made, he understood, that the overseers themselves would distribute the poor relief fund. He did not conceive that the House would impose duties on the guardians, and refuse them the means of discharging them.
 Captain T. Wood  wished to define more precisely the class of offences which the magistrates were to be authorized to punish summarily.
 Mr. Law  proposed that it should be altered so as to make the period of the magistrates' sitting each day like that of the Central Criminal Court, from nine to five.
 Mr. F. Maule  objected to make it com
 1039
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that the principle involved in the hon. and learned Gentleman's objection would be an argument against several important enactments, now in force, which had been introduced by Sir R. Peel.
 Mr. Law  said, that although be did not presume to put his opinion in competition with that of the right hon Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, upon any subject, yet he was bound to have an opinion of his own. He felt it his duty to state, that the least beneficial portions of the enactments of Sir Robert Peel were, in his opinion, those which related to summary jurisdiction. He would at least guard the exercise of summary jurisdiction by every check in his power. However, seeing the strength of hon. Members on the opposite side of the House, and in that early and inconvenient sitting (the House met at twelve o'clock,) he felt it useless to press his objection to a division.
 Mr. Law  inquired, if it was really intended to give the power to a single constable of executing a warrant in another
 1040 F. Maule:
 The Solicitor-General  would modify the clause by the omission of the words "by the constable or constables to whom the same shall be directed," leaving the clause to run thus—"by any constable or other peace officer of the county, city, or place in which the person named in the summons or warrant may be;" the consequence of which would be, that as long as the warrant was in the hands of the constable to whore it was delivered by the police magistrate here, he could execute it in any part of England. But he could not see why the magistrate's warrant should not be good throughout the country without being endorsed.
 Mr. Law  said, that the provisions of the bill, as it now stood, would not merely apply to those who sought to escape justice in really serious cases, but would apply equally to those who were accused of having committed the most trifling assaults. Even under proceedings for the most insignificant penalties—recoverable for dusting a carpet, for example, at any time or in any place forbidden by law—the individual accused would be liable to all the vexatious severity that the bill would go to inflict. A man might be brought from Carlisle to London on the most trifling charge.
 The Solicitor-General  contended, that under many circumstances it might be necessary, and therefore it was not unfair, that individuals should be brought considerable distances in order to advance the ends of justice. Witnesses were frequently brought great distances.
 Mr. Law  said he would again divide the Committee against it.
 Mr. Law  said, that this clause would maks a very important change in the law, and objected to proceeding with it in so thin a House.
 Mr. F. Maule  thought this clause the most valuable in the bill. If it were postponed, they could not expect a fuller attendance on any other day. A summary jurisdiction was well calculated to prevent crime by preventing the intercourse of the prisoners in gaol after committal, The
 1042
 Mr. Law : What was expected from this clause in abridging the time of imprisonment in cases of petty thieves and others? He might mention that the pickpockets of the metropolis were of two classes—either they were really without means of gaining an honest livelihood, and therefore took to theft as a trade, or they were young persons who were sent out by their parents to pick up as much as possible. These parties ought to be severely punished; and this would best be done, he believed, by means of transportation, for they could hardly be expected ever to do any good in this country. He did not believe that in any case these offenders were brought before a court for their first offence. If the Committee were to affirm the principle of giving discretionary power to magistrates by the former part of this clause, he should propose, that there should be a liberty of appeal from their decision in all cases which involved character and carried infamy along with them; but he would first take the sense of the Committee on the principle. He moved, therefore, to omit the words, "That if any person within the metropolitan district shall steal any chattel, money, or valuable security, or," which would have the effect of limiting the clause to cases of receivers of stolen goods.
 Sir C. Grey  could not vote for the clause without knowing what was to be done with the question of appeal. He thought it would be better to give the right of appeal in all cases. There would be no inconvenience in that course, for no man who was not conscious of innocence, would, after a summary conviction, go before a quarter sessions, where he might incur the risk of an increase of punishment. If a right of appeal were given, he would vote for summary jurisdiction in all cases, but otherwise he could not conscientiously do so. It was well known, that in many instances where parties were tried before one of the judges of Westminster-hall, with all the advantages of a jury, and the aid of counsel, erroneous convictions took place, and the parties had been recalled while undergoing the sentence passed on them.
 Lord
 1043  presented a petition from Luke James Hansard, and another, the printers to the House, with respect to a notice they had received in consequence of printing certain reports by the direction of this House. His Lordship read a letter, dated front Fish-street-hill, the 29th of July, 1839, which had been received by the petitioners from an attorney, and which was to the following effect:—
 "That he (the attorney) was instructed to commence an action against them for printing evidence which had been given before the Committee of the House of Lords, relative to the island of New Zealand, and which evidence contained a false, scandalous, and malicious libel on the character of Mr. Polack; and he, therefore, requested to know the name of their attorney, so as to save them trouble in the business. The petitioners stated, that they had printed this evidence in obedience to the orders of this House, and they, therefore, laid before their hon. House a copy of the letter they received, and humbly prayed the instructions of the House on the matter of this petition, and the course they must pursue in defending this action."
 Mr. Kemble  objected to the clause, thinking that the informers should be allowed to retain the share now awarded to them.
 Sir T. Fremantle  concurred in the necessity of limiting the power of summary jurisdiction in cases of larceny. This frequent adoption of summary jurisdiction went, as he thought, to the abolition of trial by jury.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that concurring, as he did, in all the sentiments of the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, there were a few points upon which he wished to address a very few words on the subject of the present debate. The hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, had stated the difficulties which were in the way of one course of proceeding; but he had entirely overlooked those which stood in the way of the other. What would be the inevitable consequence of the House's stopping short of the course it had adopted, and abstaining from asserting its privileges in the present case? What would they do then? No one, he was sure, would now advise that they should revert to the same proceeding that they had adopted in the case of Stockdale  v. 1093 1094 1095 1096
 Mr. O'Connell  did not think, that the hon. Member who had just sat down could entertain any very serious idea, that this House would ever submit to bring in a bill to assert a privilege which it had already declared to belong to it. This, indeed, would be putting their privileges in jeopardy without any sort of reason; and as to the power which the House now had of asserting its privileges, it was the same with respect to this as to every other privilege. He admitted, that the virtue of their commitment ended at the prorogation; but in a case of open and contumacious resistance to the authority of this House, could not, he would ask, could not the Government recommend her Majesty not to prorogue the Parliament, but to allow it to adjourn from time to time in order to
 1097 a fortiori v. 1098 1099
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he felt justified it taking every opportunity of resisting this bill, for if it had been brought in at an earlier period, he should have had a fair chance of the support of Members at both sides of the House on a question having no relation to party views. All he asked for the other banks was a participation in the power of issuing 1,100,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would confine himself strictly to the new matter which had been introduced that evening, as he was unwilling to trespass longer upon the time of the House than was absolutely necessary. The hon. Member, who bad spoken last, wished to separate the trade of banking from the prerogative of issuing promissory notes. He thought that a most important distinction, and the nearer they approached to one central issue, the nearer would they approach the application of that principle. He did not deny, that there were many inconveniences connected with Joint-stock Banks, but he did not, on that account, undervalue the application of the joint-stock principle. It was, he believed, the safest principle on which banking could be carried on. The cases of abuse which had occurred, so far from shaking the confidence of the public, confirmed the principle of Joint-stock Banks, if they were well regulated, It would be a great misfortune, if
 1103 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  had not asked for the amount, but what was to be done with it now.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would state the amount and the period of payment, and then what was to be done as to the repayment. The 600,000 l. l l. l., l. 1104
 Mr. O'Connell  would address himself to the only argument which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had advanced on this subject, that the trade in banking in Ireland was carried on by branch banks, and therefore, they required a central house of issue in Dublin, and that therefore they could not carry on the trade of issue in Dublin, and also attend to business in these branch banks. Surely if that argument was good as regarded branch banks it was equally valid against the Bank of Ireland. He would divide the House on every stage of the bill.
 Mr. W. Williams  objected to this increase of salary. He was aware that the pretence for it was, that the emoluments had been much greater during the time of war. He admitted it; but they were proportionally less. They had now been at peace twenty-four years, during which time the Court of Admiralty had been presided over by many able lawyers, who had been satisfied with the present amount of emoluments—namely, 3,000 l. . l.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, it was true that the emoluments of the office amounted to about 3,000 l.; l. 1108 minimum l., l., l.,
 Sir J. Graham  expressed his surprise that this bill had been so long delayed, and that it was now unaccompanied by a bill in reference to the ecclesiastical courts. The committee of 1833 having been appointed on a motion of his, he begged to say, that the inquiry extended to the Prerogative Court, the Court of Admiralty, the Court of Arches, the Consistory Court of London, the Consistory Courts generally throughout England and Wales. It was his decided intention, when he left office, to give effect to the recommendations of the committee, and to have introduced simultaneously two bills—one for the regulation of the Admiralty Court, and another for the regulation of the Ecclesiastical Courts. With regard to the question of salary, he begged to call the attention of the House to the evidence of Sir John Nicholl, who recommended that all fees should be paid into the consolidated fund; that the judges should be permanently appointed, and should receive fixed salaries of 3,000 l. l. l.
 The Solicitor-general said,  this subject had already been very fully discussed. The proper test by which to try the question was, not that which was taken by the hon. Member for Coventry, the number of days on which the judge was obliged to hold sittings, but this—that a selection must be made, in order to get a competent person to fill the office; and if the selection was made from among persons who, by their practice, were making from 5,000 l. l. 1109
 Sir J. Graham  wished to ask her Majesty's Government, whether they contemplated bringing forward any measure, founded on the report of the Ecclesiastical Commission, with regard to Ecclesiastical Courts? And was it the intention of the Government, if they carried the present proposition, to propose 4,000 l.
 Lord J. Russell  had no hesitation in answering the first question of the right hon. Baronet. The reports of the commission had by no means been lost sight of. But he understood that it was the opinion of the prelates of the church, that no measure on that subject could be proceeded with satisfactorily, and that they could not give their consent, until a measure was agreed to with respect to church discipline, one subject so much depends on the other. A bill on the subject had been under discussion in that House, but, far from meeting that general support which was expected, it had met with great opposition; and the other day only, a bill had come down to that House, which was very much objected to by many persons who were of high authority on the subject of church discipline. That was the reason why the question of the Ecclesiastical Courts was not pressed, it being understood that the heads of the church would give their decided opposition to such a measure, in the absence of a measure upon church discipline. But it was by no means the intention of the Government to drop all measures upon that subject, The right
 1110 l. l. l. l. l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he came down to the House fully of opinion, that a sum of 4,000 l. 1111
 Mr. Wakley  was not surprised to observe the right hon. Baronet taking her Majesty's Government under his protection. There had been a rumour afloat for some days, that the right hon. Baronet was on the point of setting off for his country residence. He (Mr. Wakley) sincerely wished, that that departure migh be as much expedited as possible, for he thought that Members of that House with whom he was in the habit of acting could manage Ministers much better in the absence of the right hon. Baronet than when he was present. The House had been told by the right hon. Baronet, that if he were in office he should propose to fix the salary of the judge of the Court of Admiralty at only 3,000 l., l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he came down to the House entertaining a strong opinion in favour of a salary of 4,000 l., 1112
 Lord J. Russell,  thought on principle such exclusions were generally bad. They should have some strong peculiar case to justify them in excluding persons of great talent and eminence from the House of Commons. He certainly thought there were those peculiar reasons to justify the exclusion of the Metropolitan Commissioner of Police; but he should say, in general, adopting the proposition to exclude persons tilling the judicial office must tend to weaken the influence and impair the authority of the House of Commons. If they could, without objection, have persons sitting in that House eminent in talent and learning, their speeches must add to the public information, elevate the character of their debates, and even improve the decision they came to on particular questions. He saw no reason, for instance, why the Master of the Rolls should not be a Member of that as well as of the other House of Parliament. The judge of the Court of Admiralty was necessarily conversant with questions of great national importance; and it must be of advantage if he could attend in that House, and give them the assistance of his opinion, Several every eminent men there had been who had filled these situations, and yet had seats in that House. There was Sir William Grant, one of the most distinguished ornaments of Parliament, remarkable for the power and closeness of his reasonings, and for the great weight and authority with which he always argued questions of constitutional law in that House. There was also Lord Stowell, whose judgments had been referred to, and who always spoke with the greatest weight. Looking back to those times, he would ask, had it not been an advantage to the House
 1114
 Sir R. Peel  said, that although it might seem strange to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Finsbury, he intended to act precisely on this question as he had done on the one which the House had just disposed of. On the former question he had voted from the impressions which he had formed before coming down to that House, and he should vote coming his impressions on the present question, and those impressions were in favour of not allowing the Judge of the Admiralty Court to sit in Parliament. When the Metropolitan Police Bill was under consideration, he had voted against the chief officer of police sitting in that House, because he had considered that the duties of that office required the undivided attention of the individual who filled it, and because he thought that that officer ought not to take a prominent part in politics. He had come
 1115 1116
 The Solicitor-general  would ask whether it was the intention to carry out the proposition of the hon. Member for Kilkenny? Were judicial officers generally to be excluded from that House? If they were, then would he direct attention to the Recorder of London, the chief criminal judge of the metropolis, and he would ask, was he to retain his seat? And the right hon. Gentleman the Recorder for Dublin, was he to be still allowed to sit in that House? Were all Recorders to be excluded? Were the Chairmen of Quarter Sessions to be prevented front becoming Members of Parliament? He begged to be informed in what the distinction consisted between the judges he had named and the judge of the Court of Admiralty. On the principle that their duties were incompatible with a seat in that House, the objection was as strong to those individuals as to the judge of the Admiralty Court. Where were they to stop? if all judges were to be excluded,
 1117
 Sir J. Graham  thought the hon. and learned Gentleman had been, indeed, pushed to an extremity, for there was certainly little analogy between Chairmen of Quarter Sessions and the Judge of the Court of Admiralty. He would beg the hon. and learned Gentleman to ask some of his Friends sitting on the Bench with him what course they had followed relative to the Chief Justice of Chester and the Welch Judges on a former occasion. Something also had been said about Masters in Chancery. Did the right hon. Gentleman the present Judge of the Admiralty Court recollect a motion which he had made, and the part he had taken in the discussion on that motion, relative to an Irish Master in Chancery—viz. Mr. Ellis? It was said that only the criminal judges ought to be excluded from that House, but the right hon. and learned Gentleman was himself one of the highest criminal judges in the country, when he sat as Judge at the Admiralty Sessions in the Old Bailey. As regarded recorders, it ought to be recollected that they were popularly elected, whereas the Judge of the Admiralty Court was appointed by the Crown. That was a distinction which was very material in the consideration of this question. Let the House consider what sort of cases came before the Judge of the Admiralty Court. In general they were cases relating to the property of shipowners, and the right hon. Gentleman in that House represented not only a numerous and populous constituency, but a constituency also which comprised the first shipowners in the kingdom. His duty was to adjudicate in matters in which ninny of his constituents were deeply interested, and though he had the most perfect confidence that no partial decision would be given, still such a position as the one he had described was not a position in which a judge ought to be placed. Unless they could show the gravest reasons why a judge should be placed in such a situation, he was clearly of opinion that he
 1118 1119
 Dr. Lushington  would have been reluctant to express any opinion on this subject if the motion bad related to himself alone; but as such was not now the case, he should not hesitate to declare the opinion which he entertained. He had never entertained any doubt on the question; for the judgment which he had formed from the earliest moment that he had had the honour of a seat in Parliament was, that all disqualifications of Members of Parliament ought to be avoided. The only exception that he had ever admitted to that rule was in cases where, from the nature of the duties undertaken, it was impossible for the party undertaking them to discharge the duties of a Member of Parliament without violating those of his office. He thanked his right hon. Friend, the Member for Pembroke, for the allusion which he had made to the motion which he had proposed, and to the bill which he had introduced for disqualifying Mr. Ellis, a Master of Chancery in Ireland, from sitting in that House. He had founded that motion, not on the circumstance of Mr. Ellis being a judge, not on the ground that being a Master of Chancery he ought not to be a Member of Parliament, but on the simple fact that it appealed from papers laid on their tables to be impossible that he should be one of four Masters in Chancery in Ireland, and yet discharge his duties of Member of Parliament here. He recollected well the line of argument which he had taken upon that occasion from the circumstance of the late Mr. Tierney having told him, when he had concluded, that he had not expected such a train of reasons from him. He avowed,
 1120 1121 1122 1123 1124 1125
 Mr. C. Villiers  was opposed to this attempt to disqualify the judge of the Court of Admiralty from sitting in the House of Commons. The judges of Westminster-hall were not excluded from the privileges of legislating for their fellow countrymen; and at present two of them, who went the circuit, the Lord Chief Justice and the Lord Chief Baron, were Members of the House of Lords. He could not refrain from suspecting that there was something of caprice and of personal motive in this attempt to exclude the judge of the Court of Admiralty from that House. Why should the judicial and legislative functions be so completely kept apart? The House of Lords was at once a judicial and a legislative body. He contended that, by the mode of legislation now proposed, we were carrying the principle too far of withdrawing every judge from popular control. Was there no other control save that of the people to which the judges of the land were liable?
 Mr. C. Buller  observed, that the argument against the sitting of judges in that House, applied equally to judges sitting in the other House of Parliament. It was but a few years back that a Peer, who was both a civil and a criminal judge, actually led one of the parties in the House of Lords. He protested against applying the principle to this House alone, when they allowed the House of Lords to be decorated by the highest judicial talent.
 Mr. Hawes  remarked, that if the grounds stated by his right hon. and learned Friend (Dr. Lushington) for voting against exclusion were valid, then the House ought to repeal the clause which they passed the other day incapacitating the chief commissioner of the city police from holding 4 seat in Parliament. He thought that in all cases, legislative ought to be separated from judicial functions.
 Lord J. Russell  considered that the principle of exclusion ought to be applied to all judicial officers, if it was applied to any. He did not think that it ought to be carried so far as to exclude the chairman of the quarter sessions; but if the judge of the Admiralty was to be declared incapable of holding a seat in any future
 1126
 Mr. Williams  said, he should divide the Committee against it.
 Mr. Hume  proposed a new clause, providing that persons who took degrees at the London University should be qualified to practise in the Admiralty Court, in like manner as graduates of the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he was not disposed to object to the principle of the Clause.
 Lord J. Russell,  after what the hon. and learned Gentleman had said, felt it right to state to the House a somewhat extraordinary piece of information which had reached him since he last addressed them. The hon. and learned Gentleman had insisted on the necessity of proceeding without delay against the attorney; without any preliminary step, and he had justified this proposal on the ground that Mr. Polack had authorised this individual to take the step which he had. Now, since he had addressed the House, he had received a letter, purporting to be from Mr. Polack (he was not acquainted with his hand-
 1100 Times Times, 1101
 Lord John Russell : Sir, Before any other business, I rise to move that this House do now proceed to the consideration of the petition of Messrs. Hansard.
 Mr. Freshfield  should feel great difficulty in voting against the observations of the noble Lord, because he thought it right and important, that the House should have a certain power of publication as far as might be essential to the due performance of its functions. He could see no material distinction between this or giving away their publications. He did not think, however, that to treat this in the state in which it now stood, as a question of privileges, would be a safe course; and he would suggest, that the proper course would be to introduce a bill, not a declaratory which bill, the House of Lords might object to, but an enactive bill, confining and establishing this privilege in the House of Commons. This, he thought, was the only way in which the House could establish the privileged nature of their papers as related to their republication, after they quitted the hands of their printer, amongst the community at large.
 Mr. Yates  would oppose the further progress of the bill, being strongly of opinion that the Bank of Ireland had no right or title to the monopoly which it was proposed to perpetuate.
 Mr. T. Attwood  felt called upon to support the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had spoken a great deal about the danger of allowing banks to issue "paper money." That was a phrase which was often used, and certainly the issues of the Bank of England, when made a legal tender, might be properly enough designated as "paper money;" but when any gentleman issued a note, a bond, or a mortgage deed, he must beg to deny that such issue was an issuing of "paper money." It was merely issuing an acknowledgement of a debt; and every individual was allowed by the law of England to get into debt. If so, he wished to know by what policy it was that hon. Members could denounce or deny the right of any man giving an acknowledgment of a debt once contracted; or by what right they would prevent persons from transferring that acknowledgment from one to the other? This was a species of acknowledgment which he would contend the House had no right whatever to interfere with. They never could interfere beneficially in these matters. In assuming these paper acknowledgments to be paper money, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not correct. He denied that a note payable on demand was of less security than a bill of Exchange payable at three months. With respect to the joint-stock banks in this country, he considered them to have produced good effects, and he knew of no reason why they should not be introduced into Dublin. It was not the joint-stock banks, nor the banks of
 1106
 Mr. Gisborne  differed from the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that it would be convenient to extend the privileges of the Bank of Ireland as long as the privileges of the Bank of England continued. He had no doubt that the Bank of England would have its charter renewed. It was only for the Bank to get up a bit of a panic, and then the Chancellor of the Exchequer would come down to the House, and propose the renewal of the charter immediately. He therefore wished to deal with the Bank of Ireland singly. He would rather kill the small viper first, if possible; because he was quite sure that the large serpent would prove too strong for them, when they should begin to combat with it. When a bill was introduced in the month of August to create a monopoly over the heads of his constituents, he thought, almost  per fas aut nefas, 1105
 Sir F. Burdett  could not help feeling the extreme difficulty of the case, but agreed with the noble Lord, that the House ought to possess whatever power was necessary for the proper performance of its functions. The privileges of this House were not intended to be used as powers against other persons, but to shield the House against the exorbitant privileges of the Crown, which might be exercised so as to stop free discussion, and the free agita-
 1083
 Sir R.H. Inglis  said, he came to a different conclusion, and should oppose the resolutions. He could not help expressing his regret, that the noble Lord standing there, not only as a Minister of the Crown, but as the guardian of the law, should have indulged in the expression which had escaped him in reference to the Supreme Court of Judicature in this country; that he should have stated, at a time when the authority of the Crown and the law required more than ordinary support from those who were themselves in authority, the narrow and contracted views since taken by that court of judicature; and the noble Lord said he would not trust a question of the rights and privileges of that House to such authorities [ Cheers! 1084 Times s. d. cheers. 1085 Hear! hear! Attorney-General 1086
 Sir R. Peel  said, that when the question was last under the consideration of the House, a proposal was made that they should take a course which would be tantamount, if resistance were offered, to committing the sheriff for levying the fine that was inflicted by the Court of Queen's Bench. He opposed that course, thinking upon the whole that, having permitted the Attorney General to appear, and having apparently submitted the question to the decision of the Court of Queen's Bench—and the court having decided against them, and the sheriff, who was a mere ministerial officer, being bound to obey the orders of that court—he thought it would give rise, not only to inconvenience and misconception, but also to injustice, if they inflicted punishment on the merely ministerial officer, after they had, by their own voluntary act, become parties to the proceeding. But he had previously said, that he had heard with regret that authority was given to the Attorney General to appear, and further, that the sole ground on which he consented to forbearance on the part of the House, was on account of the peculiar course they had adopted—on account of their having apparently submitted their privileges to the decision of the Court of Queen's Bench; but he then advised, if the case should again occur, that they should take another course; that they should not allow the Attorney General to appear and apply to the Court of Queen's Bench for judgment, but that they should assume to themselves the vindication of their own privileges; and that was a course which appeared to him to have received the sanction of the Court of Queen's Bench, in the decision it had come to in the case of Stockdale  v, 1087 "The Commons of England are not invested with more of power and dignity by their legislative character, than by that which they bear as the grand inquest of the nation. All the privileges that can be required for the energetic discharge of the duties inherent in that high trust are conceded without a murmur or a doubt." 1088 "That it appears to this Committee, that the extension of the colonial possessions of the Crown is a question of public policy, which belongs to the decision of her Majesty's Government; but that it appears to this Committee that support, in whatever way it may be deemed most expedient to afford it, of the exertions which have already beneficially effected the rapid advancement of the religious and social condition of the aborigines of New Zealand, affords the best present hopes of their future progress in civilization." 1089 "How would colonization prevent wars between the natives?—By employing their minds and their bodies; by Europeans settling between them; by Europeans taking up the slaves as farm servants. The slaves of New Zealand are very impertinent; they are given to invention and lies, and those are things which cause more wars between the natives than anything else." "Has the native population decreased? he was asked, and he answered,—It has. Do you account for that chiefly by war?—No, I think the principal cause is infanticide. I have seen many women who have destroyed their children either by abortion, or after their birth, putting them into a basket and throwing them into the sea, after pressing the frontal bones of their heads. Why have they done that?—I have had conversation with them upon it. I saw a girl one day, and knowing she was pregnant, I said 'where is the child?' The answer was, 'Gone.' Gone where—where is it gone to?' I killed it,' was the answer, with the greatest apathy," "Do you think any attempt to unite different tribes in one, and to put a stop to their wars, would meet with success?—That never can be done. Oil and water will not amalgamate. They visit one another?—Yes. During those visits they live on good terms?—Yes; they will absolutely fight against their own party in favour of the people they may reside with. Sometimes their superstitions occasion a great many wars; for example, if a pig passes over a cemetery there is a war immediately. Giving up the pig will not renew former amity; there must be war If a man happen to put his pipe at the top of an old rush-house, which no person would live in, war ensues; and enmities arise from the most trifling things possible. They are children on that subject." 1090 1091 1092 v.
 Mr. Clay  was in favour of the proposition to take the whole system of banking both in Ireland and England under consideration at one and the same time. An inquiry into the concerns of the Bank of England in 1844, or at an earlier period, must necessarily lead to an inquiry into the concerns of the Bank of Ireland. What advantage, then, would hon. Gentlemen gain by opposing the present measure? The monopoly of the Bank of Ireland would go on, the public would lose 23,000 l.
 Lord Howick  thought it utterly immaterial whether Mr. Shaw's letter was genuine or not. Mr. Hansard had received what purported to be an intimation that an action would be brought against him. He had brought under their notice that intimation, and he asked for their direction concerning it. This direction was to take no notice of the intimation; and that if any person proceeded to act thereon, the moment he committed any overt act, the House would consider such a proceeding a contempt, and should visit it as such. He conceived it a very great advantage that they should have an opportunity of showing that when a case did arise, they were determined to act upon their privileges. It appeared to him that there was no reasonable doubt as to Mr. Shaw's letter being genuine; for it was evident that it was Mr. Polack's intention to bring an action against their printer, and that he had actually given instructions for so doing, but had altered his mind when he succeeded against the  Times
 Sir E. Wilmot  said, the hon. Member had confounded two things, which were quite distinct—the one being the regulations of the gaol, and the other how fat those regulations had been applied with severity to these individuals. He was free to admit that no regulations should be tolerated in any prison, save such as were necessary for the safe custody of its
 1190 1191 l. s. l. s.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to express his anxiety to concur in the motion of the noble Lord; and if the noble Lord had thought it necessary to increase the military force much more than he had proposed, he would have supported that proposition. He thought the noble Lord well entitled to that mark of confidence in consequence of the constitutional mode he had pursued towards the meetings of the people, even when some of the speakers had perhaps exceeded the due bounds of law. He had listened to hon. Members on both sides of the House. They had spoken of the necessity of increasing the military force, by reason of the disturbed state of Canada, by reason of the combination of chiefs on our Indian frontier, by reason of the discontent now prevailing in England. But they had left out Ireland. On neither side of the House had Ireland been mentioned. He was proud of Ireland. He had a right to be proud, and to boast that Ireland needed no increase of force. The, troops in that country might be safely diminished; yet hon. Members would recollect that five entire days were occupied this Session in discussing whether they ought to support a Government whose policy had been so successful in Ireland. He was quite of opinion that the middle
 1182 s. s. 1183
 Mr. Villiers  conceived that there were two questions before the House—one whether the present force of the country was inadequate to the due protection of life and property, and whether an addition was required; the other, which arose on the amendment of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, whether the discontent of the people, which had tended to the insecurity of the country; was founded on any real grievance of which they had to complain. Now, after what he had heard stated and admitted in debate with respect to the state of the country, and the duties imposed at present upon the existing force, he could not but admit that the demand for this additional force, under existing circumstances, was justified, and he was quite ready to assent to the almost unanimous approval that had been expressed of the conduct of the noble Secretary for the Home department, in the forbearance he had shown in not seeking, till a real necessity had arisen, any further power from this House; and he congratulated the Government upon receiving the reward of general approbation for having administered the powers with which they were intrusted in that wise and merciful spirit which every friend to liberal government would approve. But, after admitting the wisdom and justice of providing for the security of life and property, throughout the country, he could not shrink from considering whether the very general discontent that prevailed had not some solid ground for it. He was bound to admit that it had; and, while he joined in condemning the insane and wicked projects of many of the people, he could not but think that much blame attached to the Legislature for its conduct towards the people. What had been the lesson that this House had taught the people, and what were the admissions that were constantly made by the
 1184 1185
 Mr. O'Connell  admitted the conduct of the gaoler to be irreproachable. So far as the manner of the management of the bath went, very exaggerated circumstances had, undoubtedly, been stated. But it must not be kept out of sight, that, in the first instance, both Lovett and Collins had been stripped stark-naked in the presence of two gaolers. That was not one of the regulations, though it was the practice of the gaol, and he must say that it was disgraceful to offer untried prisoners, committed for a misdemeanor, such an indignity. Then, again, they were obliged to go into a cold bath. Now, many persons had an utter abhorrence of a cold bath. some liked the luxury of a warm bath, but a cold one might be positively injurious to the health of many men. Of all these regulations the parties had a right to complain, and he hoped that it would induce the magistrates to look into the gaol regulations a little more strictly.
 The Earl of Darlington  said, it appeared to him, that adding sixty men to each regiment, would, in the first place, make the increased force very little available for domestic service, as the regiments would be so dispersed that they would not be able to give the additional military assistance which the Government required. He imagined that the augmentation might have been made at a less expense, and at the same time in a more effective manner, if the same amount of men had been raised from the militia regiments, instead of increasing the line.
 Lord Howick  said, that the noble Lord was entirely mistaken. The noble Lord was mistaken about the reduction of the force about to be recruited. By making the augmentation in the manner in which it was now done, by an addition to the rank and file of the army, whenever it was probable that the circumstances of the country would enable us to reduce, it could be done at once with perfect facility by checking recruiting, because the regular drain in our own army was so great, that the strength of each regiment would be kept down to a certain extent by stopping recruiting for a few months. He might add, that the proposition of the noble Lord would have done nothing for the relief of the regiments engaged on colonial service, but the additional force now raised would be available both for foreign and domestic service.
 Lord John Russell,  instead of moving that the House resolve itself into Committee on the subject of the Birmingham police, wished to withdraw the bill now before the House, for the purpose of introducing another bill, founded on the principle of forming a police for the town of Birmingham on the principle of the metropolitan police, the commissioners to be appointed by the Government. He should propose that this system should exist for a specified time. The same difficulties, too, existed in Manchester as at Birmingham, arising from the
 1194
 Mr. Hume  stated that, if the same difficulties were found to exist in both these towns, and the charters of neither gave power to raise a police-rate, the noble Lord should bring in a general enactment to give these powers. It should be made applicable to all new corporations. He had that morning received a letter frail Birmingham on this subject, and the writer stated that he had read the debate in the House of Commons; and, although it was long since he had ceased to expect any liberal measure from the Government, yet he was astonished that the proposition of the Birmingham Tories should be adopted by the noble Lord, taking the management of the police out of the hands of the town-council, and he was sure that the town-council never would submit or put the seal to a rate for there payment of the advance, but that they would resist such an exaction by every means in their power. All the difficulty had arisen from the noble Lord having granted an erroneous charter to the town. He was satisfied that no Friend to municipal government could sanction such a bill as the noble Lord proposed to substitute for the measure before the House.
 Lord J. Russell  would be very glad if both Birmingham and Manchester could
 1195
 Mr. C. Buller  would oppose the proposition of the noble Lord, having supported the original measure. The noble Lord had not stated any sufficient reason why that should be abandoned, unless it was, as was alleged by his hon. Friend, to oblige the Birmingham Tories, who said, that they would not pay rates for a police force. He thought, that any man who acted upon such a principle, and resisted the payment of a rate for the police, did so from the strongest party feeling. He protested against this measure on every principle of municipal government, as the police should be under the control of the proper local authorities. It would be most objectionable for this country to adopt the French system of police. If this plan was adapted to Birmingham, why not to other places? A different principle however, had been adopted with regard to the rural police, where the appointment of the police was left to the magistrates. It was said, that this was to be only a temporary bill, but he objected to it the more on this account. It generally happened, however, that when the Government got a temporary power of this
 1196
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that as the hon. Gentleman had been pleased to state what should be the law as to the constitution of a police force, he ought not to forget the nature of the measures he had formerly supported on this subject. He did not know how the hon. Member could reconcile his opinion with the vote that he had given for placing the police force in Ireland under the control of the authorities in Dublin. The hon. Gentleman said, that the institutions should be similar in the two countries, and yet he allowed the control of the 8,000 police in Ireland to be taken from the local authorities and placed under the government. If this was a barbarous system, and if Irish institutions should be like English institutions, why did not the hon. Gentleman urge this opinion when the subject of the Irish police was before the House? He had perfectly concurred with the view that the noble Lord had taken of that subject, and had voted against many of his Friends who proposed that the magistracy should have the nomination of the police force. Again, in the Irish Municipal Bill it was proposed that the new corporations should not have the control over the police; and under these circumstances—and the clause was not opposed by the hon. Gentleman—the great and magnificent principle of local government would be violated. The hon. Gentleman also complained of placing the police under the Tory magistrates of Warwickshire, while it was withheld from the Liberal magistrates of Birmingham. He was satisfied that if the controul of the police were for two years vested in an independent authority, the corporation, at the expiration of that period, would find them-
 1197
 Mr. Gisborne  concurred in all that had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard. He objected, in so thin a House, to setting aside so great a principle as that upon which the English corporations were based. He wished to know from the noble Lord, before he gave any vote upon the subject, if the principle which his proposal embodied was intended to be applied to all the other corporate towns as well as Birmingham, or was it merely a special application which he required for that town?
 Lord J. Russell : With respect to such towns as Newcastle-upon-Tyne and Stockport, where the powers of the corporations were not disputed, and had been found efficient for all the purposes for which they were intended, and in which they had a proper police under the corporation—it was not intended to take such steps.
 Mr. P. Thompson  said, that at present it could not be decided who had the legal and proper authority in Manchester and Birmingham, and unless they passed an Act of Parliament to settle it, pending the decision on the subject, which would be an unprecedented proceeding, they had no other course but that which was proposed. The course which they proposed to take, would not by any means impugn the principle of their former vote.
 Mr. M. Philips  said, that the question in dispute was not the validity of the charter, but merely the right of collecting the rates. He saw nothing tyrannical in the proposition of the noble Lord, and he thought that it was fully justified by existing circumstances.
 Viscount Clements  said, that if they established a police of this kind, there would be no longer any occasion for an army, for, to all intents and purposes, the police would be soldiers. He had seen the evils of an armed police in Ireland, and he had no wish to see the same system adopted in this country.
 Mr. Scholefield  said, that the town council of Birmingham had evinced every desire to discharge their duty, so far as they had the means of doing so, and he thought they were the proper parties to have the management of the local police; but as this was only to be a temporary measure, he should throw no obstacle in the way of the proposition of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that if the noble Lord withdrew his bill, the better way would be to abandon all plans on the subject, and to leave the town as it was. He denied that there had been any very great disturbances at Birmingham—and his opinion was, that no disturbance would have taken place if a police force had not been sent down there from London. He entreated the noble Lord either to persevere in his bill, or to leave the town as it was; for the peace would be better preserved by the existing authorities than by the new plan which the noble Lord proposed to adopt.
 Mr. Hume  objected to proceeding farther at that late hour.
 Lord J. Russell  said, at that late period of the Session, it was absolutely necesssary that this bill should be proceeded with without a moment's delay. It might be fair, perhaps, to raise the question as to whether it would be better to have the police of the town of Birmingham under the control of the town council rather than under the control of a commissioner appointed by the Secretary of State? But, at the same time, hon. Gentlemen who were desirous of raising that question, should not forget, that at present the town council had no power to levy rates. That he admitted would be a fair question, and he would not object to its being raised; but he thought that that subject had already been sufficiently debated, and that in point of fact the sense of the House had been taken upon it by the division which had just occurred. With this impression on his mind, what he meant to put to the House was, whether the House generally would not support him in establishing a police for Birmingham, and that, too, by suspending the orders of the day for facilitating the measure through its different stages.
 Mr. Hume  denied that the sense of the House had been taken on the subject, because the only point which had been discussed was, as to whether the other bill should he withdrawn or not. It was now nearly two o'clock, and that was not, he thought, a proper season for the introduction of a bill of this kind. He was con-
 1200
 Lord J. Russell  hoped the House would agree to his motion. Until the doubt respecting the Charter was set at rest, the town would remain in its present predicament, and the question was, could they deem the present police of Birmingham sufficient for the preservation of the peace of that town?
 Mr. Oswald  said, that in his opinion, the course taken by the noble Lord was necessary, and, for his own part, he could not help thinking that the opposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny had the appearance of a factious opposition.
 Captain Boldero  hoped that the statement of the noble Lord was overdrawn. It was true there had been a riot at Birmingham and destruction of property; but what had been the cause of it? It was agreed, that if the magistrates had at the outbreak of the attack exerted their powers sufficiently, they might have suppressed it. They were lax, and the disturbance took place. There had also been a disturbance at Newcastle, but the magistrates there were on the alert, and though there had been a few broken heads, he hoped they would recover. But it had not been shown that there was any combined and organized system; and till that appeared, he did not see why, on that ground, they should be called to vote 5,000 men. There were, however, other reasons, and he should vote for the additional force, because the army at present was not sufficient to perform the ordinary duties of the country. If the House wished to see the army effective, they must grant the additional force asked by the noble Lord.
 Lord F. Egerton  said, he would vote with the noble Lord opposite, because he
 1186
 Lord John Russell,  having moved the order of the day for going into Committee of Supply, said, I shall avail myself of this opportunity to state the reasons which have induced her Majesty's Government, at this late period of the Session, to ask for an increase of the military force. In doing so, I shall speak very generally and shortly of the state of our foreign possessions, so far as they require military force to protect them, and I shall then proceed to consider that which is more immediately connected with my department of the Government; namely, the internal affairs of the country. With respect to our
 1149 1150 1151 1152 1153 1154 1155 1156 1157 1158 1159 1160 1161
 Lord J. Russell,  in reply, said, he was much gratified at the discussion that had taken place. He thought he might assume that, with respect to two points, there was a very general concurrence. In the first place, with respect to the vote to be given for the increase of the military force of the country, there was a general concurrence; and, in the next place, there was a concurrence of opinion that it was not wise, at all events before the present time, to have called for any new law, altering the constitutional safeguards of the subject. He was gratified, because he considered that the opinions of that House so expressed, and the opinions expressed in the course of this debate, by Gentlemen entertaining opinions so widely different upon other occasions, would have very great weight with the country, and would strengthen generally the cause of Government and order. With regard to the amendment that had been moved by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he should much regret if that hon. Gentleman should think it necessary to take the sense of the House on the subject. The opinion of those calling themselves Chartists, and those opinions which were entertained in that House were widely different. The opinion of the Chartists was, that a very great part of the taxation of the country was unnecessary, and that it might be reduced to a very small amount. But in this House, with the exception of a very few indeed, the general opinion was, in the first place, that the public faith ought to be maintained; and, in the second place, that we ought not to have less establishments than were sufficient to maintain the honour and power of the country. If the hon. Gentleman's amendment were carried, those parties who entertained the notion of taxation that he had just referred to, would look for such a sweeping reduction in taxation as would lead to the total abolition of the national debt and the destruction of the establishments of the country. If then these persons saw the hon. Member for Kilkenny and the hon. Member for Bridport, and others who were the staunch advo-
 1187 1188
 Mr. Hawes  contended, that the regulations of Warwick gaol, as applied to prisoners before trial, were illegal, and not warranted by any clause in the Gaol Act. The prisoners, Lovett and Collins, ought not to have been subjected to any indignities, and in being subjected to them had been treated with much illegality. The petitioners had been subjected to avoidable severities, which were not justified-by the Gaol Act, and therefore the Warwickshire magistrates were justly amenable to cen-
 1192
 Mr. Charles Buller  thought it unadvisable to divide the House on Mr. Hume's amendment; though, if it were pressed to a division, he, like Mr. Ward, must support the amendment, It was desirable
 1170 1171 1172
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he could add nothing to what he had already so often said in answer to this case. The petitioner, Rowland Milner, had been convicted of a fraudulent transaction, and had therefore been punished in the manner mentioned. Every subsequent board of admiralty had confirmed that sentence, and he submitted, that this House was not competent to entertain appeals of this kind from a constituted tribunal.
 Mr. Labouchere  said that he could not, with due respect to what he owed to the interests of the public service, give a distinct reply to that question, without prefacing his answer by a short statement, and reminding the House of the position in which Sir J. Colborne had been placed. In November last, when Sir J. Colborne had arrived at Montreal, he found the whole town in such a state, that information was received that there were 3,000 men ready to rise on a certain day, being bound by secret oaths. The surrounding districts were in a state of rebellion; murder and outrage were prevalent every where. The loyal subjects of the British crown were flocking into the town from all quarters in a state of panic; so that it was requisite that he should instantly adopt rigorous measures for restoring the authority of Government, Consequently numerous arrests took place. In Montreal alone 800 persons had been confined. The next question was, how these persons
 1146
 Mr. Labouchere  was sorry that Mr. Viger should have suffered so long an imprisonment, but he believed, under the circumstances, Sir J. Colborne had no other course to pursue.
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that no one, with the exception of the hon. Member for Birmingham, had said anything against the proposal of the noble Lord; but at the same time several hon. Members had stated what they thought necessary to satisfy the people. Amongst the chief causes of the existing dissatisfaction they ought to enumerate the present state of parties. The two great political parties in the state were so nearly balanced that legislation was reduced to something like general anarchy. No good measure proposed by either side of the House was likely to be carried from that cause. Let them take the case of the West Indies—or the condition of the law courts. Everything was at a stand still. Let them even take the police force of the country. If the noble Lord were to propose a measure for the establishment of a constabulary force, what prospect was there of carrying it? See what had been done when the noble Lord proposed an equitable measure for the improvement of the police force of the city of London. The noble Lord had no doubt carried a measure for that purpose, but it was far less efficient than the original bill, and strangely shorn of its beams. Well then, let them look at the municipal corporations in Ireland, or to the state of the emancipated negroes. Or suppose that a general measure for banking was introduced, what prospect was there of carrying any effective and satisfactory legislative measure in regard to any of those numerous complicated and pressing interests, or as to the Corn-laws—the duties on foreign timber—or on sugar and coffee, and so also as to the Poor-laws He believed that this last measure, more than any other, had been the cause of the claims for extended representation, and of the existing discontent among the people; and his apprehension was, that Government having been obliged to bring in a measure for amending the new Poor-law, that in the present state of parties they would not be able to act honestly in that respect, and any government which endeavoured to act honestly on that subject, would be turned out of office. What chance, he asked, was there of being able to legislate well, when the moment that Government introduced any measure really deserving to be entertained, it was immediately made
 1181
 Mr. Leader  rose to call the attention of the House to the petition he had presented some days ago from Lovett and Collins. The hon. Member referred to the various allegations in the petition, contending that the statement of the magistrates, so far from contradicting, confirmed the state-
 1189 s. d. l. l. l.
 Mr. Leader  begged to say one word with respect to the case of Mr. Viger. That Gentleman had been imprisoned for a year, and then offered his liberty on condition of giving security for good behaviour. He declined; and demanded his trial, which was refused, he conceiving himself to be innocent. He begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary
 1147
 Mr. Hume  inquired if it were true that eighty or ninety political offenders in Upper Canada had recently been sentenced to transportation to New South Wales.
 Mr. Hume  said, the opinion just expressed was contrary to that entertained in the United States, by whom Sir John Colborne's conduct was considered cruel, tyrannical, and unjust. He wished to know whether it was true that Mr. Viger, a most respectable gentleman, and member of the Legislative Council, and of very old age, had been kept in prison for two years, and that the Government would neither bring him to trial nor set him free?
 Mr. Hume  rose to move an amendment. The Convention of Delegates was satisfied that they had been misled by the leadership of dangerous men; and they were convinced, that every effort at physical force would retard those reforms which they were so anxious to obtain. The noble Lord had said, the origin of the Chartists' organization arose from the agitation respecting the Poor-laws. He believed, that originally, the most ardent agitators amongst the Chartists were agitators against the Poor-law, and were not Reformers, but, as they themselves stated, Conservatives. He did not think that Messrs. Stephens and Oastler ought to be named along with the Chartists. They had nothing in common with these reformers but their hatred of the Poor-law and of the Factories. That being the case, they now came to the consideration of the claims of the Chartists and Reformers, and he maintained the noble Lord had not done them justice in attributing to them revolutionary and predatory designs. He was sure that the noble Lord's statement was not borne out by any authority ad-
 1163 1164 "Is it consistent with justice that the knowledge requisite to make a man acquainted with his rights and duties should be purposely withheld from him, and then that he should be upbraided and deprived of his rights on the plea of his ignorance? and is it not equally cruel and unjust to suffer human beings to be matured in ignorance and crime, and then to blame and punish them? Let our rulers ask themselves, when they see our prisons filled with victims, our land covered with paupers, and our streets infested with intemperance and prostitution—how much of those terrible evils are occasioned by ignorance, the consequences of their own neglect? and how many of their sanguinary laws might have been spared—how many of their prisons, bride-well's, and hospitals dispensed with—and how many millions of public and private wealth, arrogantly given, and ungraciously received, might not have been better appropriated in diffusing the blessings of education? We are certain that inquiry will convince them of the fact, and lead them to perceive, that knowledge, like the balmy breeze, cheers, and refreshes in its progress; but ignorance, like the tainted air, scourges with disease as it sweeps onward in its desolation. We trust we have, in some degree, succeeded in showing the great importance of education, and the necessity of publicly extending it, not as a charity, but as a right, a right derivable from society itself; as society implies a union for mutual benefit, and consequently to publicly provide for the security and proper training of all its members, which, if it fails to effect, the bond of social obligation is dissolved, and it degenerates into an unholy compact, selfishly seeking its own advantage to the prejudice of the excluded," 1165 1166 "That whilst this House agrees to increase the military force of the kingdom, it is also of opinion that it is proper to accompany that increase with the following declaration:—That it appears, from petitions that have been presented to the House in the present Session, that great dissatisfaction prevails among large masses of the people, by reason of their inadequate representation in the Commons' House of Parliament; to which, and to the other defects they find in our representative system, they attribute the other grievance of which they principally complain—taxation pressing partially on the manufacturing and working classes, and thereby producing privations and sufferings to a great extent: That it is incumbent on this House to apply itself, with the utmost seriousness, and with the least possible delay, to removing the foregoing causes of dissatisfaction on the part of the people; and this House is of opinion that such course is best calculated to preserve the public peace, and to make it unnecessary to add to the military force of the country."
 Mr. Scholefield  was understood to say, that distress existed in many parts of the country to an extreme degree, and they ought to try remedial measures before they had recourse to measures of repression and severity.
 Mr. T. Attwood  seconded the motion. While the noble Lord wished to govern by coercion, he showed no disposition to ameliorate the condition of the people. If the noble Lord had proposed to repeal the New Poor-law, or to redress any other of the grievances that weighed so heavily upon the poor, he would have given the noble Lord some credit for really pitying their miseries. There must be some secret and unexplained reason for the partiality that the noble Lord exhibited towards that bad measure, the New Poor-law, for it could not be denied that that law had been received by the mass of the people with great dislike. He did not know any good it had produced. He had told the Administration of Earl Grey, that that law would have the most fatal consequences. He had asked Lord Althorp, if he was ambitious of the title of Lord Pinch-pauper, and certainly the paupers had been pinched with a vengeance. About 2,000,000 l. l. 1167 1168
 Mr. T. Attwood  begged leave to explain. He had not accused the right hon. Baronet, or any political party, of instigating the rioters at Birmingham. He had attributed the riots to the sinister advice which had been given of resorting to physical force, and not to the Whigs or the Tories, or to Nicholas of Russia. As for what the right hon. Baronet had said about public faith, he (Mr. T. Attwood) was an enemy of public faith, if the means by which 800,000,000 l. 1180 l.
 Sir E. Codrington,  pursuant to notice, called the attention of the House to the petition of Mr. Rowland Milner, presented
 1162
 Mr. Ward  said, this motion was coupled with opinions in which he did not concur. The hon. Member for Birmingham had connected it with the Poor-law; but he was bound to say, that he concurred most entirely in the principle of that bill, and he believed it to be a salutary measure even for the class whose interests the hon. Member advocated; and he did not concur with the hon. Member for Kilkenny on the subject of universal suffrage. The question was, whether, by having given to Government a proof of confidence and approbation (as he wished his vote to be), they should couple it with any assertion of those principles of reform which he had always advocated? With reference to the situation in which the noble Lord was placed, and the difficulties he bad to contend with in this movement in the country, he could not help expressing his sense of the moderation, temper, forbearance, and firmness evinced by the noble Lord, who had declared at the beginning of the movement of the Chartists that coercion
 1169
 Sir R. Peel  inquired whether the noble Lord thought it probable
 1148
 Sir R. Peel  could not agree with the hon. Gentleman who had seconded the motion that he was under any obligation to vote for the amendment of the hon. Member of Kilkenny. He protested against the doctrine which was thus laid
 1173 1174 1175 1176 T. Attwood 1177 Laughter. 1178 "Hear," and laughter. 1179
 Sir Robert Peel : Would the noble Lord inform the House how the question stood with respect to the disputed boundary question—he meant generally. He understood a commission had been appointed for a survey of the disputed territory. Had the American government appointed any corresponding commission, and acting in concert with the British Government?
 Viscount Palmerston  said, the American government had proposed a commission to survey the whole of the disputed territory, to which her Majesty's Government had consented, with some modifications, which that Government had also agreed to. The Government thought the commission could not act with satisfaction without a previous convention between the two countries, and accordingly, in spring, he had sent a draught of a convention to our minister at Washington, for the purpose of its being laid before the American government. It was laid before them, but as yet they had returned no answer, they being under the necessity of consulting the state of Maine upon the question. By the constitution of the United States, it was also necessary that the convention should be ratified by Congress, which could not be obtained till the end of the present year, and therefore her Majesty's Government thought that in that state of things it would be extremely desirable to take advantage of the present summer, for the purpose of acquiring more correct information as to the nature of the country in dispute, than they had yet possessed; and had sent out two persons acting entirely under the orders of, and responsible to the British Government, solely for the purpose of procuring local and topographical information for the use of the Government, thinking that if the matter should lead to any greater length of negotiation, it would be of essential importance that they should have a correct knowledge of the conformation of the country in dispute.
 Viscount Palmerston  was quite aware of the great importance of the matter to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded, and it certainly was very natural that Parliament should wish to be put in possession of any information that could be properly communicated. At the same time he was afraid, that in the present state of those affairs, it would not be in the power of the Government, consistently with that practice, the expediency of which was felt by all, to make any communication, because this was not a matter in which the English Government were alone concerned. It was a matter which affected the interests of all Europe, and the five great powers of Europe, feeling that it deeply interested them, had entered into communications with each other. Of course, those communications being pending, it would be improper to communicate details until some result was arrived at. At the same time, he had the satisfaction of assuring the House that as far as those communications which had taken place between her Majesty's Government and the government of France, Austria, Prussia, and Russia had gone, there was no difference of opinion whatever, but all were animated by the same desire to maintain peace, and all were convinced that the peace of Europe could only be maintained as regarded those affairs by upholding the independence and integrity of the Turkish empire.
 Mr. C. Buller  concurred with the Government in thinking that it was expedient and prudent to renew this bill from year to year, but he thought it would be still wiser and much more expedient to give the people some chance, at no very distant period, of exercising that self-control in the affairs of the Government without which civilization could never be efficiently advanced, nor any thing like rational freedom established. He felt assured, that the least prospect of this control could not fail to occasion the greatest satisfaction among all classes of the colonists. The Act now proposed to be renewed, was a measure which originally had been introduced in 1827. It was no matter of surprise that the circumstance of the Executive Council not being of popular choice should occasion loud and angry complaints, and should give rise to feelings of more bitterness in the Australian colonies than were to be found in any other possessions of the British Crown. The revenue of these colonies was produced from the largest amount of direct taxation with which any country on the face of the earth had ever been burthened. It was thought that the English people enjoyed exclusively the privilege of being the heaviest-taxed people who had ever pos-
 1240 l., l. l. l. s. l. l. l, s. 1241 l. l., l. l. l. l., 1242 1243
 Mr. Labouchere  conceived that no practical result could follow from the discussion in which his hon. Friend had embarked, even if the House were to come to an opinion upon the several topics it involved. Although there was little of inaccuracy in the statements which his hon. Friend had made, yet they presented so fallacious a picture to the House from the circumstance of his having omitted to advert to other matters intimately connected with the subject, that he (Mr. Labouchere) felt it necessary in some degree to supply the deficiency. His hon. Friend had begun by stating, that he hoped the day was not very distant when he should see institutions of a liberal character, and more consonant to the feelings of Englishmen, substituted for the present system of government in New South Wales. He could assure his hon. Friend, that he was far from differing from the general principles he had expressed upon that subject. He agreed with him, that whatever might be the difficulty of introducing free institutions into a colony, there was much disadvantage in requiring Englishmen to live under a government in the conduct and control of which they had no share. He had always entertained the greatest doubt upon the propriety of making those colonies convict colonies—of spreading a seed so bad upon a soil where the produce was sure to be so great. He had always regarded that policy as open to the greatest objection, and he was glad to be able to state, that the Government had taken decided steps to put a stop to the system. His noble Friend, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, who, he regretted to say, was unable to attend the House that day, had, in conjunction with the Colonial-office, taken steps to put a stop to the exportation of convicts to New South Wales. This year only 2,000, being but half the usual number, would be sent to that colony, the greater portion of whom would not be long
 1244 1245 1246
 Mr. Ward  said, that since he had given notice of his motion upon this subject, he had seen a Treasury minute, which, instead of appropriating the proceeds of land sales to emigration, distinctly declared, that until the difference which existed between the ordinary revenue and the expenditure in New South Wales should be completely covered by the colonial resources, no further portion of those proceeds should be employed in emigration. The right hon. Gentleman had not pushed that part of the question to its full extent. He stated that 10,000 emigrants had gone out last year to New South Wales, and that a similar number would go out this year under the auspices of the Government. But how was that to be reconciled with this Treasury minute, and the different appropriation of the land-fund for which the right hon. Gentleman claimed credit. He said it was to be done out of the colonial resources. But he had shown, that in those resources there was a great deficit. That being the case he (Mr. Ward) did not see how it was to be done without the interposition of Parliament. He implored his right hon. Friend not to encourage a spirit of jobbing and lavish expenditure in the colony, by throwing the whole proceeds of land-sales into a revenue over which they had no control. If he did so, he might depend upon seeing, as the result, the employment of a number of unnecessary officers, the building of new streets, and a lavish outlay for such purposes, which, while it might create a temporary popularity, would have the effect of retarding the permanent government of the colony itself. He contended, that it was unfair to deduct from the amount of land-sales the expences of the system of colonial police. The necessity for that force entirely arose from our sending so many convicts into New South Wales; and he did not think the colony should be charged with the expense of its maintenance.
 Viscount Howick  vindicated the application of the land-fund to the support of the police force. No doubt, the necessity for that force arose, as had been observed by
 1247
 Mr. F. Maule  defended the clause, as in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee.
 Mr. Arthur Young,  who was a resident in France at the outbreak of the revolution, which shook that country to atoms, and scattered its nobility and gentry to
 1254 "It is impossible to justify the excesses of the people on their taking up arms; they were certainly guilty of cruelties; it is idle to deny the facts, for they have been proved too clearly to admit of doubt. But is it really the people to whom we are to impute the whole—or to their oppressors, who had kept them so long in a state of bondage? He who chooses to be served by slaves, and by ill-treated slaves, must know that he holds both his property and his life by a tenure far different from those who prefer the service of well-treated freemen; and he who dines to the music of groaning sufferers, must not, in the moment of insurrection, complain that his daughters are ravished and then destroyed, and that his sons' throats are cut. When such evils happen, they surely are more imputable to the tyranny than to the cruelty of the servant. The analogy holds with the French peasants. The murder of a seigneur (a lord), or a country seat in flames, is recorded in every newspaper; the rank of the person who suffers attracts notice; but where do we find the registers of the seigneur's oppressions of his peasantry, and his exactions of feudal services from those whose children were dying around them for want of bread? Where do we find the minutes that assigned these starving wretches to some vile pettifogger, to be fleeced by impositions and mockery of justice in the seigneur's courts (petty courts of justice?) Who gives us the awards of the  intendant délégués, 1255 1256 "That the taxes imposed on the necessaries of life in this country render them so dear, that the working people cannot command a sufficiency to supply their daily wants; that the taxes imposed on raw material are an obstruction to the productive industry of the country; and that the inability of the people to purchase a sufficiency of the things which their labour would produce, acts injuriously upon those who employ the people, and compels them, from want of a market at remunerating prices, to limit the employment of many, and to refuse employment altogether to others, who are anxious to earn their bread by the labour of their hands, and who, from being denied employment, are compelled to accept relief from the parish in any way that they can obtain it, or starve. That such a state of things is detrimental to the productive classes, and dangerous to all other classes. That, according to the return ordered to be printed by this House on the 10th day of June last, the taxes raised by the Excise and Customs on the following articles amounted, in the year ending the 5th day of January, 1839, to the sum of 17,614,543 l. l. l. l. l. l. l, l. l l l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Williams  seconded the motion. He felt great regret that his hon. Friend had not brought forward a motion of this important nature at an earlier period of the Session. His hon. Friend had given a most lamentable description of the state of the productive classes; but he was fully borne out in his tale of woe by their real condition. It had often been his lot to offer all the opposition in his power to acts of extravagance committed. by the government, but he felt convinced that this House would never stop in its career of profuse expenditure, that it would never show any regard for economising the revenues of the country, until the taxes were fairly borne by themselves. In the present state of taxation the poorer and middle classes were burdened much more heavily than the rich. Hence arose the indifference of Members of that house to every proposition for reducing the taxation of the country. He held in his hand a list of eleven articles, the amount arising to the revenue from which was 30,000,000 l. l. l., l., l. 1258
 Mr. C. Wood  thought, that after the two long discussions, and the two divisions that had taken place in a much fuller House than now, on this question, and which had been carried by a majority of two to one in favour of the larger sum, it was not necessary that he should trouble the house with any observations.
 Mr. C. Wood  must again say, that after the full discussion this question had undergone, it was unnecessary for him to say a word upon it.
 Mr. Finch  would support the hon. Member's motion as it did not apply to Dr. Lushington.
 Lord Hotham  said that the proviso of the hon. Member of Kilkenny made no personal application to Dr. Lushington, and he saw no reason why the report of the committee on this subject should not be acted upon.
 Captain Pechell  opposed the proviso on principle, having voted against the hon. Member for Southwark on a similar question.
 Mr. Wallace  should vote for the proviso from sheer and positive principle.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was certainly purely a question of principle. There was now no apprehension of the abuse of the prerogative of the Crown; he was therefore exceedingly happy to vote againt the motion of his hon. Friend.
 Mr. O'Connell  moved to add a clause, the object of which was to put the grocers in Ireland in the same condition with respect to the sale of Spirits as they were before the passing of the 6th and 7th of William 4th. By that Act grocers in Ireland were prevented from retailing spirits. The operation of the prohibition had been found most injurious, and had caused a great derangement of capital. Besides this, it had thrown the trade in the sale of spirits into the hands of an inferior and less respectable class of persons. The clause which he had to propose was limited in its operation to those grocers who were in business at the time of the passing of the act to which he had alluded.
 Colonel Percival  regretted that Government had not given the Irish Members an opportunity of expressing an opinion on this vote, by bringing forward the estimates at an earlier period, and he believed that the delay was purposely made; but at that late period of the Session it was useless to take a division against the vote, although if his friends chose to divide they should have his vote.
 Viscount  Cole would certainly divide the House upon the question.
 Colonel Perceval  had opposed the bill of last year, and would certainly vote against the clause of the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 Mr. Finch  would regret to sec the day when the House should refuse to come to a vote for the support of the education of the Catholic clergy. As a Dissenter he was sure he spoke the language of Dissenters, when he said that they were quite willing to accord to Catholics the right of worshipping their Maker after their own mode, and after their own creed, and if they did this it was but right to grant to a large majority of the Irish nation the means of educating their clergy. If the vote should come forward in another Session he trusted it would be recollected that a portion of the money of all classes, as well in England as in Ireland, was appropriated to professors in the English Universities, whilst a great part of the people of this country was shut out from those Universities by the test established by them.
 Mr. Shaw  objected to the clause. From the experience which he had in his judicial capacity, he thought it was most important to prevent grocers selling drams of spirits in their shops.
 Mr. Fielden  rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, and he had been induced to take this course, in consequence of the determination which this House had thought it right, in its wisdom, to come to, not to allow any further extension of the suffrage, and those other reforms prayed for in the National Petition. One of two things, it appeared to him, it was imperative on the House to do—either to give the labouring people a voice in this House, which they now had not; or to redress their sufferings, and to relieve them from that poverty of which they had so long and so justly complained. Be had had many opportunities, since he became a Member of that House, of inquiring into the condition of the labouring people, and had diligently attended to the investigation of their circumstances in the Committees on which he had sat. That condition, as it had been proved over and over again in his presence, it was his duty to make known to the House. He spent two years in inquiring into the state of the unfortunate handloom weavers, and he had made statements to the House previous to this inquiry, that a very great proportion of these honest and industrious citizens had not more than 2½ d. 1248 l. s. d s. d. d. d. 1249 s. d. d. 1250 s. l. 1251 l., s. d. s. d. l. s. d. s. d. l. l. l. 1252 l., "The nominal price of day-labour is at present no more than four times, or at most, five times, what it was in 1514; but the price of corn is seven times, and of flesh and raiment
 1253 "The horrid practice of murdering their new-born infants was become every day more frequent in the provinces. It was the effect of distress, and the distress was principally occasioned by the intolerable burden of taxes, and by the vexatious, as well as cruel, persecutions of the officers of the revenue against the insolvent debtors. The less opulent or less industrious part of mankind, instead of rejoicing at an increase of family, deemed it an act of paternal tenderness to release the children from the impending miseries of a life which they themselves were unable to support."
 Mr. Hume  had presented a most numerously signed petition from Kilkenny, praying for such an alteration in the law as was now proposed, and he would therefore support the introduction of the clause.
 Mr. Sheil  had two petitions to present, praying that the grocers might be placed in the same situation in Ireland as in Scotland, and would vote for the clause.
 Mr. Dillon Browne  felt sorry that he had not a different opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the motion which he rose to bring forward, but the fact was, that it was grounded upon a petition which was not received by the House, and which was presented so late in the Session that he could find no certain opportunity except the present for bringing the matter forward. He felt that he was about to give expressions to sentiments which would place him in no very desirable position. He felt he should be opposed on the opposite side of the House, because hon. Gentlemen might suppose that the object of his motion was to maintain the stability of the Catholic Church by civil enactments, when he only desired to assert its religious independence, and he did not expect a more favourable reception from the varied sections that compose the ministerial side of the House. Her Majesty's Government would oppose him, some because they were as hostile to the progress of the Catholic faith as the most orthodox hon. Gentlemen opposite, though they expressed themselves in different terms; and others because his proposition was opposed to the present system of national education in Ireland, of which the present Government were sponsors. He should be opposed also by another section at this side of the House, the English and Irish Protestant movement party. Deriving their belief from private interpretation, they had in common no definite principles of faith, and consequently thought it was impossible (and under the circumstances he agreed with them), to adopt any religious instruction agreeable to all. Others who wished to unite with secular instruction certain moral instruction, based upon a vague, abstract, indefinite principle,
 1260 1261 "For party give up what is due to mankind." 1262 1263 * 1264 1265 "That the admission of Protestants and Roman Catholics into the same schools for the purpose of literary instruction, may, under existing circumstances, be allowed, provided sufficient care be taken to protect the religion of Roman Catholic children, and to furnish them with adequate means of instruction. That in order to secure sufficient protection to the religion of Roman Catholic children, under such a system of education, we deem it necessary that the master of each school in which the majority of the pupils profess the Roman Catholic faith, be a Roman Catholic; and that in schools in which the Roman Catholic children form only a minority, a permanent Roman Catholic assistant be employed, and that such master and assistant be appointed upon the recommendation, or with the express approval, of the Roman Catholic Bishop of the diocese in which they are to be employed; and further, that they, or either of them, be removed upon the representation of such Bishop. The same rule to be observed for the appointment or dismissal of mistresses and assistants in female schools. That in conformity with the principle of protecting the religion of Roman Catholic children, the books intended for their particular instruction in religion shall be selected or approved of by the Roman Catholic Prelates, and that no book or tract for common instruction in literature, shall be introduced into any school in which Roman Catholic children are educated, which book or tract may be objected to on religious grounds by the Roman Catholic Bishop of the diocese in which such school is established. That appointed as we have been by Divine Providence to watch over and preserve the Catholic faith in Ireland; and, responsible as we are to God for the souls of our Hocks, we will, in our respective dioceses, withhold our concurrence and support from any system of education which will not fully accord with the principles expressed in the foregoing resolutions." 1266 "We will not disapprove of the Board, however it may lay down principles discordant; for as its regulations depend upon civil enactments, we are not ecclesiastically responsible for it; but it will be our duty to see that practically it does not operate incompatibly with the authority of our Church. We do not wish to destroy it, because we wish to make use of it; but we shall only make use of it in strict accordance with our own principles. We will assert, primarily, our own authority, and stand in a position as if it never existed. In our clerical capacities, it is not necessary we should be cognizant of its existence. We will resolve that the children of our Church shall be educated in our faith after that fashion which their Bishops will approve of. We will receive pecuniary assistance if, under the circumstances, it is offered to us, we care not from what quarter it comes, or from what Board, however constituted, as to its fundamental principles, provided it does not interfere with us in its practical operations." 1267 "The chief objections to the existing system, as far as I can recollect, are the following:—1st. A combined system of education on the basis of religion, and yet excluding religious peculiarities, must either exclude the Catholic religion altogether, or give offence to some party. 2nd. Government interference is bad. 3rd. Structure of the Board is vicious and sectarian, because a Board, in which there are only three Catholics, does not represent in due proportion the Catholic population; because, as is notorious from the errors of the scripture lessons and fifth book of lessons, it affords not a sufficient security for our faith; because the composition of these books was entrusted to Carlisle, a Presbyterian; and because the structure of that Board is a formal recognition of Protestant ascendancy in a Catholic country and national concern. 4th. The system of district inspectors has been objected to. 5th. Training school also objectionable, 6th, Scripture lessons have been
 1268 "Primo avulso non deficit alter Aureus et simili frondescit virga metallo." 1269 "That, to satisfy the conscientious scruples of a large proportion of the Protestant, as well as Roman Catholic population of Ireland,
 1270
 Mr. Redington  said, that the reason why the inquiry into this grant was not brought forward at an earlier period, did not rest with hon. Members on that (the Ministerial) side of the House; but a want of determination on the part of hon. Members opposite, one of whom, the noble Lord, the Member for Durham, having had a notice on the book for a long time.
 Viscount Castlereagh  believed that the opposition to this vote was daily increasing and he could no longer be a silent instru-
 1271
 Viscount Morpeth  said that as this was an annual skirmish be would not prolong the discussion, but he must say that his only objection to the vote was that it was too scanty. He did not deny that, after they had left Maynooth, the Catholic clergy, like every other class of religious teachers, did take part in politics, but politics did not form part of the system of instruction; on the contrary, he believed that they were carefully kept out of the system.
 Mr. Villiers  did not rise to question the title of the noble Lord to the gratitude of the country, for directing his attention to the commercial interests of this country, for, when he considered how those interests had been attended to by his predecessors, and the care which was bestowed upon them by this House, he was ready to allow that they ought to be grateful for what had fallen from the noble Lord that evening; for though this country was indebted for its name to commerce, it appeared as if the Members of the Legislature were ashamed of the subject; and he was indeed diverted to see, when he ventured very often to offend the taste of the House by broaching such matters, how ungenteel and how unfashionable such topics appeared—how Members shunned them, and how beside the business for which they were deputed there, such matters were thought. He was, however, glad to hear that the noble Lord took interest in such questions. He was glad to learn that he
 1393 1394
 Lord G. Somerset  was friendly to the bill, and in the county of Monmouth had made arrangements for the meeting of the Quarter Sessions, so as to suit the passing of the measure; but he would prefer that the rates should be collected in parishes or townships, so as to adapt the expense to the actual wants of districts. Some parishes did not require any new constabulary force, and it would be hard to make them pay for the wants of others.
 Lord John Russell  would have been glad, if he had found it consistent with his duty to postpone this bill till another Session, but the state of the country would not justify that course. The noble Lord, the Member for Monmouthshire, thinks it would be preferable to have the rates collected from parishes rather than by divisions of counties. Some words might be requisite to define what was meant by a division. But he was not of opinion that the bill should authorise a separate parochial rate. He feared that such a course would establish too many independent bodies, and destroy the uniformity which was one great object of the bill.
 Mr. George Palmer  objected to the bill, because it was not what it professed to be. It was stated to be a bill for establishing police courts in the metropolis, but instead of that it was to establish those courts in any place within fifteen miles of the metropolis, and to supersede the unpaid magistracy of the country. There was one clause which completely showed the "cloven foot" on the part of her Majesty's Government—he meant the 16th Clause. [The  Solicitor-General:
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, the hon. Member, the Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department had committed a gross breach of faith in persisting on the third reading of this bill. He moved an amendment on the 10th Clause, that the salaries of the magistrates be reduced from 1,200 l.
 Lord G. Somerset  thought the alterations did not go far enough, and one clause contradicted the other. The bill proposed to transfer jurisdiction in cases of filiation from the Quarter Sessions to the Petty Sessions. In that object he perfectly agreed, but he could not approve of a bill, proposing that all the clauses in the Poor-law Act should be applicable to this bill. The Poor-law Act was one of extreme difficulty of construction, and if the judges were sometimes at a loss to solve the points that arose from it, surely it was objectionable to hand them over to justices. A specific clause should declare the law. He thought, too, that parties accused of being the putative fathers should have the power of appeal on entering into recognizances for full costs. He did not think it fair that the characters of individuals should be concluded by the decision of two magistrates. This was a bill not to give protection to the mother; but to prevent parishes from being injured. He wanted to know, therefore, why the liability of the putative father was only to begin after the birth of the child. The mother might be taken into the workhouse two months before the birth, totally unfit to work, and chargeable on the parish. He,
 1388
 The Solicitor-General  did not think that any of the three points suggested by the noble Lord would be prejudiced by going into committee. As recorder of a burgh, he himself had experienced considerable difficulty in construing the present law. He was aware there were several conflicting decisions, and, before the report was brought up, he should endeavour to frame clauses in order to remedy the defect.
 The Attorney-Genreal  rose to bring forward a motion to revise the standing order of last Session requiring a deposit of 10 l.
 Mr. Hawes  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for a copy of the tariff, agreed upon by the
 1389 "The customs are a source of great oppression, and the trade being chiefly carried on by Georgians and the native Christians (Armenians), they are often much bullied; their resource in such cases is to declare themselves Russian subjects, and claim Russian protection, which is omnipotent here. It is of great use to the Russian minister and agents, as bringing them innumerable bribes, and to Russian policy as giving them innumerable subjects of complaint against the Persian government, and which they are ready at all times to bring forward, and to back any demand they may choose to make, while, at the same time, no more effectual means could be found of displaying their power and extending their influence all over Asia."
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that the meet-
 1395
 Mr. Warburton  thought that the conduct of this country with regard to the admission of French brandy might be a key to the conduct of the French government with regard to the restrictions imposed on British commerce.
 Mr. John A. Smith  begged to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether he had received any direct intelligence from China, in respect to the recent events which were reported to have taken place there.
 Mr. Hume  felt, that the noble Lord was entitled to the thanks of the House and the country, for the pains he had taken in extending the commercial relations of the country. He hoped the time was coming when the restrictions on the importation of corn, timber, and other matters into this country would be removed.
 Mr. T. Attwood  said, that this country was differently situated from all other countries as to free trade, in consequence of our taxes and debt. He protested against adopting the notion, that in buying from foreign nations we were increasing our power or our wealth. There is one subject of my recent lucubrations, continued the hon. Member, which will be anything but gratifying to the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and on which I must ask him a few questions. I was, indeed, truly glad to hear the noble Lord express this evening such interest in, and such desire to extend, the commercial relations of this country,—but if the noble Lord is really earnest, how is it be has allowed British trade to be ex-
 1396 1397
 Mr. Thornely  thought that this discussion, if it went forth, would give great satisfaction to the public. He alluded more particularly to the speeches of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State, and the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade. From what he knew of the constituents of the hon. Member for Bir-
 1398
 Mr. Ewart  said, whatever might be the difference of opinion among reformers as to the conduct of the ministry, as long as they maintained peace and free trade, they would have a strong hold on the support of all reasonable men.
 Viscount Palmerston  felt that the House would feel obliged to his hon. Friend for having drawn the attention of the House to the subject before the close of the Session. Much had been done, but much yet remained to accomplish. He could assure the House, that this was a point that occupied the incessant attention of every Member of the Government, and that no opportunity was lost of extending the sphere of the foreign commerce of the country. With regard to the extension of the Turkish treaty, it would have been unusual and by no means expedient to make a treaty with a Sovereign, and to exclude a portion of the dominions of that Sovereign from the treaty. A doubt might arise whether it was desirable that England should claim the application of the treaty to Moldavia and Wallachia, because it was doubtful if the same abuses existed in those principalities as in the rest of the Turkish dominions, and that question had not yet been determined on. As to the right of England to do so, there could be no doubt. It was wrong to suppose that any new stipulations were necessary to secure the free navigation of the Danube, as that river was clearly included in the provisions of the Treaty of Vienna. Therefore, any new stipulations would weaken instead of strengthen those rights. He was not aware that the commerce of England stood in need of any protection in the Black Sea which it did not enjoy at present. A great and increasing trade with Persia, until the occurrence of the late differences, had been carried on in the Black Sea, under the protection of the British flag. An attempt had been made to hold a conference of European nations on the subject of quarantine. Many persons were of opinion that quarantine was useless, and if these opinions were correct, this was an additional reason why the European nations should re-consider the subject. It was the duty of the Government to open new channels for the commerce of the country; with this view a person had been sent to the Commercial League now sitting at Berlin, with a view
 1392
 Viscount Palmerston  said, he had received to-day a dispatch from the British superintendent, Captain Elliot, dated Macao, 23rd March, at which time he had received a printed copy of the edicts, published by the Chinese authorities, relative to the suppression of the opium trade, stating that he was then ready to proceed to Canton for the purpose of communicating with the Chinese authorities upon the subject. Since that date he had received no intelligence whatever; but he had put into his hands this morning, by a gentleman connected with India, an extract from a Sincapore paper, containing intellingence up to the 6th of April, the nature of which he had n o doubt was known to the hon. Gentleman; but his information was not of a more recent date than the 23rd of March, from Macao.
 Sir C. Grey  begged to know in what they consisted?
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that the most important one was this. The bill, as sent to the Lords, gave a general power to the
 2
 Mr. Hume  regretted, that the House were about by this bill to transfer to an irresponsible power the right of taxing the whole community. Previously to carrying into operation such a measure as this, they ought to have constituted boards of rate payers, to be elected by, and to be responsible to the rate-papers, for the conduct of this business. He objected to proceeding with so important a bill at this period of the Session. It was a bill which required a full attendance, and ought to have had even a call of the House. He submitted, too, that in the principle of it, they were at fault, and he thought the noble Lord ought to consider well how he went about to violate the great principle that the people should only be taxed by their representative. For the purpose of postponing the measure to another Session, he moved, that the further consideration of it be taken that day three months.
 Mr. T. Attwood  cordially seconded the motion. His objection was to the principle of centralization adopted in this measure. He did not wish to see the police appointed by the county magistrates.
 Lord J Russell  could not conceive how the objections of hon. Gentleman applied to this bill. Some hon. Members declared that if a board were appointed by the rate-payers, and responsible to them, they should not object to the bill placing the control of the police in such body, and the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Attwood) objected to placing the appointment of them in the hands of the county magistrates, and complained of the centralising character of the bill. But it was clear that whether they placed the appointment in a board elected by the rate-payers, or in the county magistrates,
 7
 Mr. Warburton  suggested, that the noble Lord should make this bill—which was only passed without debate at present on account of the emergencies of the country—only a bill of two years' duration.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that if they limited the duration of the bill to two years, the magistrates could only make engagements for two years, and if they could only make your engagements for two years, the most valuable men would not take employment under them.
 Sir E. Wilmot  objected to that part of the bill which related to the appointment of one chief constable in each county, and in the committee he would make a proposal to get rid of that difficulty.
 Mr. T. Attwood  was confident that it was a most improvident bill, and he much feared that it would produce much evil of a serious nature in the town of Birmingham. He must complain of the change made from the first bill, which the people of Birmingham would not object to, to an arbitrary measure which threw the whole power into the hands of the Secretary for the Home Department, and made, too, at the suggestion of the general opponents of the Government. He did not see why the men of Birmingham of the present day should not be governed as were their grandfathers. He did hope that the Government would take warning in time, and not persevere in this bill, or any similar measure, for he had no doubt that it would produce great mischief to the peace and content of the country, and might endanger the security of the Throne itself. He was sure, that a police force would do no good under the control of the Home Secretary, but it would be good and. use-
 9
 Mr. Scholefield , in seconding the motion said, there was a strong disposition on the part of the council to resist this measure. He was sure the people of Birmingham would not be satisfied with it, as it was meant to keep them down, and all that could be charged against the town was a riot which might have happened in any town. On a former evening, so convinced was he of the necessity of some police in the town of Birmingham, that he had voted for the first reading of this bill. He would now, however, oppose it, because, on better consideration, he was convinced, it would do much mischief.
 Sir E. Wilmot  had voted for the bill, but not on the ground that the corporation of Birmingham were not competent to manage their own affairs. It was well known that difficulties had arisen as to the power of the corporation to raise the rates, and until the question was settled in a court of law, it became necessary to apply to Government for an advance of money for local purposes; the Government consented to give the money, but annexed its own conditions to the advance. If the Government meant to retain the power in its own hands permanently, he would oppose the bill. If the hon. Members for Birmingham would even now say on the part of the corporation, that they would raise the money without any application to Government, he would vote against the bill.
 Mr. Wakley  thought, that the circumstances connected with this and the former bill were very humiliating to the Liberals in that House. By the former, the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, proposed to rest the nomination of the police in the local authority, which the charter had created, and that intention was cheered by the Liberals, but in ten days from that time, the noble Lord came down to the House and proposed quite a different arrangement, by which the power would be vested in the Government, and for that he was also cheered by the same Liberals. He did not blame the noble Lord, who, he had no doubt, acted with perfect sincerity, and for what he thought the best—but what was he to say to the Liberals for their conduct? They ought, in his opinion, to be called "sycophants," instead of "Li-
 10
 Mr. Hume  said, that there appeared to be in this bill great injustice and inconsistency. It was proposed to give the guardians a power of taking the property of the overseers but how were the overseers to be relieved? If there was no relief, could it be expected that any man in England would become an overseer? The second clause gave the guardians the power of appointing the collector of the rates, yet the overseers were to be punished if the collector did not do his duty. Unless the noble Lord gave some satisfactory explanation on these points, he should feel bound to vote against the further progress of the bill.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that it was his intention to propose a modification of the clause as it originally stood, and to give the guardians the power of making a complaint before a magistrate in the first instance, and then, after cause was shown, a distress might issue, if the magistrates should be of opinion that sufficient reason had not been assigned to the contrary. If the guardians were to be compelled to provide for the relief of the poor, they ought to have money for that purpose; that was all that he wanted to effect by this bill.
 The Attorney-general  observed, that as the law now stood there was extreme difficulty in obtaining the requisite funds. The guardians had to make an order on
 12 mandamus mandamus mandamus again mandamus toties quoties
 Mr. Grimsditch  was surprised to hear the hon. and learned Attorney-general say that there was no remedy for enforcing the orders of the guardians except by  mandamus
 Mr. Wakley  said, that the object of the bill was to make orders lawful which at present were unlawful, and he thought it would be most unwise to render edicts legal which were not yet seen. The bill was another specimen of Liberalism: it was an extraordinary specimen of Whiggish subtlety and sagacity. It was now said, that guardians were not to have the power of directing the magistrates to issue warrants of distress; but that the magistrates should have the power of summoning the parties and deciding according to the merits of the case, But who were the magistrates The guardians, the  ex-officio 13
 Mr. Ewart  thought the remedy proposed by the noble Lord as respected the first clause met the difficulty which before existed; but with respect to the second clause, he thought the proposition so objectionable, that though he should not oppose the motion for going into committee, he should move its rejection in committee.
 The Attorney-General  wished to offer a few observations in explanation of this
 14 15
 Mr. Ewart  rose to move, that this clause be omitted. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said, that even were this bill passed, the collectors would still be in the hands of the rate payers, and responsible to them, but he could not altogether agree in that opinion. There was a great difference between an election by the body of electors, and an election by another body, interposed between the persons who ought to elect, and the person elected. It this clause were agreed to, the guardians would be interposed between the collector and the rate-payers, and in such a case there was the greatest danger that the wishes and interests of the rate payers would not be fairly represented and attended to. Was this bill in conformity with the spirit of the Poor-law Amendment Act? No, for it went to alter materially that Act, and those who were opposed to this measure, contended, that it ought not to interfere with the spirit of the existing law—that it ought only to be declaratory, and not contrary to the principle and spirit of the Poor-law Amendment Act. Now, the House would recollect that Lord Althorp had expressly stated what he considered to be the principle of that Act, on moving its introduction. He had distinctly said, that the administrative power alone was to be placed in the hands of the commissioners, and that taxation and collection were to rest with the guardians and overseers. He would ask the House, then, whether this clause were not completely at variance with the principle of the Poor-law Amendment Act as laid down by Lord Althorp? He would ask, also, whether it were not at variance with the existing law? The commissioners had issued orders for the appointment of collectors, and their authority to do so had been questioned, and the Court of Queen's Bench had decided, that those orders were at variance with the law as it stood. But by these clauses those orders were to be declared legal, so that the bill was at nuance with the principle of the Poor-
 16
 Mr. H. Hinde  did not object to the powers given by the clause, and his objection was to ex post facto legislation.
 Mr. Grimsditch  objected to this clause, because the commissioners had no power by the Poor-law Amendment Act to do what this law sanctioned and rendered legal. They had no power to issue the orders which the clause made law, and he could not think it was wise to legalize orders of which the House knew nothing. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said, that a collector ought to be appointed for a whole union; but how was that possible? The union to which he belonged contained a population of between 70,000 and 80,000 inhabitants, and how was it possible that one collector could collect the whole of the rates in a union so extensive? The fact was, that this measure was applicable entirely to some little unions in London, but it was not at all adapted to the country unions. He should certainly vote for the omission of the clause.
 Mr. Wakley : After the explanation which had been given by the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Attorney-general, and seeing that the commissioners would gain nothing by the provisions of the bill, should not object to the clause.
 Mr. G. Palmer  said, this measure had not been demanded by the parishes for whose benefit it was professedly intended. It would deprive the ratepayers of all control over the parochial funds; they would likewise have no control over the appointment of their own officers. He should vote against the clause.
 Mr. Hume  at first was undoubtedly opposed to the clause, but as be now understood that the noble Lord did not design to alter the present law, and that the Court of Queen's Bench had put an erroneous interpretation upon the law in respect to the collection of rates, and further, that the object of this clause was to carry on the Act until next year, and to prevent litigation, he should support it.
 Lord J. Russell  begged to say a few words in reference to the orders of the Poor-law commissioners, the advantage of which had been much called in question. The hon. Member had chiefly dwelt upon
 17 "As far as my experience has gone, no officers could have succeeded better than those who have been appointed at Wigan, and in proof of the advantages of the change, it may be stated, that there are at present four assistant-commissioners and three assistants at 100 l. l. l.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he was desirous of making; an observation upon the subject of a resolution which it appeared by the votes of the House of Lords had been come to that morning; by their Lordships. The resolution was this:—
 "That it is the duty of the Executive Government, when considering any case of conviction had before any of the Queen's judges with a view of remitting or commuting the sentence, to apply for information to the judge or judges who tried the case, and to afford such judge or judges an opportunity to give their opinion on such case, unless circumstances should exist which render any such application impossible or only possible with an inconvenient delay; but that it is not necessary that the Executive Government should be bound to follow the advice, if any, tendered by such judge or judges." 3
 Lord J. Russell  said, that before he proceeded to call the attention of the House to the Lords' amendments to this bill generally, he wished lo have the opinion of the Chair upon one of them in particular. The bill, as it had passed the Commons, contained clauses giving certain powers which were hitherto exercised by the grand juries in Ireland to the municipal bodies instituted or reformed by the bill. It appeared that the House of Lords had struck out those clauses, whereby in effect those powers hitherto exercised by grand juries, which were taxing powers, and powers of levying money, were continued to those grand juries as they had by law hitherto exercised them. That was exactly the nature and effect of the Lords' amendment; and without offering any opinion upon the question, he should be glad to hear the opinion of the Chair before he proceeded to propose any further steps.
 Lord. J. Russell  could conceive, that there were certain cases in which the rejection of money clauses by the House of Lords, might not make it necessary for them to insist upon those clauses. But as the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair had stated, and as he (Lord J. Russell) also thought, the difficulty in this case was, that the fact of the rejection of the clause by the Lords, did not entirely get rid of the power of taxation, but did in fact, and in substance, transfer that power to another body. That he conceived, to be the point which created a difference between this case, and that alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, who was of opinion, that the course to be pursued was to disagree to the amendments altogether. Now, he conceived, that they might perfectly well disagree with these amendments, and do it on the ground of privilege. It was quite a common practice for the House to disagree to any amendments of the House of Lords, and to state the grounds of their disagreement to the Lords, subjoining, at the same time, that such and such other amendments they had rejected as being an interference with their privileges.
 6
 Lord J. Russell  begged further to know, whether in the opinion of the Chair, that amendment would be at once fatal to the bill, or whether it was an amendment to which they could disagree, and ask the other House to consent to their disagreement thereon?
 The Speaker  replied, that he did not consider it fatal to the bill, but such an amendment as the House of Commons might disagree to, and signify their intention accordingly to the House of Lords, in the hope, that their Lordships might wave their amendment, and allow the clauses to stand as before.
 The Speaker  said, that if he correctly understood the question, it had reference to those clauses in the bill which transferred certain powers of taxation held under the existing law, by the grand juries of the several counties in Ireland, to the newly created councils in the proposed municipal boroughs, the Lords' amendment upon which he did not think the House of Commons could agree to. It had always been most jealous of any interference on the part of the other House in cases of this description. It did not
 4
 Mr. Shaw  apprehended, that in point of form they were not prohibited from going into the consideration of the question upon its own merits; and if they might consider the question on its merits, that at once disposed of the question of privilege. He entirely concurred in the principle laid down by the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, that the House of Lords could not, without infringing upon their privileges, change the name of a trustee in a turnpike bill; but he submitted, that that did not apply to the present case. The House of Lords had not in any degree amended or altered the clauses in question; they had only omitted them. In doing so, they were acting in perfect consistency with the privileges of the Commons. There was no doubt, that the House of Lords could throw out a money bill altogether, although they could not in any way alter it. Again, the House of Lords might amend a bill involving the imposition of taxes, but could not alter the money clauses of that bill; and further, they could not, if those
 5
 Mr. O'Connell  would support the motion of the learned Attorney-general, the success of which would be of great use to Ireland. It might perhaps be a calumny for the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, to say that the people of Edinburgh were poor, but it was known to him, that the people of Dublin were so. Many important schemes were stopped in Ireland, in consequence of this standing order requiring a deposit of 10 percent. The House had thought fit to refuse to the people of Ireland, a loan to enable them to carry on their railroads; they were thrown on their own means, and so long as the standing orders continued, he saw no prospect of the-being able to make any progress. He thought five per cent., was a very substantial deposit. The argument of the President of the Board of Trade, that the payments might be frittered down to 1 l. l.
 Mr. H. Hinde  said, the House had now two years' experience of these standing orders, and the result had been that no new line of railroad had been since brought under the consideration of the House. The Stone and Rugby was not a new line, but the continuation of a line which had received the sanction of the House. When the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, spoke of the small sums which might be paid by each individual, he forgot the large aggregate amount. The capital required for the Newcastle and Edinburgh Railway, was
 93 l. l.
 Mr. Darby  rose to move again the clause which he had proposed last week in the Committee. He trusted the House would pardon him for a few moments, while he called their attention to the circumstances under which this clause was now proposed. A clause that the guardian should have power to give relief in certain cases, was carried by a considerable majority. He had then intended to introduce the clause which he now proposed, but the noble Lord stated, that if that clause was carried he would probably abandon his bill; yet he admitted, that as the instruction had been carried by a majority, he
 98 99
 Mr. Burroughes , in seconding the motion, said, he considered the withdrawal of all power to grant relief unless it was accompanied by the confinement of a whole family in the workhouse, pressed with peculiar hardship upon those able-bodied labourers who had large families in consequence of marriage previous to the passing of the Poor-law Amendment Act. It had been said, that if the motion of the hon. Member for East Sussex was carried, it would bear hard upon those who had married only a short time after the new Poor-law came into operation. Grantee that it might do so, it might appear to
 100 ex-post facto 101 "Generally, I believe that Boards of Guardians administer relief with care, and that discretion may be entrusted to them." "The discretion must be entrusted somewhere, and I do not think the discretion can be entrusted anywhere better than to a large body not representing individual interests, but representing general interests, and practically acquainted with the habits and wants of the poorer classes, and which body also comprises persons of great intelligence of the upper classes."
 Mr. C. B. Hamilton  trusted he should not be accused of presumption, having so lately had the honour of taking his seat in that House, if he ventured to say a very few words in support of the vote he intended to give in favour of the clause proposed by the hon. Member for East Sussex. His opinions having been recorded in favour of the New Poor-law in the 2nd volume of the Commissioners' report, he was anxious to state why he considered the clause now under consideration an improvement. The noble Lord
 102
 Lord J. Russell , considering the full discussion which this clause had formerly undergone, would advert as little as possible, to the arguments which had then been urged in its defence, and which had been fully answered. He retained all the objections which he had formerly urged against this clause. He considered it to be at variance with every other clause in the Poor-law Act. It was also a renewal of the worst part of the old system—viz.,
 103 s. s.
 Lord G. Somerset  expressed his intention to support the clause. So far was he from being willing to extend the authority
 104
 Lord Eliot  said, that though he could not concur in the sweeping reprobation which his noble Friend had just cast upon the Poor-law Commissioners, he could have wished, that they had left in the boards of guardians, under the New Poor-law, a greater discretionary power, than that which they now allowed them to exercise. He could not give his support to the clause now proposed, as it would lead to great discontent in every parish, by
 105
 Sir R. Price  expressed himself hostile to the clause, as the power of administering out-door relief under the old law, had been the main cause of the poor being defrauded so long, of the proper amount of wages to which they were entitled. The present law, he considered calculated to accomplish great good, if it were impartially carried into effect. But if hon. Members persevered in first breaking down one of its principles by a side wind, and in then assailing another in the same manner, all the efficiency of it would be lost, and they might as well get rid of it altogether. He hoped the case of widows would be favourably considered, and that the whole subject would engage the attention of the House early next Session.
 Mr. Wakley  regretted to hear it proposed to delay for another year, giving that relief to the necessitous poor, which they so much required. Was that the boasted humanity of the gentlemen of England? He was astonished that a reformed Parliament could be found to listen to such a proposal with patience. That course was one that had a tendency to degrade the House, and to strip it of all the respect which it ought to receive from the people of the country. Would the gentry of England, because the Poor-law Amendment Act was a measure that relieved their estates in some degree from burdens to which they were liable, put their feet upon the necks of the poor, and say to them, "Our position is comfortable enough, we care not for your miseries?" He did trust that the House would take the subject into consideration now. He had often heard of the great principle of the Poor-law Amendment Act, but had never heard any one define what it was. Would the noble Lord, the Secretary of State, say that its principle was the denial of relief to the able-bodied man in all cases whatever? If that were not the principle, what else could be its principle but the starvation of the poor? He hoped that hon. Members would this night give direct votes upon the motion of the hon. Member for Sussex, and that there would be no weaving of votes. On a former night, the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, bad agreed, to
 106
 Viscount Howick  said, the House must now be prepared to declare whether they were to revert to the old practice of giving relief in aid of wages. If they were to revert to that fatal and mischievous principal, he would rather see the House do so boldly and at once, than do it by successive steps, deluding the public as to their real intentions. If they had recourse to the mistaken principle of giving relief wherever they saw distress, they
 107 108
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that the nolbe Lord had not alluded to some parts of the Act, from which it appeared, that the clause was not so much opposed to the principles of the Poor-law Act, as to subject the hon. Member who moved it, to the charge of attempting to overthrow the principle of the Act by means of a side wind. For instance, the bastardy clause was made to have reference only to those children who were born since the passing of the Act. His hon. Friend had followed the exact principle of this part of the Act, and proposed the same relaxation of the law, in the cases he particularized as the Government, and the other supporters of the Act, had introduced in the bastardy clause with respect to those who had illegitimate children since the passing of the Act. He did not think, therefore, that his hon. Friend was liable to the imputation which had been thrown out against him. The clause he thought essentially necessary, and he should, I he re fore, sup-
 109
 Mr. T. Attwood  professed his disbelief of the real existence of the evils which it was the fashion to attribute to the Act of the 43rd of Elizabeth, nor did he believe, that under the old law, the relief administered was in any place permanently excessive. He believed, that the cases of over relief, were to those of under relief, in the proportion of one to 100. With respect to the present state of the labouring population, he believed, that the Poor-law had nothing to do with anything, that there might be, that appeared favourable in their position. When it was stated, that the new law had contributed to raise the condition of the labouring poor, it ought to be remembered, that during the whole of the five years in which the Poor-law had been in operation, no fewer than 400,000 of the poor had found employment on the railways. Instead of benefitting, the Poor-law was calculated, in his opinion, to coerce and grind the poor; and it was also his opinion, that had it not been for the accidental circumstance of the great demand for labour, which had arisen from the formation of so many railroads, the wages of labour in England, would have been, by this, thrown down, under the operation of the Poor-law, to the Irish level. This he had prophesied five years ago. The noble Lord (Howick) seemed very hostile to mingling relief with wages; he (Mr. Attwood) was not hostile to that at all. When a labourer's wages were too small, he believed, that the labourer had a perfectly constitutional right to ask of the public, that his wages should be raised. That a labourer should do this, was, in his opinion, perfectly just, perfectly right, and perfectly politic too. This, he thought, was the greatest and most valuable of an Englishman's rights; the right of living fairly and honestly by his own labour. He thought, too, that no sort of property was so sacred as property in labour. He never would cease to protest against any attempt, in this House or the Other; to grind down the poor below the
 110
 Mr. Bramston , believing that the Act was calculated to enable the labourer to hold up his head before his employer, and ask a fair price for his labour, was determined to support the present system. He thought, too, that it would be impossible to support the proposition contained in this clause without going into the whole subject; and, above all, he could not see upon what principle they were to distinguish between persons who were married in 1834, and those who were married in 1835. He should, therefore, vote against the motion.
 Lord J. Russell  said, the Poor-law Commissioners made an exception between the case of a widow in the first six months of her widowhood. He submitted that the clause was not required, and he should therefore oppose it.
 Mr. Hindley  was much surprised at the opposition of the noble Lord to the clause; it was not in keeping with what he had given the House to understand on this point.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose pursuant to notice to propose a resolution that no female paupers above the age of sixty-five years should be put to hard labour. He had been informed, that in Holborn (we understood) workhouse, there were forty female paupers kept at hard work, one of the age of eighty, several of the age of seventy-five, and the majority about sixty-five, and these poor women worked eleven hours a-day picking wool. The allowance was 4 d. 113 "Whereas it is expedient to relax the working days of aged paupers, so as to distress them as little as possible; be it therefore enacted, that no guardians or other persons having the management of workhouses in England and Wales shall have power or authority to set to work or labour any female paupers whose age shall exceed sixty-five years.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, the allegations on which this proposition was founded were denied. He did not think it right that they should legislate on a statement until it was found to be correct.
 Mr. T. Attwood  thought the clause ought to be passed, whether it were contradicted or not.
 Lord G. Somerset  wished to call the attention of the noble Lord to one or two facts in respect to which the Poor-law Bill might be much improved. His first proposition related to women pregnant with bastard children, and likely to become chargeable to the parish. There ought to be some power in the guardians to look after the putative father before her delivery, and to insure his appearance by recognizances, instead of waiting till the parish was actually chargeable. He believed his right hon. Friend the Member for Pembroke had suggested to the noble Lord, the other night, some clause that would carry this intention into effect; he was therefore fortified by that authority. The other point was that of appeals. If the putative father was brought before the petty sessions, great inconvenience might be suffered if there was no appeal. He had no objection to the most stringent recognizance; but he wished that there should be some relief afforded to persons aggrieved by the decision of the petty sessions. Persons holding respectable situations in life—dissenting ministers, for example—sometimes had the misfortune of having this charge cast upon them, and the justices, without the assistance of learned counsel, might determine the question in a manner which would most seriously affect the character of the party.
 114
 Sir C. Grey  said, the absence of the right of appeal was a departure from the original principle of the Poor-law. In cases so peculiar, the want of an appeal added materially to the hardships suffered to be laid upon the male labouring population by this Act. There had been many cases of females fixing the charge on innocent persons.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that, with regard to the first proposition of the noble Lord, it did not seem to him advisable to adopt it, although it had been fortified by the high authority of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Pembroke. The fault attributed to the old Poor-law was, that it gave too great a facility to women to obtain a relief in such cases, and operated as an encouragement to them to continue in vice. He thought the suggestion of the noble Lord would restore some of the old abuses, which it was the object of Parliament to correct. In preparing an amendment of this clause of the Poor-law Amendment Act, he had some difficulty with regard to the second proposition of the noble Lord. No doubt there were some cases in which false charges operated with great injury against the persons so charged. At the same time they should endeavour to avoid making the law worse instead of better, by giving two trials, one before the petty sessions and another before the quarter sessions. Moreover, the proof under the new law, was not precisely similar to that under the old law, when the oath of the woman was sufficient; whereas, under the new law, corroborative evidence was required to satisfy the magistrates at the petty sessions. Still there was a difficulty, and not feeling confident as to the operation of the law, he was disposed, in deference to the opinions of several Members, to adopt the opinion that it was better, on the whole, to allow an appeal to the quarter sessions, and he should not object to the introduction of a clause, on the third reading of the bill, giving that appeal. But at the same time, not satisfied that this appeal might not be made vexatious, and expensive, and a source of scandal, if such should be the consequence, he should hold himself at liberty to take away the appeal, or substitute some other measure for it.
 Mr. Pryme  rejoiced to hear that the noble Lord intended to agree to this suggestion. He was aware of the indelicacy of these investigations before the Quarter-sessions; but such cases demanded more inquiry than could be given to them before the Petty-sessions.—Report agreed to.
 Sir H. Verney  proposed the omission of the words "subject to such orders as he may receive from the justices in quarter or special session assembled," in order to substitute the following—"subject to the approval of two justices."
 Mr. Hume  thought it advisable, as far as possible, to restrict the responsibility for the conduct of the force to the chief constable; it would, therefore, be advisable to omit all reference to the justices.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the county rates would be doubled by this measure, and it ought not, therefore, to pass without Parliament reserving the right to revise and re-consider it, with a view to give the counties at large the right of electing boards for the appointment and superintendence of this force. If it were once passed permanently, it would be difficult at any future time to alter the measure, and make the taxing body responsible.
 Lord J. Russell  had stated the other evening, the reasons which led him to think that it would not be satisfactory to make the bill temporary. One reason was, that under a temporary measure, it would not be possible to get the best persons to apply for situations, if they were told that the occupation might cease at the end of two years. He did not deny the proposition that taxation and representation ought to go together; but if they had said of the metropolitan police, when it was first established, that taxation and representation must go together, and that it should only last two years, the force would have been extinguished before the end of the time by its own unpopularity. He did not expect, at first, any great degree of popularity for this measure, but ultimately it would be felt, he was convinced, that it was quite consistent with the liberty of the subject that pickpockets and rioters should be taken up. If the bill were made temporary, every candidate, at every fresh election, would say that he would take every opportunity, if returned, to put an end to the  gens d'armerie
 Mr. T. Attwood  said, this bill went to establish a tyranny, and did it in a weak way. If the noble Lord had said plainly, it is intended to establish an infernal French system of  gens d'armerie
 Mr. D' Israeli  should support the limitation of the bill to the year 1841. It was an incontestable fact, that for the last twenty years there had been a gradual diminution of crime in this country. Yet it was attempted to revolutionize the police under these circumstances. The decrease of enormous crimes had been particularly great within the last fourteen years. This was in favour of the old system of constabulary. In fact, there was as little crime in the rural districts of England as in any country in the world. In the rural districts, the two great classes of offences were poaching and wood cutting; but it was very seldom that a phea-
 117 emeule
 Lord Worsley  said, there was great increase of crime in his county (Lincolnshire); but the very great disinclination to prosecute made the amount of crime not known. During the last three or four years highway robberies had been committed in his county. If the bill were only to be permitted to operate for two years, there would be a general disinclination on the part of the majority of the magistrates to bring it into force.
 Mr. Hawes  objected to giving the Boards of Guardians by this bill greater power than was formerly possessed by the overseers. He hoped, also, that the noble Lord would give the opportunity of appeal to the quarter sessions.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he had met the first proposition of the hon. Member by amendments made in committee; and to the hon Member's second proposal he had a decided objection.
 Lord J. Russell  said, the bill was certainly not intended to apply to such parishes, but he thought the proviso unnecessary, and he feared that it would, as worded by the hon. Member, extend too far.
 Sir T. D. Acland  approved of the principle of this bill, and hoped that the House would not object to dispense with its usual forms in reference to it. He congratulated the noble Lord on not allowing both himself and the friends of emancipation generally to be disappointed by the fate of his former bill.
 Mr. R. Stewart  said, the question was one of great importance to Scotland and Ireland, and he should support the motion of his learned Friend the Attorney-general. The right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, had endeavoured, with great tact, to stir up the pride of Scotland by an allusion to their poverty. The "pride and poverty" of Scotland was proverbial. In this case, however, he would sink the pride, and freely admit the poverty, because, unless the motion were carried, he feared that every intended line of railway in Scotland would be stopped.
 94
 Dr. Lushington  said, the vast sacrifices which this country had incurred since 1815, amounting at least to 1,000,000 l. l. 129 Shipping Gazette 130
 Lord G. Somerset  objected to such a proceeding being taken at this late period of the Session, when three-fourths of the Members had left town. He thought, the present rule had not produced any practical inconvenience, and he should, therefore, vote against the alteration.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  must oppose a motion which at this period of the Session called upon the House to alter a standing order that had been in force for some time, and which had been adopted on the suggestion of a select committee which had minutely investigated the subject with great attention, and who had come to an almost unanimous opinion on the subject. His learned Friend had really brought forward no good grounds to induce the House to agree to his motion. Although his learned Friend had made some vague allusions to useful undertakings having been prevented by the present standing order, yet the only instance he had adduced was that of an intended railroad from Newcastle to Edinburgh. His learned Friend knew better than he could pretend to do of the situation and circumstances of his constituents, but he thought it was rather too much for his learned Friend to come down to that House, and say in effect that the inhabitants of such a city as the metropolis of Scotland were so poor, so miserable, and so badly off, that they were unable to pay up 10 per cent, on the sum required for the construction of an undertaking from which they expected so much benefit; and that for such a reason the standing orders of that House should be repealed. It would have been a better, at least a plainer course for his learned Friend to have asked the House to repeal the standing order in regard to Edinburgh alone. That would have been intelligible. But instead of that, his learned Friend proposed, that for such a reason they should repeal the standing order in regard to all cases. His learned Friend said, that the security of five per cent., to be paid before the bill was brought in, and five per cent, before the work was in operation, would be a sufficient check on gambling speculations. He denied that it would be so; and whoever would read the evidence of the select committee of 1836 and 1837, moved for by the hon. Member for Bridport, would be of the same opinion, and see the mischief which the present standing order had checked. Shares were frequently as low as 20 l. l. 92
 Mr. Warburton : The committee of 1837 had investigated two cases in particular. In one of these, they found that thirty-three parties had each paid 5 s. l. s. l. l. s. bonâfide
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that if the House agreed to this motion, they would be encouraging in railroads, that system of gambling, which they had put a stop to in lotteries. There would be no prospect of getting the remaining ninety-five per cent. paid up by the promoters of these speculations, if they could get their bill on paying five per cent, deposit. Speculators would bring forward schemes on such terms as would give them a right to gamble, with the intention of getting other persons to take up the concern which they themselves never intended to carry into effect. The interests of the public required that this standing order should not be disturbed.
 Mr. Macaulay  said, it appeared to him that, with regard to the general principle, they were all agreed that it was inexpedient to place obstructions in the way of  bonâ fide l. s. l. s. l.
 Mr. Thornely  was cognizant of many frauds with respect to lists submitted to the committees of the House; but he had always doubted whether it was necessary to inflict the penalty of 10 per cent, on parties coming to Parliament for railway bills. He held in his hand a list of thirty-four railways in operation, twenty-four of which were at a discount, and if the shares were sold at the market price there would be a loss on them of three millions.
 Captain Pechell  supported this measure. Lord Brougham had done him the honour to send him in the last Session of Parliament a pamphlet, in which his Lordship was pleased to assert, that rather than take measures to abolish the Slave-trade, we had quailed before the might of Portugal, and had not dared to encounter the empire of Brazil. How, then, did it happen that the noble Lord was not present in his place to advocate the defence of humanity, when her Majesty's Ministers were preparing to show both Portugal and Brazil that they would be trifled with no longer? The noble Lord on that occasion had spoken of tongues cleaving to the roof of the mouth. To what fatality was it owing that his tongue, once so voluble, then so immoveable, had cleaved to the roof of his mouth in mute inglorious silence, and had forgotten all its usual stratagems and tricks of fence?
 The Attorney-General : As to the argument that it was too late in the Session, this was the very time for revising the standing orders, that those likely to engage in such projects next Session might know the intention of Parliament, and not be subject to regulations made at the commencement of a Session, and which must necessarily have an  ex post facto l. l. s. l. l.
 The Attorney-General , in requesting the attention of the House to the motion of which he had given notice, for a revision of the standing orders requiring a deposit of 10 per cent, on railroads, would only occupy the attention of the House for a very short time. It would be unnecessary for him to say anything on the great advantages which the public had received from railroad communication; they had been generally felt and experienced. On Tuesday he had conducted a prosecution of great importance at the assizes in the town of Warwick, and the same evening, at six o'clock, he was in his place in that House, ready to bring on his motion, if he had not been prevented by the House having been very unfairly counted out by some persons who wanted to get rid of this motion by a side wind. He did not, however, see that he had much cause to regret the course that these persons had thought fit to pursue, because he had now a more numerous attendance, and, therefore, he had reason to expect a more numerous majority than otherwise would have supported him in this question. That question was what amount of deposit should be paid by the promoters before bills of the second class for the promotion of railroads were brought in? It had been most unfairly stated out of doors that his object was to get rid of a deposit altogether. He had no such object in view. He was quite aware of the necessity that some deposit should be made, and was as much opposed to gambling and bubble speculations as any hon. Member in the House. He admitted, therefore, the necessity that a deposit should be made. But the question for consideration was, what should the deposit be? He was aware that a
 90 totidem verbis. bonâ fide bonâ fide
 Mr. Easthope  understood, from what had taken place in the debate, that a contemplated line of railroad from Newcastle to Edinburgh had been retarded by the standing orders, which required a deposit of 10 per cent, before the bill could be introduced to that House, and which could not be paid, owing to the poverty of the people of Scotland. The hon. Member for Honiton admitted, that the poverty of the people of Scotland was so well known and complete, that that was the reason why that railway could not be proceeded with. If that were true, he begged to ask how it was, that a large proportion of the capital embarked in railroads in this country was invested by Scotchmen, and that some of their largest subscribers were inhabitants of Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen, and the other great towns of Scotland? The fact was, that this railroad, if forwarded at present, must be forwarded by gamblers, who would possess no ultimate interest in the concern. The Scotch were a very rich and a very wary people. They did not embark their money without considering the probability of a return; and if they could get other people to make the first investment they would be willing to permit them, knowing, that although the undertaking might not be worth 100 per cent., it might be worth 70 per cent. If the House agreed to this motion, railroads would again fall into the hands of gamblers. A committee would again be called for by the hon. Member for Bridport, and the Attorney-general would find it his duty to prosecute those concerned. The hon. and learned Member for the city of Dublin said he should support the motion, because he thought the present rule prevented the progress of railways in Ireland. He put it to the knowledge and sagacity of his hon. and learned Friend, whether the carrying of the motion would answer his expectations. Persons of capital, in any country, desirous of embarking their money in such undertakings, would look to the practical result, and not be guided by the amount of deposits they might have to make, but by their expectation of an advantageous return. If the concern showed a fair prospect of success, there would be no want of subscribers to provide the necessary capital; and if not, it was not consonant with the character of the House to encourage such schemes; and he was sure it was not for the benefit of the country that they should be proceeded with.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, the whole question here was about one railroad between Edinburgh and Newcastle. It was said that the alteration would benefit Ireland, but the hon. and learned Gentleman would not have brought the measure forward, except in his zeal for the interests of Scotland, and the city of Edinburgh in particular. It was said that the notices had already been given. If so, they would be legislating  ex post facto.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  rose upon this occasion, lest the whole responsibility, or, he should rather say, the whole glory of this measure, should be left to those statesmen to whom he had long been politically opposed. He hoped that the predictions of his right
 131 Shipping Gazette 132 Bellum ostendite, pacem habebitis.
 Viscount Palmerston : I rise in pursuance of notice which I gave, to move for leave to bring in a bill for the better suppression of the Slave-trade. The House are aware, I presume, of the grounds and circumstances which render it necessary for me to make this motion. We know, by the committee appointed to search the Lords' Journals, that the bill which was passed for the purpose of suppressing the Slave-trade by this House, and which was sent up to the House of Lords, has not passed that House. Undoubtedly, in the first instance, that fact would have led this House to imagine, that there was a difference of opinion between the two Houses of Parliament upon the great, interesting, and important subject to which the bill so sent up related. If that difference of opinion had really existed, it would have been a subject of much regret and deep concern in this House, and might have materially if not entirely defeated the efforts which this House of Par-
 120 121 122 123 sub silentio l. l. l. l. 124 125 126 primâ facie 127 128
 The Poor-Law Commission  Continuance Bill having been read a third time,
 Lord John Russell  said, the principle involved in the motion of the hon. Member had been decided several times, and he could not consent to adopt it.
 Mr. Shaw  agreed with the noble Lord as to the inexpediency of returning the bill on the question of privilege to the House of Lords, and saying they did so on that ground. With respect to the other parts of the noble Lord's observations, he was not certain if he were correct in his opinion, but he thought he gathered from them, that the noble Lord was not very urgent in his objections to the amendments of the House of Lords. These amendments were of three kinds: those relating to the franchise, to the freemen, and the third, which involved the point of
 138
 Sir R. H. Inglis  entertaining the greatest objection to this measure—viewing it as one of unmixed evil—and as invading the rights of the Established Church, regretted, that instead of postponing the consideration of the bill till Monday, the noble Lord had not moved its postponement for three weeks. He did not, indeed, understand, that the noble Lord intended to bring in a new bill this Session, but in the next. He viewed this measure as one of unmixed evil, and, therefore, regretted, that any further progress with it was in contemplation.
 Mr. O'Connell  could not agree with the hon. Baronet in his description of this measure, that it was one of unmixed evil but must protest against any idea going abroad, that Ireland was not entitled to the same measure of corporate reform, as had already been given to England. The people of Ireland did not ask for more, and they never would be satisfied with less. The corporations of Ireland never assumed a clerical character, except in
 139 l. l.
 Mr. C. Buller  understood this to be a bill to abolish popular control in the different new boroughs, owing to a dispute that had been raised relative to the validity of their charters. It was unfortunate, that they had no legal opinion for their guidance—that they had received none of any authority, at least, except of that eminent law officer of the Crown, the President of the Board of Trade, who seemed disposed to oust the learned Attorney-general from his office. Seeing the learned Attorney-general now in his place, however, he wished to ask him this question. In what state were the charters that had been granted to Birmingham and Manchester? Was the House to understand, that the validity of the whole charters granted to those towns, was disputed by the questions which had been raised? Was it disputed, that legal corporations existed in those boroughs? Were the appointments of magistrates questioned? or did the question merely extend to the simple point, of the power of the town-councils to levy rates? He understood at first, that the powers of the town-council were entirely disputed. If the question only extended to the power of levying rates, he thought the Government ought at once to fall back on the original bill, and not interfere needlessly with the franchises of the inhabitants.
 140
 The Attorney-General  was very imperfectly acquainted with respect to what was admitted, or what disputed by the parties who raised the question relative to those charters. But so far as he understood the subject, he had no hesitation in stating, as his own individual opinion, that the charters were  in omnibus 141
 Sir R. H. Inglis  observed, that the learned Attorney-general had expressed himself with equal confidence on the question of privilege, and yet the Court of Queen's Bench had come to a very different conclusion; and on this point all he could say was, that two learned Gentlemen had given an opinion adverse to that now given by the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 Mr. Bolling  was instructed to deny the allegations that they had no police force at Bolton adequate to meet any exigency which might arise. The commissioners of police had now an efficient force of special constables. They were levying a rate, and no refusal had been made to the payment. He would oppose the bill as tending to prejudice the questions at issue regarding the validity of the charters.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished to put a question in point of form, which he apprehended might interfere with the progress of this bill. He wished to know why this bill was not treated as a private bill? It was merely a local Act. In the case of Birmingham there was a grant of public money. But this was a local Act to all intents and purposes, and should be treated as such, as had been done in the case of Liverpool and the city of London. He hoped the Speaker would favour the House with his opinion on that point.
 The Speaker  said, that if this bill had been applied for by the inhabitants of Manchester, and if they were to have had the appointment of the constables, then it must have been treated as a private bill. But in this case the constables were to be appointed by the Crown. It was to be compulsory on the inhabitants, and therefore it was not a private bill.
 Lord J. Russell  had no wish whatever in moving this bill, to prejudice in one way or another, the questions at issue relative to the validity of the charters. With regard to the town of Bolton being sufficiently secured by special constables, he was ready to admit they would come
 142
 Mr. Grimsditch  said, the people of Manchester had an efficient police force under the control of the commissioners of police. [Mr.  Brotherton
 Mr. G. Wood  said, it was his intention to support the second reading of the bill, in the belief that it would in no way prejudice those legal questions which had been raised in the Courts of law, between the advocates and the opponents of the charter. The state of those questions had been so amply explained by the learned Attorney-general, that it would ill become him to advert more to it. But as to the necessity of Parliament making some provision for the police force in Manchester, he thought no one fully acquainted with the condition of the town could entertain any doubt. Some hon. Members had stated, that there was now a police in the town, with ample pecuniary means for its support. He entirely dissented from the accuracy of that statement. There was the old body of commissioners, in number 240, who before the charter was granted, had provided the police of the town by day and night, the expenses being defrayed by a rate they were empowered by Parliament to levy for that purpose. When the charter had been granted, and a council appointed, they concurred, that they were entitled to levy the rate and provide for the police force, and that the powers of the old commissioners were superseded under the Municipal Reform Act Thus the two parties were directly at issue, each claiming the exclusive right of levying the police rate. But the inhabitants, not knowing which of the two rates would be legal, had resolved with that shrewdness which upon monetary matte especially distinguished them—to pay neither till the question had been determined. When the council issued, their precept to the
 143
 Mr. Williams  thought what had fallen from the hon. Member for Kendal would satisfy the House that there really was no necessity for this bill. The town of Manchester bad hitherto been well governed by its own police, under a commission consisting of 240 gentlemen of all parties. And he had not heard that the police were inefficiently managed or inadequate in number. If there was any dispute between the Commissioners and the corporation, the best course to pursue, would be to give the Commissioners the management of the police, until the litigated question should be decided. This bill would in effect place the town of Manchester under Metropolitan Police Law; there were provisions in the bill never known before in the town; there were powers given to the police which had never yet been endured. He never could consent to such an arbitrary stretch of power; he trusted that the noble Lord would still desist from the measure; if not, if any Member divided against the bill, he would vote with him.
 Mr. C. Buller : The House must feel grateful to the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair for the opinion which he had given, as they now understood that this bill was not asked for by the great towns to be affected by its provisions, and that it was to be compulsorily imposed, contrary to the wishes of the inhabitants. He was gratified also to have obtained the opinion of the learned Attorney-general, which would do away with a great deal of misrepresentation which existed on the subject, and it was the more important, as that opinion was at variance with the sentiments of the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade. He did not know if these counteracting opinions were to be viewed as a continuance of the feud of yesterday, but he was disposed to pay
 144
 Lord J. Russell  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just addressed the House has taken great pains to misrepresent the principle of this billon grounds which do not apply to it, and on an assumption of facts which never existed. The hon. and learned Gentleman has alleged, that I have taken advantage of the state of these towns to introduce a centralized system of police analogous to that which is now in operation in Prance. I do not see on what grounds I can be charged with seeking any advantage by the introduction of a measure which, in so far as I am concerned, can only be attended with a great deal of trouble; and I beg to tell the hon. and learned Gentle-
 145 146
 Mr. Aglionby  had seen no proof that the bill was called for by the state of these towns, or by the wishes of the inhabitants. At the same time, he would readily acquit the noble Lord of any wish to take advantage of the situation of those towns. On the contrary, he understood that all parties in Manchester agreed that they were much indebted to the noble Lord for having brought this measure forward, so that their claims might be fairly discussed. He believed, that the noble Lord introduced this measure because he had come to the conclusion, that it was the best mode for preserving the public peace. Still he could not come to the same view of the subject. He asked, if there were any petitions in favour of this bill? [An  hon. Member No, no
 Mr. Brotherton , under ordinary circumstances, should never have given his assent to the bill before the House, but seeing the pressing necessity of the case, he could not think of sacrificing the best interests of a very large portion of the community to any party feeling whatever. There were a quarter of a million of inhabitants in the borough of Manchester, and the state of agitation and excitement in which a great portion of that number were, should have much weight with all persons who respected life and property. He would, individually, have much pre-
 147 l.
 Mr. M. Philips  said, that his only motive in supporting the measure was the peace of the community which he represented. The facts of the case were briefly these. A police force had been established in Manchester by the corporation on obtaining their charter, but funds were now wanting to pay them, or would be very soon, in consequence of the question which had been raised as to the validity of the power of raising a rate for that purpose, under that act of incorporation. Without, therefore, taking upon himself to decide the question of validity, he should support the bill, because it contained the means of providing a good and
 148 l. l. 
 
 1st week £1,009 3 0 
 2nd week 1,049 10 6 
 making for the two weeks conjoined the sum of 2,058 l. s. d. 
 1st week (27th August) £957 3 10 
 2nd week 1,033 14 6 
 Making for that period £1,990 18 4 

 While in 1839, for the same space of time, commencing with the 31st of July, the sum was no more than;— 
 For the 1st week £813 19 8 
 For the 2nd week 312 5 1 
 Being but £1,126 4 9 s. d. s. d. 149
 Lord G. Somerset  was much obliged to the hon. Member for informing the House of the exact state of the case as regarded Manchester, for, up to that moment, he had not been aware of the immediate necessity of the measure for that borough. He was, therefore, a convert to the bill; and, being so, he was very glad that it had not been made a supplementary measure to assist the corporation. He could not help feeling some slight degree of surprise, however, at the conduct of the hon. Member for Salford, in supporting the bill before the House and opposing the Birmingham Police Bill, which went on the same principle. It was quite clear, however, from what had been stated, that there was no power in the corporation of Manchester to raise the police-rate until the question as to the validity of the charter had been legally decided; and, therefore, that there could be no police-rate until that took place. Believing that such a state of things should not be permitted at the present time, he was now ready to support the principle of the bill, reserving to himself the right of altering some clauses in committee.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, he was so strongly opposed to this measure, that he should move that it be committed on that day three months. The first bill which was introduced gave the town-council the entire management of their police, and no objection was made to that bill, except to the grant of 10,000 l. 150 l. 151
 Mr. T. Attwood  seconded the amendment. He hoped the noble Lord would now consent to withdraw the bill. He had received a letter this day from the town clerk of Birmingham, informing him that a petition had been presented to the council earnestly praying them, if this bill passed into a law, to terminate its operation as soon as the law gave them power—or as soon as it was decided that the law gave them power to levy the rates for their own police. But the council had rejected the petition, on the ground that it was unworthy of them, as men and Englishmen, to have anything to do with this bill. They were grave, and respectable men—very few of them had been members of the Political Union, therefore they were entitled to the noble Lord's respect. The first bill was constitutional and reasonable; this was unconstitutional and arbitrary—the first step towards driving in the wedge for the French  gens d'urmerie. 152 153 "Provided always, that when the authority of the Mayor, Aldermen, and Corporation of Birmingham shall be ascertained by due course of law, and it shall be shown they possess the legal right of levying rates, that from that time the authority of this Act shall cease and determine."
 Mr. C. Buller  wished to impress on the hon. Gentleman the impolicy of dividing the House at this stage, because it gave an air of factious opposition to a proceeding which had hitherto been conducted on high and constitutional grounds. The House had decided in favour of the principle of the bill. He proposed, therefore, to take the sense of the House as to the propriety of keeping the appointment in the hands of the town-council. He also wished to direct the attention of the noble Lord to the proposal of the hon. Member for Birmingham—that the bill should not go further than the reasons assigned—and that, when any corporation should be established in Birmingham, things should be allowed to return to the ordinary course, and the town should be allowed to be governed by the local authorities. He would also take the opinion of the House as to the propriety of taking the authority out of the hands of the corporation.
 Mr. Scholefield  was afraid he should disappoint the wishes of many of his constituents, whose feelings were very strongly against the bill. The noble Lord had satisfied some of his scruples; and if he would adopt the suggestion of his hon. Colleague, that would remove an additional objection. He felt, in common with many of his Friends, that it would be dangerous to press this matter, without doing something to assuage the feelings of the people. When a petition was proposed in the town-council on this subject, it was rejected, on the grounds that they would not, in any shape, recognise a measure so insulting; they felt it was an infringement of the liberties of the people. Their opposition to it was national, although they felt it as a local attack upon them, that they should be the first selected for the intro-
 154
 Mr. Wakley  suggested, that the noble Lord should go into committee,  pro formâ
 Lord John Russell  had already said, that he did not wish the powers granted by this bill to be continued longer than the decision of the case now litigated. But it was not so easy as the hon. Member for Finsbury supposed to draw a clause on the subject, for other matters were disputed before the Queen's Bench beside the power of levying a rate; besides, it was doubtful, whether there might not be an appeal from the decision of that court to the Exchequer Chamber and House of Lords. He saw no reason why they should not go into committee.
 Mr. Attwood  seconded the amendment.
 Mr. Hawes  objected that the title of the bill was not accurate, as it excluded Lambeth, which was part of the metropolis, and the inhabitants paid their proportion to the coal duties. He did not wish for any specific improvement, but he suggested, that the Commissioners of Woods and Forests should have power, if they should think fit on a survey, to apply a portion of funds in their hands to the improvement of Lambeth. He would, therefore, move, that certain words should be added to the preamble.
 Mr. Clay  said, that it was not the intention of the committee to vest any power of surveying and carrying out any alterations or improvements not recommended by the committee. There were many improvements in Lambeth and Westminster which were most desirable; the improvements of Westminster, were brought before the committee by one of the Members for that city, but the committee, after long consideration, decided that those mentioned in the preamble were most important. In the report of the Poor-law Commissioners last year there was a very important report from Dr.
 156
 Mr. Alderman Humphery  wished, that the hon. Gentleman had referred to Dr. Smith's report as to Lambeth; if he had, he would have found as great evil from fever; and he did think that the preamble should be enlarged, for a street might be made on the Southwark side of the river, from Westminster-bridge to London-bridge, for less than 50,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he should object to the proposed amendment. In the first place, the bill before the House was not for the purpose of effecting the contemplated improvements, but only for the purpose of giving to the commissioners of Woods and Forests the means of ascertaining, during the recess, what would be the expense of completing those improvements, and it would be for Parliament to determine next year whether those improvements ought or ought not to take place. The present bill had been unanimously recommended by the committee, which was not a packed committee, and he was the only Member of Government on it. The improvement in Lambeth, he was ready to admit, was of great importance to the whole metropolis. But he was not going to discuss the merits of these different plans, but to carry out the objects of the committee, which he was most anxious to effect.
 Mr. Hawes  formally moved the insertion of words as he had proposed.
 Mr. Hume  asked if there was sufficient money out of the 200,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that, from their present information, it appeared that there would be no surplus.
 Mr. Alderman Humphery  thought, that if the improvements recommended by the committee were properly managed, there would be a surplus, and that surplus, whatever it was, he wished to secure for Lambeth and Southwark.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  hoped the noble Viscount would state to the House the grounds on which this motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders was made.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that he had entered into the grounds upon which he intended to make his motion on the previous evening at very considerable length, but he would repeat them in a very few words for the satisfaction of the hon. Baronet. He understood that the ground of the rejection of the former bill arose from a misconception on the part of the House of Lords as to the form of the pro-
 158
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose to submit to the House the resolutions of which he had given notice. The House having recently consented to place at the disposal of her Majesty the means necessary for increasing the military force of the country, he thought, they as the representatives of the people, owed it to the distressed millions of this country, from whose pockets those means were collected, to do something more than merely vote money and agree to measures of coercion. It was also due to them to admit that their manifold grievances were not altogether unfounded, and that there were many just causes of the late and existing discontent, which coercion alone, would not put an end to, but which ought to be met by a disposition to redress. It might be very easy for hon. Members in that House—it might be very easy for those who were basking in the sunshine of a Court—it might be very easy for those who were enjoying all the blessings of affluence and prosperity, to blame the people for their impatience and unreasonableness; and it was also very easy to attribute the dis-
 159 160 161 l. 162 
 "1. That in agreeing to provide the means for an increase of her Majesty's military forces, called for by the Executive Government at an unusual time, and under peculiar circumstances, it is the duty of this House to declare— "2. That the troubled state of the country arises from causes which the application of repressive means, against large classes of her Majesty's subjects, will not remove "3. That the existing discontents are, in no small degree, to be attributed to the neglect of Parliament, in not taking measures for the improvement of the social and political condition of the people. "4. That, in particular, in the present Session, Parliament has refused to remove restrictions on the foreign trade of the country, especially the trade in corn; thereby limiting the demand for English labour, and diminishing its remuneration, while the cost of subsistence is increased; and the new Poor-law is enforced, with the view of teaching the people to rely on their own resources, by the same Legislature which prevents the poor from exchanging their labour for the cheaper food of foreign countries. "5. That the measures promised at the commencement of this Session, for rendering justice cheap and accessible to all, have been abandoned, while the salaries of judges and magistrates have been augmented. "6. That the grievance of church rates remains unredressed. "7. That for a national education a very small and inadequate provision has been made, while the military and naval expenditure had been greatly augmented. "8. That any necessity for an increase of the army is mainly occasioned by the disturbances in Canada, and that, until a satisfactory arrangement of the affairs of that colony be effected, the relief of the people of this country from the expense of its military occupation is not to be looked for; notwithstanding which, the Session has passed away without any attempt by Parliament to effect such settlement. "9. That the prayers of the people for further reform have been disregarded. "10. That protection to the elector, in the free exercise of the suffrage, was denied, by
 163 "11. That this House has not only refused to grant any extension of electoral privileges, but even to take into consideration the prayers of upwards of a million of her Majesty's subjects, who solicited attention to their claim of franchise. "12. That no hope has been held out to the people that, at any future time, Parliament will grant redress of their social and political grievances. "13. That until the spirit and course of legislation in the Imperial Parliament be changed, and proper regard had to the welfare and wishes of the whole people, instead of the interests of predominant classes, no security from the recurrence of such disturbances as the Government now demands the aid of Parliament to repress, can be reasonably expected."
 Lord John Russell  said, considering the length of these resolutions, the hon. Member had certainly not made a long speech in support of them; and as the hon. Gentleman had not thought it necessary to enter into detail on the subject, he did not think it necessary to take a different course. The main gist of these resolutions seemed to be, to call on that House to resolve, that if a different policy had been pursued as to certain measures, the existing discontents would not have prevailed to the same extent, and the application of repressive means would not have been required. One fact was quite clear, that those who were most discontented, and whose prayer the House had refused to take into consideration, had been themselves the most opposed to those very measures which the hon. Gentleman had declared were necessary in order to satisfy them. First, as regarded the Corn-laws, He had been in favour of taking that subject into consideration, and of the House resolving itself into committee on the question; and if there had been at the time a very general opinion expressed on the part of the people against the continuance of the Corn-laws, he thought it not at all improbable that the motion might have been attended with success. But so far from that being the case, one of the most prominent points insisted upon by those who had so petitioned Parliament at their public meetings, was a determined opposition to repeal the Corn-laws, and they endeavoured to prevent petitions for repeal from coming to the House. The usual supporters of the Corn-laws, in fact, considered that they had achieved a great triumph
 164 165 166 167
 Mr. Wakley  saw nothing in the resolutions open to the objections of the noble Lord. Upon this subject he should regard himself as one of the most cowardly of mankind if he did not, in the face of the House and the country, declare that he considered the conduct of that House as infinitely worse than that of her Majesty's Ministers, and there was no ground whatever to justify the House in the course that it had pursued. The Ministers had every temptation to do wrong—they met with every encouragement from the House in their bad proceedings, and they hardly met with support in their good measures. He did not think, therefore, that his hon. colleague would have been justified in placing the censure entirely on the Government. He did not believe that the people would get better treatment from a Parliament, constituted like the present, than they got this Session. He felt satisfied that it was not in the nature of the House, constituted as it was, to pass any great legislative measures for the benefit of the country. Hon. Members almost seemed disposed to treat the people like a set of untameable wild beasts. They seemed ever desirous that the liberties of the people should be abridged. Was it then to be expected
 168 No, no 169 170 l. 171 172
 Mr. T. Attwood  perfectly agreed in all that had been said by the hon. Member who had just sat down, and only regretted that the other hon. Member for Finsbury, had made his resolutions so long. The discontent that prevailed amongst the working-classes, arose from the want of employment, or low wages, or both. It happened that when the people of England had full wages, they only got half work; and when they had full work, they only received half wages. There must, therefore, be something vicious in the state of society, to lead to such a result. There must be some great organic disease of the body politic. The noble Lord had addressed the House very much in the tone of a very excellent man who had been his predecessor in that House as the representative of the Government, who on one occasion said, in reply to a complaint of distress, that he was surprised to hear any person make such an observation in that happy land, as he had never heard of it before. This was Lord Spencer, who complained that any one should assert there was distress in that happy land. This reminded him again of an old lady, who was sitting down to an excellent dinner during the riots of the Luddites, and who exclaimed, "How can people do so in this happy country, where God Almighty provides such plenty." Persons who had large incomes in the funds, or held mort gages, were always exclaiming that England was the envy of surrounding nations, and the admiration of the world. It might be so to these mortgagees and money-mongers; but it was not so to the suffering labouring population. He would remind the House of what had brought the monied aristocracy into the powerful situation which they filled. He was sure, that the noble Lord, from his appearance, knew what he was about to say. About twenty years ago, this monied aristocracy, by means of a legal quibble, got this great advantage to themselves, and they behaved like Nicholas of Russia. They did not, like Alexander, fix the metallic
 173 oh, oh
 Mr. Villiers  said, there was considerable analogy between the course taken by the hon. Gentleman who spoke last and that of the Chartists at their public meetings. The hon. Gentleman was always repeating the opinion that he received more favour at the hands of hon. Gentlemen opposite than from Members of his own side of the House. The fact was, that there was something so singular in the matter and so eccentric in the manner of the hon. Gentleman, that he contrived to throw discredit and ridicule on almost every question he touched upon in the House. He did not say, of course, that this was intended by the hon. Gentleman, but most
 174 175
 Mr. Warburton  would support the resolutions most cordially. They went nearly on the same grounds which he himself took in opposing the extension of the standing army. The discontents which prevailed were not confined to the lowest or most ignorant classes. There was a large number of steady and thinking persons in the country who had been the supporters of moderate reform from the time when the Whigs last came into power, and a very considerable portion of these were entirely dissatisfied with the course of legislation which that House had pursued. The noble Lord said, that it was the Chartists themselves who had interrupted the progress of the Corn-law question; but this was not because they were in favour of the continuance of these laws, but because they considered that to petition the House, in its present constitution, to abolish those laws, would be utterly useless. Looking to the non-progress of the measures brought in for the good of the people, the people had a right to conclude, that the constitution of the House was not what it ought to be. It was because of the finality principle, and of the discontent which it caused, alienating from the Government the affections of the middle classes, the best supporters of order and the public peace, that violence had been supposed to exist. He hoped that principle would be abandoned, and that her Majesty's Government would advance the cause of reform. If they
 176
 Mr. D'Israeli  said, that when the hon. Member for Birmingham ascribed the present condition of the country to the state of the currency, he thought he would find a more obvious cause in the systematic attacks which had been made since the Reform Bill upon the civil rights of England. Of late years, the Government of the country had been engaged in assailing the rights of the people, and the people had turned round with an instinctive spirit, and assailed the constitution of the realm. That he believed to be the real state of the country at the present moment. If hon. Gentlemen would only take a retrospective glance at what had passed during the last seven years, and see what the Government of this country had done in attacking the civil rights of the people, they would not be surprised at the effect which had been produced. Within the last seven years they had attacked the Church; they had totally revolutionized the parochial jurisdiction of the country—that most ancient jurisdiction, an institution bringing much finer and nearer relations between the people than any political institution they could boast of; they had attacked the ancient police of the country; they had attacked the old local administration of justice, and confiscated the ancient patrimony of the people. They had attacked trial by jury, and had destroyed old corporations. He should like to know what could create discontent throughout the country, if conduct such as that would not. Every public sedition, that had spread, had always originated from an attack upon the civil rights of the people. Generally speaking, sections of the aristocracy had taken advantage of the circumstance, and placed themselves at the head of the people in the political movement. It was a most remarkable fact, however, that in the present instance there was no portion of the aristocracy whatever connected with the movement of the people; and yet there was a deep and a wide spread organization. What might be the cause of that, it was the duty of the House to inquire. The noble Lord was not only a political student, but an eminent historian. The noble Lord, it seemed, had discovered the cause of sedition. Far be it from him to cope with the noble Lord in endeavour-
 177 178 179
 Mr. Ewart  thought, that the hon. Member, in his stock of grievances, might have omitted the abolition of the ancient constabulary, who had gone to their political grave—the brethren of  Dogberry Verges.
 Sir H. Verney  expressed his belief that the present disturbances had arisen entirely from the increase in the population not having been followed up by an adequate increase in that moral and religious instruction which the people ought to receive. These alone were the means by which peace and tranquillity could be obtained; and it was well known that in the disturbed districts sufficient moral and religious instruction were not afforded to the people.
 181
 Mr. Hume  rose amidst loud cries of "Divide." He thought that the hon. Baronet had misrepresented the cause which the people had for discontent. The truth was that the contest now going on was one between the aristocracy and the democracy. The laws were made by the aristocracy, and what was the consequence? Why, that they oppressed the poor, and favoured the rich. In this country it might be said that industry was unprotected and oppressed, and sure he was, that unless they gave the people a larger share in the representation than they now had, discontent must continue.
 Mr. W. Stanley  said, that he believed the present disturbances were owing to the conduct of certain parties in that House in connexion with certain other parties out of it. These parties pressed for alterations in the constitution which it would be neither wise nor safe to make, and it was because they were unable to attain their object that they set the people against the laws. This was the true way in which to account for the present state of discontent which existed.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought it was not worth while to reject the petition: they could afford to laugh at it.
 Mr. O'Connell begged  to ask the noble Lord if the report was true, that more troops had been withdrawn from Ireland
 Lord John Russell  said, it was true, His noble Friend at the head of the War Department, had been in communication with the Commander-in-chief of the forces in Ireland, who informed him that if there was any necessity for it, he could readily spare more troops, and another regiment had been sent for. The noble Lord then said, that in moving the adjournment of the consideration of the Lords' Amendments in the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Bill to this day, he had stated at the same time, that it would not be advisable to take objections to the bill on the question of privilege, and send it back on that ground to the House of Lords. The only other course which remained, was to bring in a new bill, either now or at the commencement of the next Session of Parliament. He thought there were very
 197
 Mr. Shaw  had understood the noble Lord to say on a former occasion, that, assuming the House was not disposed to differ from the amendments proposed by the House of Lords, in order to get rid of the question of privilege, he should introduce a new bill, either during the present, or at the commencement of the next Session of Parliament. It appeared, that the noble Lord had decided to postpone the introduction of any measure to next Session, and to that purpose he did not object. He agreed with the noble Lord, as to the impolicy of entering into any discussion of the subject at present.' But there was one single point on which he wished to set himself right. It appeared from what had passed on this subject a
 198
 Mr. O'Connell : I am now quite convinced, as the right bon. Gentleman has taken the trouble to repeat it in the course of his speech, that he is an enemy to the present bill; but, I must say, that the right hon. Gentleman has taken rather an odd way of shewing his dislike to the measure by endeavouring to persuade the noble Lord to accept it. With respect to the exhibition of party spirit which the right hon. Gentleman complains of being exerted in the election of Poor-law guardians in Ireland, I am quite ready to discuss that question, and I am ready to show, that while the popular party generally returned Protestants to serve as guardians, the anti-popular party had not returned one Catholic. The party spirit to which the right hon. Gentleman referred is thus fostered by the non-grant of corporate reform. I am glad, however, to understand, that both Houses are agreed as to a basis of corporate reform for Ireland. I am quite ready to suppose, that the Conservative party in both Houses are agreed, with one or two exceptions, to support this bill, because there could not be a worse bill than it is in its present shape. Why should it not be similar to the English bill? The people of Ireland demand a bill similar to the English in every respect. A majority in this House will grant such a bill. A majority in the
 199 200 201 202 Morning Chronicle 203 204 "It is not my wish that you should exercise the privilege of setting aside a juror, except in cases in which a juror is connected with the parties in the case. You will not set aside any juror on account of his political and religious opinions; and you will be pleased, in every case in which you may consider it necessary to set a juror aside, to make a note of the objection to him." 205 206 207
 Sir W. Somerville  expressed his deep regret that this bill was still further delayed. Notwithstanding what was said on the opposite side, he knew that the loss of this measure would excite a deep feeling of disappointment. He deprecated party-spirit in the administration of the Poor-law, but violent proceedings were not confined to one side.
 Mr. Shaw , in explanation, begged to state that he had not asserted that the Poor-law guardians of Dublin were not persons of respectability; what he said was, that their election was governed by a violent and angry party spirit. With respect to what had been said by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin in reference to the Earl of Courtown, he requested the House to suspend its judgment until he had the opportunity of explaining the circumstances to which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred, and of which he had as yet heard nothing.
 Lord John Russell  must oppose the clause upon the ground that it would go further than he contemplated, when he stated that he did not mean the bill to extend to parishes with local acts.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that he should oppose the motion. He thought of all the breaches of faith ever committed, the conduct of the Government in the present
 208
 Mr. Hume , considering with his hon. Friend that this was a direct breach of faith in the face of the House, though that the measure ought not to pass; and if his hon. Friend should divide the House he would vote with him.
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that if he had ever said that he would agree to a clause enacting that this bill should not effect any parish in which there existed a local act, and now opposed it, then the hon. Gentleman might with justice accuse him of a breach of faith; but he had never said anything of the sort; therefore, he knew not why he should be bound to vote for the clause which had been proposed. When he was asked whether this bill would affect any local acts, he answered that it was not his intention to affect those parishes; and he now declared that in introducing this bill he never intended thereby to apply the New Poor-law Act to parishes having local acts. But that declaration did not bind him to accept any form of words to be introduced into the bill which any Gentleman might frame. How his conduct on this occasion could be said to be a breach of faith he could not conceive.
 Viscount Howick  understood his noble Friend merely to have pledged himself that this bill should not be the means of introducing the Poor-law into those parishes which were not yet under the operation of that law; but his noble Friend never assented to introduce a clause excepting those parishes where there were local acts for the collection of poor-rates merely.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that when the subject of the charges on the pension of the Duke of Marlborough was brought under the notice of the House by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Vernon Harcourt), with the view of relieving it from the five shillings in the pound land-tax duty, it was determined that the matter should be referred to a committee to inquire into the subject. The committee reported on the facts, and the result was, that although the pension was chargeable with the land-tax duty, yet that there could be no doubt that the duty of one shilling and sixpence in the pound on it was inconsistent with the Parliamentary grant. He should have been disposed to propose the remission of both these duties, if he was as well satisfied that the land-tax was improperly charged as he was on the other charge. He concluded with moving for leave to bring in a bill to exempt the Parliamentary grant to the heirs of John Duke of Marlborough from the payment of the duty of one shilling and sixpence in the pound.
 Hume thought  such a measure should have been brought forward at the early part of the Session, when they had time to examine into the subject, but he protested against its being introduced at almost the close of the Session, when but few Members were in attendance, and when there was no time for deliberation. He should therefore oppose the motion.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that he had opposed the proposition of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire for the remission of the land-tax of five shillings in the pound, chargeable on this pension, but this was very different from exempting it from the additional payment of one shilling and sixpence in the pound. The committee had recommended the latter, and he saw no reason for postponing the bill.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to move, pursuant to notice, that an address should be presented to her Majesty, praying her Majesty to give directions for the appointment of a commissioner to examine forthwith and to report on the best of the four railroads, already made or surveyed, to the nearest ports to Dublin, and upon the best means of communication by steam between such port and Dublin. This could not be drawn into a precedent, because the line depended principally on the goodness of the harbours, and no other line would be so connected.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had been in communication with a great number of Members from Ireland, England, and Wales, on this subject, which would not militate against an; general principle. If it bad rested with the Treasury alone to make the arrangement, he would have felt no difficulty; but as a similar question in another direction had been before Parlia-
 214
 Dr. Lushington  objected to the principle of the first clause of the bill, the object of which was to enable wholesale dealers to sell any quantity of foreign spirits or liqueurs exceeding one bottle in quantity, on taking out a license, which should cost them five guineas. The law which now existed was, that no less a quantity than two gallons should be sold at once; and licensed victuallers complained that the effect of the proposed provision would be to take away from them what they considered to be the most respectable part of their trade. They declared also, that that attention to which the respectability of their body entitled them bad not been paid to their interests, and that they had not been consulted, and had not been heard in opposition to or in support of the measure. It was impossible to compare the retail dealer with the licensed victualler. If the former were possessed of his cellar, and those means only which were requisite to enable him to carry on his trade, he was in a condition to support his business, while the latter was placed under number-less restrictions. He must have public rooms for the accommodation of his customers, and beds must also be prepared for the reception of his guests. The mischief would be more particularly felt in the seaport towns, for there the retail trade was carried on to an extent much greater than in those inland, and he conceived that this bill, should it pass into a law, would introduce a petty innovation in the existing condition of the licensed victuallers, important, however, to them, as depriving them of their most respectable, as well as their most profitable business. He could see no reason why the clause
 215
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted, that the observations of the right hon. Gentleman were entitled to great weight at the hands of the House; but he thought that the effect of the proposed bill would only be to legalise that which was illegal at this moment, but which, in spite of its illegality, was done every day in the case of most wholesale dealers, and in the establishment of nearly every hon. Member of that House; and he was sure that if he were to look over the monthly bills of any hon. Member, it would be found that small quantities, of whatever foreign spirits or liqueurs were required, were purchased from the wholesale dealer.
 Mr. H. Hinde  thought if this bill was passed, the wine dealers ought to be subjected to the same liability as the publicans, such as having soldiers quartered upon them. The bill would, also, in his opinion, operate as a great hardship on the licensed victuallers.
 Lord John Russell  did not know whether the hon. Gentleman had any particular objection to any power given by 10 Geo. 4th; he had not stated any, and he (Lord J. Russell) was not aware that any change in the bill was necessary. If one point were intended, he would say that he had no objection to depriving the police constables appointed under this bill from voting for the borough of Birmingham.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the hon. Gentleman was right when he said that his object was to maintain peace. To carry out that object with general consent, he owned, was a very difficult task. He had at first proposed to place the police under the town-council, and that was objected to by many of the inhabitants. Another way of preserving the peace was, as he had done, by undertaking, at the request of the magistrates, to allow the use of the London police. The town-council had come to a resolution condemning that proceeding, and they did not like to have their town under the London police. At the same time he was informed by the mayor, that till there was a police they had to rely entirely on a military force. Now, they could not tranquillize the town if they did not have the London police, if they did not have a police under the town-council, if they did not have a military force, or if they would not have the force proposed by this bill. It was his wish to effect the object proposed in the least objectionable way, and he was not aware that this bill was objectionable. He was sure that if he had gone on with the other bill, not only would it have been objected to, but that it would not have passed the two Houses of Parliament, and he was satisfied that the hon. Gentleman was the last who would say, that the peace of the town should be preserved by a military force.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he should oppose the reception of the petition. The language it contained was not only disrespectful, but called upon the House in a threatening manner to pass certain measures.
 Mr. Speaker , Order! order! The hon. Member is at present alluding to what passed on a former debate, which is against the rules of the House.
 Mr. Finch  believed that there was no objection on the part of the members of the town-council of Birmingham to the establishment of a police force; but they did object to the appointment of the chief commissioner by her Majesty's Government. He wished also to ask the noble Lord, whether the whole of the powers of the 10th of Geo. 4th were to be transferred to Birmingham? When the bill was in committee he understood that the Government would look close into the clauses before another stage was taken on the bill; and he did hope that all the powers of that Act would not be transferred to Birmingham.
 Mr. Shaw  agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, (the Attorney-general) as to the seditious character and tendency of the petition-Petition rejected.
 Mr. Fielden  could not discover that the petition contained any threat. The petitioners stated what had been done by bygone Parliaments.
 Mr. Fielden  presented a petition from the Cobbett Club in London, praying for vote by ballot, universal suffrage, annual Parliaments, and the payment of the people's representatives. The petition was couched in rather strong language, and the hon. Member, is reply to a question from the Speaker, refused to make himself responsible for the language it contained, but suggested, that it might be read by the clerk at the Table, when the House might judge for itself, whether it would receive the petition or not.
 Mr. Hume  inquired whether the noble Lord had seen the proceedings of the town-council, unanimously objecting to this bill?—and whether he expected by this bill to preserve peace in the town, when all the magistrates were hostile to its provisions? This bill seemed to him the most effectual means of all others to prevent that desirable end, by causing distrust. Indeed, it would be better to take away the charter altogether than to place an individual in office in opposition to the town-council. He appealed to the noble Lord, whose object he was sure was to preserve the peace, whether this was not calculated to do mischief, and if it was so calculated, the noble Lord, he knew, was the last man who would sanction it.
 Mr. Scholefield  wished merely to say, that Mr. Edmonds, so far from advocating physical force, admonished the people
 210
 Mr. Scholefield  said, it was his imperative duty to oppose the motion. He and his hon. Colleague had been desired to resist the bill in every stage. On the former debate one of the reasons given for withholding the confidence of this House from the town-council of Birmingham was, that they had acted with extreme impropriety in appointing Mr. Edmonds as clerk of the peace, he having at a public meeting advocated physical force. Now, Mr. Edmonds declared that it was a gross misrepresentation to say that he ever advocated physical force. He could not conceive that Sir R. Peel (who had made the accusation) was capable of misrepresenting any person; but most certainly he was—
 Mr. P. Howard  observed, that the reception of a petition amounted to admitting, that the petitioners had assumed a legitimate and constitutional course. To allow the present petition to remain on the Table, would be a tacit sanction of the conduct of the petitioners.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  seconded the amendment. Whatever the noble Lord might think of his politics, he was sure that there was not one member of the council whose politics went as far as his would, and very few had belonged to the political union over which he had presided. With regard to Mr. Edmonds in particular, he was the first man in the Birmingham political union who denounced the recourse to arms and physical force. In the autumn of the last year, when two Tories, set on by others, he knew not whom, the rev. J R. Stephens and Mr. Oastler recommended, or were reported to have recommended, the use of arms and the application of physical force, Mr. Edmonds was the first to denounce the illegality and the injustice of such a course. The consequence was that he was attacked by many parties in a most unfair manner; he was accused of being a traitor to the principles he had professed throughout life, because he would not stand by the recommendations which had been held out to a deluded people. It should be considered that Mr. Edmonds was the first man attacked and injured; the minds of his neighbours were poisoned against him, but he had displayed strict Conservatism, much uprightness and integrity, and great truth and loyalty of character. But Mr. Douglas and Mr. Muntz had been also attacked for the same cause. These were the principal Radicals in the Birmingham council, being Whigs. Birmingham, then, was to be insulted, in consequence of a clique of local Tories having misrepresented the character of the people of Birmingham to the noble Lord. He hoped that the noble Lord would not persevere; but if he did, he (Mr. Attwood) must vote against him, and endeavour to prevent the bill becoming law; for he firmly believed, that instead of making peace it would create anarchy. Having the bad example of the introduction of the London police before him, the noble Lord said, "I will give you a police of your own, but I will make it most objectionable." Now, he warned the noble Lord, that Birmingham was the last place in which to try a
 211
 Mr. Grimsditch  was for a general revision of the law relating to the sale of spirits and wines, and opposed the bill as a partial measure.
 Captain Pechell  felt in great difficulty as to this bill, as his constituents were divided in opinion upon it. Had not the Chancellor of the Exchequer better postpone it to next Session?
 The Attorney-General  felt he was called upon to rise and state, that in his opinion the petition ought not to be received. It appeared to him, that the tendency of the petition was to excite to a breach of the
 196
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that the petition was an impudent and deliberate attempt to ascertain what extent of insult the House of Commons would bear. He fully concurred in thinking, that the petition ought not to be allowed to lie on the Table.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested that the hon. Member should leave the matter in the hands of those who was responsible for lighting the House.
 Mr. Scholefield, agreeably  to the wishes of a majority of the inhabitants, and of the whole of the town-council of Birmingham, felt it his painful duty to oppose the motion of the noble Lord, ant4 moved, as an amendment, that is to be read a third time that day three months,
 Lord G. Somerset , in consequence of the statement of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester, had been induced to give his support to the second reading of this bill, believing, from what was then stated, that unless some such measure were passed, there would in a short time be no police force in Manchester. Since that discussion, he had been at some pains to ascertain how the facts stood, and the result was, he had come to the conclusion that this bill was not called for by the necessities of the case. The noble Lord founded the present measure on the propriety of having a large and efficient police force in the town of Manchester, in consequence of the disturbed state of that district; but he maintained, there had been no such overt acts in Manchester as justified the House in passing such a stringent bill as the present. He was quite aware that yesterday there had been some windows broken, but he was also aware that that violence had been put
 249 in toto 250
 Mr. M. Philips  said, the noble Lord had been pleased to refer to the statement which he had made upon the previous discussion of this measure. The statement he then made was perfectly candid and correct. He felt himself in a very unpleasant situation in coming forward to support a bill, which he believed was necessary for the tranquillity of the town which he represented, but which he admitted did partake somewhat of an unconstitutional character. It had been represented that a considerable amount had been collected by the police commissioners. But the point which it was important to bear in mind was, whether their power of collecting the rates could be relied on. And he begged to direct attention to the 124th clause of the 11th Geo. 4th, the Act under which the commissioners were empowered, and it would be seen, that by this clause, any parties depositing the amount of a disputed rate with the collector, and giving notice to the commissioners, might appeal against such rate to the Quarter Sessions, within four months.
 251 the vexata question replevin,
 Mr. Grimsditch  believed the bill to be unnecessary; and he asked, why not introduce a short bill to settle the disputed point? The commissioners and the corporators were many of them the same parties. There was no evidence offered to the House to prove that they ought to pass such a bill as this. He thought there must be some pressure upon the noble
 252
 Mr. P. Thomson : It had been stated, that no reason had been brought forward for passing the bill. Why, the fact was, that the reasons adduced were so strong that the noble Lord, who now proposed the amendment, had been induced by them to vote for the second reading of the bill. It had been contended, that the case was not parallel with that of Birmingham; he contended that it was so, as far as the necessity of providing some police force went. The very circumstance, that in the threatened disturbance of yesterday the existing police at Manchester had been able to preserve the peace of the town, formed the strongest reason in favour of this bill. The fact was, that neither the town-council nor the commissioners possessed the means of continuing that police force, and unless this measure was passed, the town would be exposed to repetitions of the scenes of yesterday. He would not enter into details, as they had been already fully argued by his hon. Friend and colleague. He should give the bill his most sincere and cordial support.
 Mr. Brotherton  had always been a supporter of every liberal measure, but he never would oppose any bill that he deemed essential for the preservation of the public peace. The hon. Gentleman opposite said there had been no riots, no burnings in Manchester, and therefore they would not support the passing of this bill. Was he, then, to suppose, that these hon. Members thought the House ought to wait till such outrages actually occurred, and only then adopt proper measures to restore tranquillity? Manchester consisted of six townships, and the commissioners of police had no jurisdiction in fire of them. They had no power to extend their jurisdiction beyond the principal township of Manchester, and the other five were thus left without a police. He was
 253
 Mr. Bolling  had supported the second reading of the bill, but, from the communications he had received from his constituents, he was now prepared to oppose all those bills, as he thought the peace of the district would be best preserved by their withdrawal.
 Lord J. Russell  said, the clause of the bill most opposed by hon. Gentlemen was that one which the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Tamworth, said it was his duty to propose, as conservator of the peace of the country; why it should be good for Birmingham, and should not be applied to Manchester, he did not know. His duty was to take steps for the preservation of the peace in every place wherein it could not be done by the local authorities. According to the opinions he had taken, if the charter of incorporation was good, the whole power of raising rates for the support of the police was vested in the corporation; and, therefore, immediately there was a decision in a court of law that the charter was good, that decision would carry this consequence, that all rates for the purpose of police should be ordered by the council, and that all other rates levied by others would be bad rates. In that case, it was evident that many parties would hesitate to pay at present, because they might have to pay all rates due over again from a certain day. That was not merely a legal view taken by those who had given that opinion, but it was supported by the conduct of the police commissioners themselves; because a protest had been signed by 92 commissioners out of 240, declaring the rate to be illegal,
 254 255
 Colonel Salwey  admitted the necessity of a police in all large towns, but then that police ought to be a constitutional force, and he did not think the police sought to be established by this bill would be constitutional. The military would be glad to be relieved from a most painful duty, and which was repugnant to their feelings; but any police force that was established ought to be established under the entire control of the parties who required it,
 Mr. C. Buller  had never heard more unfounded imputations than those which had been thrown out against the opponents of this bill. It had been argued by the noble Lord and the other supporters of this bill, that its opponents were adverse to the establishment of an efficient police—that they were the friends of riot and disturbance—and that they wished to see the people killed by the soldiers. Even the hon. Member for Salford had joined in those imputations, and said that the opponents of the bill were actuated by factious motives. Now, he certainly did not generally agree with hon. Gentlemen opposite, but in this case he certainly did, because he agreed with them in their desire to see the public peace preserved by the old constitutional forms. Hon. Gentlemen opposite thought, no doubt, that that object could be accomplished by means of the old police commissioners. He did not acquiesce in that course, because he thought the police of Manchester and Birmingham should be under the control of their respective town-councils, freely chosen by the inhabitants. But then he joined hon. Gentlemen opposite in resisting this bill, which placed the police of those towns in the hands of persons to be appointed by a central government. The noble Lord had said, that the course proposed to be adopted by this bill was suggested by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. All that the right hon. Baronet had said was, that under the particular circumstances of the case, he should wish that principle to be applied to Birmingham, and he had not said when he gave that inch he wished the noble Lord to take an ell, and go on applying this centralized sytem of police to the whole country. If the right hon. Baronet did not think it worth while to be
 256
 Mr. Briscoe  said, that the bill was not of a permanent nature. The noble Lord had distinctly stated that it was to continue only till the disputes relative to the validity of the charter was settled by the Court of Queen's Bench. He had no intention of attributing motives to hon. Members, but certainly their conduct wore the appearance of faction, and seemed to proceed from a desire to embarrass the Government. But he believed that the good sense of the people of England would induce them to view the matter differently, and that the result would tend much to strengthen the position of the Government. He trusted that the bill would be carried by a considerable majority. The Government were entitled to the gratitude and confidence of the country, for having introduced it solely from a desire to promote the peace and prosperity of Manchester.
 Mr. Kemble  felt considerable difficulty in making up his mind as to the course he should adopt in regard to this bill. He should object to a bill of this nature, if he did not conceive it was required by the necessity of the case. But he could not agree in thinking that, because there had been no such riots and outrages committed in Manchester as had taken place in Birmingham, they should, therefore, wait till they had actually happened, instead of taking means to prevent their oc-
 257
 Mr. Hume , before the House divided, wished to state very shortly the grounds on which he should give his vote. He had opposed the Birmingham Police Bill, because it was against the wishes of the town-council of Birmingham. He should now state the reasons why, on this occasion, he should take a different course. The magistrates and corporation of Manchester were a popular body. The bill is supported by the whole of that corporation. While the whole town-council of Birmingham were against the Police Bill for that town, the whole town-council of Manchester were to a man in favour of this bill. As regarded the petition which had been presented by the noble Lord opposite, the fact was, that out of a population of 280,000, that petition had been got up almost entirely by Conservatives; and as the mayor and every one of his colleagues, freely chosen by a large majority of the inhabitants, were in favour of this bill, he could not refuse to give them his vote and sanction. He certainly wished to see the police in every town in the hands of its corporation; but when he found every one of the Manchester town-council saying they wished for this bill, as a temporary means of preserving the peace of the community—and particularly when he referred to what had so lately taken place, with a view of inducing the people to leave their work at the factories — he thought the House was called upon to support the measure, because, by supporting the bill, they were, in fact, supporting the corporation.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, the House was placed in a situation of difficulty between the speeches of the hon. Members for Westbury and Kilkenny. But he looked to the petition as emanating from men of all parties, signed by 7,200 rate-payers, composed of men of all shades of politics, Tories, and Radicals, and Whigs, if such things could be found in Manchester. The noble Lord laboured under a most extravagant delusion in supposing that the opponents of this bill were indifferent to the loss of human life. He never heard any one in that House say that the loss of life was unimportant. He declared freely that it was the duty of the Ministry and of the House, to preserve the peace and
 258
 Sir R. Price  was surprised at the speech of the hon. Member for Liskeard. A few days since he exclaimed against the Government for having the support of hon. Gentlemen opposite, and now he very readily votes with them himself. He thought the House would assume a fearful resposibility in rejecting the measure, which he believed to be both necessary and constitutional, and which he earnestly entreated the House not to be so foolish as to throw out.
 Sir C. Grey : According to the old constitutional law of the country, the police were held to be appointed by the Crown. Everybody knew that the old constabulary force was appointed by the magistrates, and the magistrates held their commissions from the Crown. That was the general principle; but there were exceptions, as in the case of town councils having charters with a  ne intromittant
 Mr. Fielden  considered the bill entirely a party measure, brought forward for the purpose of giving strength to the charter. The passing of it would only kindle dissatisfaction into a flame. If the
 259
  Sir F. Trench  rose to bring forward his motion:
 To call the attention of the House to the experiments submitted to the Bude Light Committee, and to move, that the lustres be furnished with candles, short threes to the pound, instead of long threes, which give no more light than six to the pound, and which, therefore, defeat the intention of making a fair comparison between the power of the wax light and Bude light." 261
 Sir R. Inglis  thought the House greatly indebted to his hon. and gallant Friend for the trouble he had taken in the matter, and for the improvements he had introduced in the lighting of the House.
 Sir R. Inglis : When this bill was before the House a few days since, he distinctly stated that he would give no opinion on its merits either for or against. It had been, indeed, brought early into the other House of Parliament, but in the committee of that House its provisions had been materially altered: and, since that alteration, there had been no time to circulate the bill in the country. A great majority of those whose social condition would be essentially affected by the measure, were, accordingly, wholly ignorant of its provisions as it had been sent down from the other House, and it would, therefore, be most unjust to the great body of the clergy to press the bill forward this Session. He should not, however, be tempted to enter into any premature discussion. All that he asked was, that sufficient time should be given to the parties whose interests would be affected by this bill to make themselves properly acquainted with its provisions, the same as would be given to others—to soap-boilers, for instance, or any other class of the community. He merely wished that the clergy should receive the same protection and the same opportunity of obtaining information, as would be given to other parties whose interests might be affected by the provisions of any particular bill. He thought it most objectionable to submit the offences of the clergy in all cases to a lay tribunal, and to the judgment of persons not only not in communion with the Church, but perhaps directly opposed to its doctrines and government. That was
 263
 Lord G. Somerset  observed, that he thought the clauses from 1 to 6 did not, with sufficient clearness and force, enjoin the high constable to carry the orders which he might receive, into full operation. He admitted that this objection was rather technical than substantial. Another objection to a matter of detail which struck his mind was this, that the constables under the bill would wholly supersede the parochial constables. Though he did not think parochial constables the best possible force, he still thought it desirable that the power of summoning them should continue to exist, in order that they might be made available in the absence of the police constables. With respect to the rules and regulations, he fully concurred in the expediency of leaving the Home-office in possession of complete executive powers; at the same time, it was only right that the magistrates in the several counties should be permitted to express to the Home Secretary the view which they took of those regulations before Government should finally adopt them. On these points he wished to understand what course the noble Lord intended to pursue.
 Lord J. Russell  did not think the provisions of the bill, particularly as regarded the rules to be made by the Secretary of
 264
 Mr. O'Connell  had stated fifty-three families, but had been reported as having said 253.
 Mr. O'Connell  expressed his determination to oppose the bill by every means in his power. He moved, as an amendment, the "order of the second reading of the Poddle River, Dublin, Bill." He thought he might appeal to the Chancellor of the Exchequer himself, whether the House was now in the situation it ought to be, in order to discuss so important a question to the trade and commerce of Ireland. The House was now thin, and before going into committee, the dinner hour would have arrived, and he would appeal to hon. Members whether it would not then require all the influence that Ministers could exert to keep forty Members in the House. Nearly 600 of the Members had left town, and he would submit, therefore, that it was unjust to the people of Ireland to force the bill forward. No reason had been stated why the bill had not been brought forward sooner. The report on which it was
 266 No, no Name! 267 l.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he had to give a positive contradiction to the statement made by the hon. and learned Member on the authority of Mr. Staunton. No such thing ever occurred. Never, since the commencement of the proceedings on this bill, or at any other time, had the Bank of Ireland refused good bills from political motives.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he should resist the postponement of the bill. Hon. Gentlemen knew the facility at present of ready communication with Ireland; and when he stated that it was now upwards of one month since the bill was first Introduced, or rather since his statement on
 268 l. s. d.
 Mr. Hume  said, if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would state that only to be his intention, all opposition would be withdrawn. He never knew a proceeding of so much importance brought forward in the manner this had been. There was no precedent in the history of Parliamentary proceedings for the course which the right hon. Gentleman had taken. He was asked by the hon. Member for Dublin, why he did not bring it forward sooner, and could give no reason whatever. Within ten days of the meeting of Parliament, he put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, respecting joint stock banks, and he had repeated the question until it became a laughing matter whenever the subject was mentioned. On two occasions the right hon. Gentleman answered, within fourteen days." That being the case, he trusted that the House would not consent to discuss so important a matter at this late period of
 269
 Sir W. Somerville  had been taken by surprise by the bill, and his constituents had been taken by surprise. He had been given to understand by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that this monopoly was not to be renewed in all its force. He was in a condition to prove, that he entertained that opinion, and that the right hon. Member knew that he entertained that opinion. His constituents were under that impression, and the right hon. Member knew it. As he knew nothing of the present bill till about three weeks ago, he asked, was it fair in this hurried manner to thrust a bill of this kind through the House before the people of Ireland had had the opportunity of considering it? As he knew he should appeal to the right hon. Gentleman in vain, he would appeal to Gentlemen of all parties around them to lay aside the merits of the question, and, on the grounds that he had stated, to refuse to go into committe.
 Mr. Redington  expressed his surprise, that the right hon. Gentleman should bring forward such a bill at this period of the Session. It had gone on too fast already, and he should do all in his power to oppose it.
 Mr. D. Browne  had been requested by his constituents to give his most stringent opposition to this bill. He did not think it right, at so late a period of the Session, to smuggle so important a measure through the House, before the people had had the opportunity of petitioning against it. Under all the circumstances, the bill had very much the appearance of being a job, and the supporters of it seemed ashamed of it.
 Mr. T. Attwood  said, the fact was, the right hon. Gentleman was in debt to the Bank of Ireland two millions and a half, and there were, therefore, two millions and a half of reasons why he should proceed as he did in this singular and ill-timed way. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was not a free agent in this business, for he was dealing with his creditor. If the right hon. Gentleman would pay his debts to the Bank of England and to the Bank of Ireland, he would be able to his duty to the country and to his Sovereign; but now he was literally legislating in fetters. He should oppose this measure by all the means in his power.
 Mr. O'Connell  felt it his duty to take
 271 272
 Mr. Gisborne  could not understand why the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, should think this such a light matter as not to be worthy of discussion. The course of the right hon. Gentleman on this subject had been somewhat devious, and he should wish to pursue it through some of its windings. That right hon. Gentleman had been chairman of a committee appointed to inquire into this subject, and the report of that committee he should presume, had been drawn up by the chairman. In that report it was stated, that one of the subjects to be inquired into, was the expediency or inexpediency of the privileges of the bank being continued; that the committee were of opinion the 1st of Victoria Chap 39, should be renewed for one year, and that Parliament should be placed in such a situation as to be free to adopt in the next Session, such legislative measures as on deliberation might seem to be most expedient. That having been the recommendation of the committee, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the 16th of July, when the assizes were coming, and three-fifths of the Members had paired off and gone out of town, announced his intention of renewing the monopoly of the Bank of Ireland. Many Irish Members were absent, and out of the whole 105 Irish Members, there were only two in the House who supported the Chancellor of the Exchequer—the right hon. the learned Recorder for Dublin, and the hon. Member for Antrim, but who were not regular supporters of the Government. If the argument of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in favour of the monopoly to be conferred by
 273
 Mr. Clay  wished to take this opportunity of referring to some statements made by him on a former occasion on the subject of banking in America, because those statements had been impugned, and because he believed that the House at that time thought the arguments to be drawn from the experience of America were not so important as they really were. It would be in the recollection of the House, that in answer to the arguments of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, who asserted that there could be no over-issues with a free trade in banking, with banks issuing in competition one with another, all being liable to pay notes, at the will of the holder, in specie—it would be recollected, that in answer to that statement, he referred to the example of America, where the system of free banking existed. The hon. Member for Wolverhampton endeavoured to show that there was no analogy, because the currency laws of America were not similar to those of England. Now, if it were true, that there was any essential difference in the laws which regulated the currency of America and this country, then the argument which he drew from the analogy of the two countries would fall to the ground. But the statements of the two hon. Members were founded on complete misapprehension. If there was any difference, it was in the greater stringency of the law of America. The banks of America, neglecting to pay on demand, were chargeable with 24 per cent, interest. The mode in which the interest was enforced was this. An action of assumpsit was brought, and on judgment being obtained, execution issued not only against chattels, but against land. The result was, that in the United States, where joint-stock banks were conducted on the soundest principles, the most remarkable over-issue ever known in the commercial world did take
 274 l., l., l.; l., l., l. 275 Hear, Hear 276
 Mr. Shaw  would take that opportunity of alluding to a petition presented by the hon. and learned Gentleman, from certain parties, complaining that the Bank of Ireland had refused to reimburse them for certain notes which had been stolen and destroyed. The amount of notes stolen was 500 l., l. l.
 Mr. Hume  thought this question should not be disposed of by paltry details of this kind. The argument of the hon. Member for Carlow was a good one, inasmuch as it went to show, that a question of this importance was discussed in a House of only seventy-two Members. What was wanted was no exclusion or monopoly, but the same privileges for the people of Ireland, that the people of Scotland possessed. They wanted the same facilities in the negotiation of bills, and to remove the gross injustice that at present existed. Why, he would ask, was Ireland for five years to have inflicted upon her that which was admitted to be an injustice, and one that must be remedied at the expiration of that period? The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets was altogether wrong in his facts with respect to the Bank of England, and he was equally so with respect to the Bank of Ireland. In Scotland, and every country where there was free and open banking, the variation of the
 277
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that although he did not mean to undervalue the arguments of the hon. Gentlemen who were opposed to this bill, he could not re-discuss a matter which had been so fully discussed on two previous occasions. Indeed, even if he were to do so, he could only repeat the arguments which he had already used. He must, however, say a few words with respect to the present measure, and he begged hon. Gentlemen to understand, that he supported this arrangement, not because it was the best possible arrangement which could be made—far from it; but what he wished to impress upon the House was, that if they did not accept the present measure, the probability was, that they would have a worse system of banking in Ireland than it provided. It had been said that this bill would operate injuriously to the joint-stock banks; but go far from this being the case, the only effect it could have, would be to relieve these banks from disabilities, and extend to them privileges which they did not now possess. This being the object of the measure, it might be asked why he did not carry that object further; but his reply was, because he did not think he could do so with safety. He had gone as far as he
 278 279 l. l., l, 280 l. l., l., l.; l. l.: l. l.; l.; l. l. 281
 Mr. O'Connell  in explanation, said, that although he had referred to the Post-office revenue in a former debate, he had not done so that night. He had, however, shown an increase of prosperity outside the circle and a diminution inside. In some instances this increase amounted to twenty-five per cent. The utmost increase at Drogheda was twelve per cent., while in other places within the circle there was a diminution of three per cent., so that the argument of the right hon. Gentleman was of very little value. He was not there as an individual connected with the National Bank, but he thought the right hon. Gentleman had no right to use his official information for the purpose, as he had done, of tarnishing the credit of any banking establishment. He said, that the National Bank would have failed in 1836, but for the assistance it obtained from the
 282 l., l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  in explanation, said he had made no such statement as that which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had attributed to him. He had not alluded to any particular bank; but what he had said was, that the Bank of Ireland had, in 1836 given important assistance to the various joint-stock banks of that country. From the means of knowledge which he possessed, he said he believed, that if that assistance had not been afforded, these banks must have failed. He stated, that the whole accommodation given by the Bank of Ireland to the joint-stock banks was 270,000 l., l.
 Mr. Redington  said, that they had gained something from the right hon. Gentleman, and that was, that this measure was to be discussed merely as a matter of science. He believed that the people of Ireland were not aware of the nature of the right hon. Gentleman's proposition; and although petitions had been presented on the subject, they were against the renewal of the bank charter, and could not have had reference to this measure. The fact of but two partners being found to belong to the bank alluded to by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, showed that the people of Ireland were not inclined to enter wildly, or without deliberation, into those speculations. He was opposed to perpetuating a monopoly that had been anything but a service to Ireland. With respect to the assistance given to the joint-stock banks at the period of the crisis, it should be recol-
 283
 Mr. Ellis  claimed the indulgence of the House whilst he offered a few observations with respect to that bill. He complained of the late period of the Session at which it had been brought forward, and he did not think that the Chancellor of the Exchequer's arguments sufficiently answered the objections, for they had seen that, upon several occasions, the Government had not made a House, when it was well known they might have done so if they pleased; and they should have done something towards bringing it forward at an earlier period of the Session. The right hon. Gentleman had stated, that the people of Ireland had received sufficient notice of the intention of the Government to bring forward this bill. They might, it is true, have had notice of that intention, but they had no information whatever as to the provisions and details of the bill. The right hon. Gentleman had stated, that the people of Ireland would be afforded the fullest opportunity of ascertaining what the provisions of the bill would be, and to-judge of their probable effects. Then he (Mr. Ellis) thought they ought not to proceed with it, until they should have ascertained what the opinions were in respect to it—to ascertain what the result of the meetings upon that subject, which were to be held in Ireland, would be. The Bank of Ireland possessed vast and exclusive privileges, and they had sometimes exercised them in a harsh and severe manner. He knew an instance where a gentleman presented a bill, upon one of the first houses in Scotland at the Bank of Ireland, and it was refused, because the person presenting it had been known to have taken an active part against the Bank of Ireland monopoly. The bill was afterwards discounted. The hon. Gentleman then went into a statement of the assets of the Bank of Ireland, and read several extracts of evidence, to show the difference between the practice of the Bank of England and that of the Bank of Ireland. The towns of Newry, Dundalk, and Drogheda, he continued, which were important towns, and were within the metropolitan circle, were subjected to peculiar injustice from that monopoly, for their commercial transactions were with England and Scot-
 284
 Sir W. Someville  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not stand alone in the bill, for Lord Melbourne had stated to a deputation, that the Government intended to bring forward such a bill. With respect to those who opposed it in Ireland, he could assure the right hon. Gentleman, that all parties in the town, which he had the honour to represent, were opposed to her Majesty's Government in their views on that subject.
 Mr. O'Connell  would take the sense of the House upon that question, for he felt that the people of Ireland had not been afforded a sufficient opportunity of discussing the provisions of the bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it appeared useless any longer to oppose the question of reporting progress, and he would, therefore, consent to it; but at the same time he regretted exceedingly that such a precedent should be established.
 Mr. O'Connell  rejoined, that under any circumstances, he would give every opposition to the progress of the bill in his power, that time might be gained for a still stronger expression of opinion against it.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the motion at so late an hour.
 Mr. W. Williams  moved the adjournment of the House.
 Mr. Shaw  begged leave, before the House proceeded to the business of the evening, to read a statement which ha had received from Mr. Robert Owen, agent to the Earl of Courtown, explanatory of certain proceedings which had taken place in the noble Earl's estate. He thought it only fair to the noble Earl to do so, as his conduct had been impugned in that House:—
 "The townland of Coonogue, in the county of Carlow, was let about seventy years ago to one tenant: it consists of between 200 and 300 acres of very poor mountain land. The lessee made several sublettings and divisions of it, and at the time the lease expired, about October, 1837, this townland was found cut up into nearly forty farms, or rather wretched holdings, occupied by mere paupers. These under-tenants had been recognised by Lord Courtown or his agents, and they were given distinctly to understand, that they could not be suffered to continue on the lands when the lease expired. From October, 1837, until the beginning of June in the present year, they were allowed to occupy. Every indulgence and allowance was made to them to provide for themselves elsewhere, and then selection was made by which twelve families out of about thirty (not 220, as stated by Mr. O'Connell) were to continue at least for some time longer on the lands, and the remainder were to be removed. A very ample allowance being made to them for future provision, they all professed, themselves, with one exception, fully satisfied with this arrangement; but on the sheriff going to the lands in June, an immense mob assembled, the tenants refused to give possession; the proceedings of the mob were violent in the extreme, and the sub-sheriff was deterred from executing the  habere. 265
 The Solicitor-General  said, that he felt no objection to take whatever course might be most acceptable to the majority of the House; it did appear to him, however, that the object of disqualifying constables from voting in their own districts could not be fully accomplished, unless they were also disqualified from voting in those which were immediately adjoining.
 Mr. D'Israeli  had opposed this bill on its original stages, although he had offered no factious opposition. Now that the measure had arrived at its last stage, he thought he was justified in entering his protest against it, and dividing the House against its passing. Her Majesty's Government, and those who supported this measure, seemed to have taken up the view, that the first and sole duty of a police was to maintain order; but he (Mr. D'Israeli) apprehended, that, in a free country like England, there was a co-ordinate duty for a police, and that was, not merely to maintain order, but to respect liberty. He could not bring himself to believe that the rural police, as it was proposed to constitute the body by this bill, and as it had been brought into operation in some districts already, could fulfil both those duties. He wished to call the attention of the House to a document, which seemed to have been studiously kept out of sight in the course of the discussion on this bill—the Report of the Commissioners of Inquiry into the State of the Constabulary Force of the Country. There were some curious details in the evidence annexed to that report, which he thought it was the duty of the House not to overlook, clearly showing what must be the character of a rural police formed upon the principles of this bill. It was proved, that the practice of the police, in those rural districts where the force had been called into existence, was to enter cottages, and order lights to be extinguished, because, according to one of the witnesses examined, cottagers had no right to have lights to serve as signals
 357 358
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as the bill was for the public interest, he was determined to persevere with it. This was what he was determined to do; for, until the measure were disposed of on its merits, and by way of fair argument,
 359
 Mr. Ellis  hoped the House would persevere in its opposition, and lay down the principle, that no Minister should ever attempt to take that House by surprise, and inflict serious injury on Ireland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I beg to contradict the hon. Gentleman in the most distinct manner I can.
 Mr. O'Connell : And I beg to contradict the right hon. Gentleman in the most distinct manner I can. ( Cries of "Order!" "Chair
 Mr. Ellis : I rise to order. ("Chair!" "Order!") I rise most distinctly to deny the right hon. Gentleman's assertion. The right hon. Gentleman has told the hon. Member to adhere to the rules of the House, and now he has broken them himself.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he had been taunted for not having the House full; he should do all he could to have the House full. It was said that by postponing this measure the Bank of Ireland would continue; he admitted it. It was said there would be no inconvenience from this—
 Mr. Finch : I rise to order. I think I see a gentleman under the gallery taking notes.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, there was no power of taking notes at all in the House. If the objection of the hon. Member were to taking notes, it would extend to other parties in the House. Unquestionably, persons below the Bar of the House were considered as out of Parliament. If the act of taking notes were objected to, the gentlemen in the gallery taking notes must be objected to.
 Mr. Finch  said, the right hon. Gentleman had not made the distinction between the cases, which must be obvious to every Gentleman in the House. His objection was not to the gentlemen in the gallery taking notes, but to individuals under the gallery taking notes. That course was not the proper one. He saw on the other side the hon. Member for Oxford University, to whose opinion, in questions of this kind, he paid the greatest deference, and to whom he would appeal, and he thought he should have his support.
 Sir R. Inglis  was not prepared to give an opinion upon it. The objection, ac-
 361
 Mr. Finch  said, he believed the proper; course in this matter must rather rest with another Gentleman, who usually sat at the other end of the House (we believe the Serjeant-at-Arms); therefore, having called the attention of the House to it, he had done.
 Sir T. Fremantle  believed the hon. Gentleman was under a mistake. He believed, it was as consistent for the strangers sitting at one end of the House to take notes as for the strangers sitting at the other.
 Mr. Baring  believed the old practice was for strangers to take notes in the old gallery for strangers. He did not know that they had given any particular privilege to any one part of the House.
 Mr. Finch  hoped it would be understood, that any gentleman who went below the Bar in the strangers' part of the House, might in future be permitted to take notes.
 Mr. O'Connell  resumed. Never had there been a more gross neglect of duty than the non-service of the notice on the Bank. He had not called for petitions on this subject from the city of Dublin, because he had not time to do so. The country was in a sad state; he believed it was never in a worse state, financial and political, and the right hon. Gentleman seemed disposed to revenge all this upon unfortunate Ireland; like the man who, finding himself embarrassed in the world, went home and beat his wife and children. The hon. and learned Member proceeded to explain the causes which had kept away some Irish Members. Whilst he accounted for their absence, he might taunt the right hon. Gentleman with bringing forward the measure at so late a period. From first to last he had been in fault; he was in fault for keeping the people of Ireland in ignorance for twelve months; he was in fault for not bringing in the measure sooner, and the arguments which he had used damaged his own case. He should move that the Chairman report progress,—House counted out.
 Mr. O'Connell  felt called upon to say, that such a measure was too important to be proceeded with at 12 o'clock; and on the question that it be then proceeded with, he was resolved to take the sense of the House.
 Sir T. Fremantle  wished to know, if her Majesty's Government seriously intended to go on with the bill? He was sure the House must agree with him that the proceedings which took place yesterday and the day before, were not creditable to the Queen's Government. The right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was not now in his place, had intimated his intention of going on with the bill. That right hon. Gentleman must, of course, be the beat judge of whether Parliament ought, at the present season of the year, be kept sitting for such a purpose. If he thought that the Session should be so continued, then surely the Government ought to take the proper means for securing a sufficient attendance of Members. Whatever course Ministers thought proper to pursue, it was essential that there should be a distinct understanding upon the subject. If it were proposed to proceed with the bill as a Cabinet measure, it should have his support; but to go on as they had been proceeding for some time past, was merely giving a daily triumph to the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and placing themselves in a ridiculous position.
 Mr. Ellis  regretted that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not then in his place, in order that they might have some clear understanding upon the subject, He had
 371
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that he had nothing to take away from, or add to, what his right hon. Friend had already stated upon the subject. As to their not having made a House yesterday, he could only say that which every person present knew to be the fact, that the sole cause of such an occurrence, was the mistake which had taken place with respect to the commission not having been issued sufficiently early. There were Members enough; they might, if they thought proper, have made a House in Parliament-street.
 Sir R. Inglis  observed, that there was only one member of the Cabinet present when the House was counted out, and of the Members then present, not a fourth part were usually supporters of the Government. His hon. Friend near him had said, that he would support the bill if it were made a Cabinet measure; in that he fully concurred, and he must say that unless he received from a member of the Cabinet a distinct intimation that it was to be made a Government bill, and that it was to be supported with the whole strength of the Administration, he for one should not be at the trouble of coming there to give it a support which would not be of much avail. He thought that they ought to be told whether the measure was to be a bill supported by Government or brought in by an individual.
 Mr. Gisborne  thought the case appeared to be like one of assault, and the question was, who struck the first blow. In his opinion, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had struck the first blow, by bringing in the bill contrary to agreement, and at an unseasonable time; he therefore could not condemn the steps taken to defeat it, and thought counting out the House was a fair proceeding.
 Mr. Wakley  said, it was utterly impossible that the bill could pass into a law this year, and he believed that it ought not to pass into a law. He had heard no reason for pressing the bill on the House, in the unseemly manner it had been
 372
 The Solicitor-General  said, the only question was, whether they should proceed with the bill at 12 o'clock or at 4. The bill must come on at some time on Monday, and he thought it would be more convenient that it should come on at the earliest period. He therefore hoped the hon. and learned Member would not press his opposition, because it could not answer any purpose.
 Mr. O'Connell  would yield at once, if he saw any disposition to do justice to his constituents. He heard Gentlemen on both sides of the House, talk very flippantly of the Government not overpowering the opposition to the bill by their numbers. Now he would put it to the House, whether anybody would talk in that way, if it were a question concerning the English people, and what would be said if in a case of that sort, any Irish Member were to get up and say to the Government, "Why don't you bring down your forces, and outvote these English members?" He would certainly persevere in his opposition, and would move as an amendment, that the bill be committed that day three months.
 Mr. Kemble  observed, that no one had recommended any overpowering of the opposition to the bill; it had merely been observed, that it was too much to expect that a Government measure should mainly depend for its support on Members of that House who were wholly unconnected with the Administration. The question now before them, was a choice between 12 o'clock and 4. He thought, that if the object of the hon. and learned Member was to obtain a full attendance of Members, that attendance was as likely to be obtained at 12 as at 4 o'clock. But it was useless discussing the question in that desultory way, and the House had better divide at once.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to call the attention of the House to a practice recently adopted, and which he thought ought to be forthwith discontinued. For some days past, whenever any Member took notice that 40 Members were not present, a bell was rung, in order to apprise all who were within the building, that the Speaker was about to count the House. Anciently the practice was, that the Speaker should not permit business to proceed unless he saw that thirty-nine Members besides himself were actually within the walls of the House. He (Mr. O'Connell) did not mean to impose a duty on the present Speaker, which his predecessors, with the
 388
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that the hon. Member who spoke last confessed thus much—namely, that the practice was one of modern origin. He was as constant in his attendance as any Member, and he must say, that he had never heard of the practice till within the last four or five days.
 Mr. Duncombe's  motion fell to the ground.
 Mr. O'Connell  would move the next Order of the Day. The number of hon. Members forming her Majesty's Opposition was now nearly as great as the regular supporters of the Administration. Hon. Gentlemen opposite had assembled on purpose to support the Government on this bill, a very decided symptom of the character of the course which the Government were pursuing, a course highly favourable to the policy of hon. Gentlemen opposite, and most offensive to the people of Ireland. He was most averse to adopt anything like what might be considered an unfair and factious line of opposition, but knowing well the insuperable objections to this bill, he repeated, that if he should die on the floor of the House, this bill should not pass if they sat there till Christmas. He had pledged himself to his constituents—he had pledged himself to the country—not to allow any motion to be made without a discussion and a division. No man would be warranted in taking this course, if he was not right in the judgment of every rational person. If the bill had been brought in at the. beginning of the Session, and he
 391
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would not have taken any part in this preliminary discussion if it had not been for the direct question which had been put to him by the hon. Member for Carlow. That question was, whether he should feel disposed to enter upon a fair discussion of the circle of sixty-five miles. For answer, he needed only to remind the House of what he had said to a deputation of Irish Members, that he was perfectly ready to consider the question of boundary; but that he wished to know first of all whether it was intended to involve the question of issue. The answer he received was, that no alteration of the circle would be satisfactory, unless it was accompanied by a concession on the question of issue. He did not think, under all the circumstances, even if he were to accede to the suggestion of the hon. Member, that it would lead to a settlement, if he were to agree, for instance, to compromise, which would apply to Newry and other large towns, and still exclude Drogheda. If he thought otherwise, and could see that an arrangement could be effected by the suggestion of the hon. Member for Carlow, it would be far more agreeable for the Government to adopt it. He would now say a few words in answer to charges that had been made against the Government on this question. First of all, they had been accused of attempting to force this bill by means of an official majority. He had, in consequence, analysed the divisions, and found that, after abstracting the official Members, the sense of the House was in favour of the bill. The tone was now altered, and they were taunted with having the support of hon. Gentlemen opposite. He knew of no reason why hon. Gentlemen opposite should not support this measure, if they believed, as he did, that it was founded on correct principles. He did not think that a call of the House would now lead to a full attendance, and even if 300 Mem-
 394
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped the House would adjourn. It was impossible to do justice to the subject at that hour. Until the year 1823 or 1824, it was proper to observe that all Ireland was subject to the bank monopoly, when the sixty-five mile line was struck as a compromise. He did not think that shortening the duration of the bill—that limiting the time—would answer any good purpose. It was a mere mockery to think of effecting a compromise by merely shortening the time. He understood that they had something in the shape of an offer of compromise from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if they would consent to sacrifice Drogheda. [ 'No, no !'
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, two questions had been put to him—one as to circle, and the other as to time. Now, as to the extent of the circle, he felt that he could not maintain his exclusive principle of metropolitan issue if a competing bank was allowed in Drogheda. He was then charged with an intention to do Drogheda some particular injury; whereas, in fact, he refused to make any alteration as to Drogheda, lest it should be imagined that there had been a desire to do the town a particular injury. With respect to time, he had before stated, that he wished to make the arrangement with the Bank of Ireland contemporaneous with the arrangement with the Bank of England, that is, four years certain, subject to any further prolongation up to ten years more, unless Parliament interfered to prevent it. He had stated also, that it had been admitted by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, that, previous to the year 1844, it was necessary that the whole banking question should be maturely considered; and that it was necessary that this consideration should be given two Sessions at least before that period, He
 397
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that point would, perhaps, be better discussed to-morrow.
 Sir F. Freemantle  said, the right hon. Gentleman had not shown the earnestness which he anticipated, when he saw him come down attended by such a number of his colleagues. He thought the course now taken almost tantamount to the abandonment of the bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that no one could accuse him of want of earnestness in righting this measure. The ground which he had taken was perfectly satisfactory to himself; and as there was a measure of great importance to be brought forward to-night, he would not wish to mix it up with an impending debate, when it could not be discussed as it ought to be. * 399
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  intimated his readiness to agree to the amendment, seeing that, if he did not, the time would be occupied by divisions till the period when it was originally meant to adjourn (viz. three o'clock).
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  defended the bill. The matter having been referred to a Select Committee, composed of Gentlemen on both sides of the House, Dot one of whom were by office connected with the Government; and that committee having unanimously assented to the provisions of the bill, he trusted the House would see no difficulty in agreeing to the second reading.
 Mr. Harcourt  considered the measure to be called for, and he hoped, therefore, that it would meet with the sanction of the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I am quite aware that the subject I am about to introduce to the notice of the Committee is one of very great importance, but it is one also which it may not be very practicable to present to the House in a clear and distinct form. At the same time, I shall do
 400 l l l., l. Mr. Hume: l., l., l. l., l l. l., l., l. l. 401 
 
 Reduction of Supply Bills £4,479,200 
 Reduction of Irish Public Works 122,800 
 Reduction of West Indies 148,850 
 Reduction of Irish Tithes (proposed) 900,000 
 Reduction of Funding (proposed) 4,000,000 
 £9,650,850
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that when the hon. Member for Kilkenny intimated that with the present prices of the funds, they might have funded Exchequer-bills more advantageously than was proposed, he had not adverted to the prices of Exchequer-bills; but now he had an advantage by the depreciation of Exchequer-bills, which he should not have had when they were at 60 s. s. l. l.
 The Speaker  informed the hon. Baronet that his resolution was informal. The subject could not be gone into without a previous message from the Crown.
 The Speaker  said, the motion could not be entertained unless it properly came within the description of an amendment to the order of the day. Now, the only amendments which could regularly be moved to that was, that the House proceed to the other orders, or to some other order.
 The Speaker  said, there could be no doubt that the practice was modern. Complaint had been made by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that the business of the country was often delayed for want of forty Members being present, when, if the division bell were rung, a sufficient number to make a House would immediately attend. Upon which the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, suggested that it would be a convenience if on those occasions, the bell referred to were rung. The House appeared fully to concur with the noble Lord, and he gave directions accordingly. In doing this he conceived that he had been acting in obedience to the wishes of the House, and he was of course perfectly ready to obey any other
 389
 Mr. Callaghan  had expected that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have been able to convince him that he might support the measure; but in that expectation he had been disappointed. The right hon. Gentleman had utterly failed to show any reason why the bill should have been forced on at this period of the Session. If the bill had any principle, it was the principle of exclusiveness, which ought not to be supported by a liberal Government.
 Mr. Finch  thought, it was impolitic to fund Exchequer-bills in perpetual annuities. The difference between a perpetual annuity, and an annuity for ninety-nine years was so small, that it would not amount in its marketable value to more than one-half per cent. He did think, that adding to our national debt as they were year after year, there must come an end of this course of proceeding. It was for hon. Members to say whether such a system ought to be proceeded in. Had a contrary system been adopted, of granting annuities for shorter periods, they would have seen the termination of annuities every eight or ten years, and they would not fix generation after generation with the burdens which we now had to bear.
 Mr. Kemble  said, if there was any probability of a compromise, the House had better adjourn till four o'clock, and not divide at all.
 Mr. Herries  expressed his regret that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not brought forward this very important subject at an earlier period of the Session, when a greater number of Members would have been present, and the subject might have been discussed with more effect. He did not think, that the reasons assigned by the right hon. Gentleman for not reducing the unfunded debt at an earlier period of the Session were satisfactory. He had no objection to the terms declared by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on this occasion, nor to the mode of competition he had adopted. He regretted most sincerely, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not met with more success, but hoped that the termination of the experiment would be more favourable. He thought the right hon. Gentleman should have told the House something of the means by which he proposed to meet this addition to the permanent debt of the country. It was true, that there was on the Table an account, by which it appeared that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, from the calculates then made, estimated a surplus of 139,000 l. l., l., 418
 Mr. John O'Connell  moved that the debate be adjourned till four o'clock.
 Mr. O'Connell  moved, that the debate be adjourned till five o'clock.
 Mr. O'Connell  moved that the debate be adjourned till to-morrow. He frankly admitted his object was delay. "Sufficient unto the day was the evil thereof," and he wished to finish the evil for to-day.
 Mr. Hume  said, in reference to the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman, as to the offer of competition, he was satisfied that the course which had been adopted was the best, both as regarded the public, and the holders of Exchequer bills. Although it was true that, in the last transaction, the public mind, with regard to
 414 l. 415
 Mr. Hume  admitted, that the feeling of the House was against him, and therefore would not divide.
 Mr. Hume  must continue to object to the bill, and moved that it be read a second time this day three months.
 Mr. Hume  would take the opportunity of denying, that the committee had objected to Mr. Gurney's experiment being paid for by the public. On the contrary, the committee had provided for the payment of every farthing. While on the subject, he would observe, that a man more single-minded, or more anxious for the advancement of science, than Mr. Gurney, did not exist. The hon. Member read several testimonials in favour of the Bude-light, from the evidence given before the committee.
 Mr. Dillon Browne  seconded the amendment. This measure had been resisted by every independent Irish representative, by men of the highest condition in the country, and there had not been a single independent vote from Ireland in support of the monopoly. The Government were now hurrying this measure through the House, although they knew they owed their existence to the support
 392
 Mr. Hutton  had hitherto supported the bill, as he was opposed to allowing Joint-stock Banks the power of issuing small notes. But as he had no hopes now of getting his views discussed, he must oppose the motion for going into committee on the bill.
 Mr. R. Steuart  believed, that the observations and motion which the House had just heard, arose out of a misapprehension. The practice to which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin alluded, was one which had not arisen within the last three or four days; on the contrary, two months ago a general wish was expressed on both sides, that some such mode of giving notice that the House was about to be counted, should be afforded to Members who at the time might happen to be in other parts of the building. He could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the practice had not been resorted to for the first time in reference to the bill then under their consideration. The bell, as the House knew, was rung by direction of the Speaker.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  moved, that in the opinion of the House, the presence of forty Members was necessary for the transaction of business. The present state of the House was not only discreditable, but disgraceful. The original in-
 390
 Mr. Gisborne  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had shown a disposition to meet the opposition in point of time, but that was not satisfactory to the hon. and learned Gentleman. Then there was the question of distance, on which he thought the right hon. Gentleman was not inaccessible to compromise. The whole point, then, that remained, was as to the town of Drogheda; and the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not object to its having a free banking, but free issue. The right hon. Gentleman must be aware that the one was completely involved in the other.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, there was a clause in the bill, if ever they should arrive at it, which proposed to continue the monopoly of exclusive issue to the Bank of Ireland, for a circle of sixty-five miles round Dublin. When that clause came to be discussed, it might appear that a majority of Members were opposed to that clause, and,
 393
 Mr. Wakley  thought that his hon. and learned Friend ought to carry his motion one step further. He ought to prohibit the ringing of the bell upon divisions. It appeared to him most mischievous, that hon. Members should come down there to vote upon a question without having heard one word of the discussion. He hoped that the House would agree to extending the rule to divisions. On several divisions respecting the Poor-law Amendment Act, which recently took place, a large proportion of the Members who voted, came down from Mr. Bellamy's for that purpose, and had not heard a syllable of the debate.
 Sir C. Douglas  said he should like to know how the Government intended to carry out this bill, if the hon. and learned Gentleman persisted in his opposition?
 Sir F. Trench  moved the following Resolution:—
 " That it is the opinion of this House, that the expenses of the experiments made under the direction of the Bude-light committee, ought to be paid by the Treasury, and that Mr. Gurney should receive such remuneration as the Lords of the Treasury may deem an adequate compensation for the devotion of his time and talents to the service of this House; and that it is unbecoming the dignity of Parliament, that his remuneration should be dependent on the success or failure of experiments made by order of a committee of this House."
 Sir F. Trench  withdrew his resolution.
 Captain Pechell  thought the bill necessary and just, and said, he should give the Chancellor of the Exchequer his support through all its stages.
 Mr. Easthope  thought it would be a most expedient and wise determination, if the right hon. Gentleman were to limit the duration of the bill to a period of two years instead of four years, as was proposed at present. As the whole question must be fully discussed and investigated in two years, and that such discussion and investigation would occupy two Sessions, would it not greatly aid the permanent and satisfactory settlement of the question if the bill were limited to that period? Within that time ample opportunity would be given for examining the subject in all its bearings. He knew of no good reason for putting off the consideration of a question, under the weight of which the country was now groaning. What was the chief cause of the distress under which the country was suffering, but the disarrangement which had taken place in all our monetary principles. They should adopt that course which would lead to a full investigation of the subject at the earliest possible period. There were few reflecting men in the whole kingdom who did not consider that the greatest danger affecting the public interests was involved in the question of the issue of paper money. He thought that the House should limit this bill to a duration of two years, and begin their inquiries at the earliest possible period next Session. He trusted the sense of the House would go along with him in the propriety of limiting the lime of the continuance of the Charter of the Bank of Ireland to a shorter period than the expiration of the Charter of the Bank of England, in order to force an inquiry into the whole matter early next Session, which could not fail of being attended with great public advantage. It would.
 395
 Sir J. R. Reid  was quite satisfied that the conduct pursued by the Bank on this occasion would meet with general approbation, perhaps with the approbation of every man in that House except the hon. Member for Kilkenny. He had no hesitation in declaring that he thought their conduct had been most liberal. With respect to a point adverted to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he availed himself of this opportunity of stating distinctly what had been already said by the right hon. Gentleman, that no communication whatever, private or otherwise, had passed between that right hon. Gentleman and any members of the Bank of England. The decision of the Bank had been come to without any communication with the right hon. Gentleman. He wished this to be clearly understood, as he would take the present opportunity of reading a few words from a very influential journal that was in the habit almost every day of running down the conduct of the Bank. The article he alluded to appeared in  The Times 416 "The part taken by the Governor and Deputy Governor of the Bank of England during the meeting at the Treasury, has not escaped notice and animadversion in the city. They made an offer on the part of that corporation, towards which they stand in the character of trustees as well as managers, which was altogether an improvident one with regard to the slate of the market at the time when the offer was made, and may take their choice of being supposed negligent of, or incompetent to, that trust, or of acting in subservience to a Ministry whose good will they imagine it essential to cultivate, with a view to the renewal of the charter. They even went, in their zeal, beyond what was necessary for that time-serving spirit." 417
 Sir R. Inglis  supported the second reading. He believed if a proposition had been made to pay a sum of 5,000 l.
 Sir R. Inglis  had been accustomed, from the force of early education and habits, always to support the Government of the Crown for the time being, and it gave him great pain when he found himself obliged to act differently. He had frequently supported her Majesty's Government during the present Session, but it would be impossible to carry on the public business if hon. Gentlemen should continue the course of opposition which they had commenced with regard to this measure. One day they had a speech hot, the next day it was served cold, the day following it was hashed. They had the same arguments, not merely day after day, but in the morning sittings and evening sittings, in committee and in the House, in every variety of form. He thought the number of Members present quite sufficient to discharge the duties which they were called upon to do, and he trusted the House would not be forced to a division again, The Ministry had com-
 396
 Sir T. Fremantle  however unwillingly, felt it his duty to express his deep regret, that a subject of such immense importance should have been brought forward so late in the Session. He regretted that the right hon. Gentleman had not been suc-
 419 l. l. l l. l. 420
 Sir W. Somerville : The renewal of the charter for four years would be quite sufficient to destroy the prosperity of Drogheda. The Branch of the Bank of Ireland there was quite inadequate to supply the demands of the merchants, and the consequence was, that they were obliged to apply to other places for their discounts— to Liverpool, and even Scotland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  took that opportunity of stating, that, in consequence of the early hour at which the House rose last night, they had not yet on their Table a bill which, he understood, had passed the Lords, with amendments. It was, nevertheless, of the greatest possible importance to the public service that the bill in question—he meant the Slave-trade Suppression Bill—should pass with
 439
 Mr. O'Connell  would take the same opportunity to call the attention of the House and the public to a fact which he had seen stated in the newspapers this morning—he meant the conspiracy elsewhere distinctly stated to exist between the Portuguese Slave-traders to make such arrangements, by having a pipe of poisoned nine on the deck, and also by poisoning the water on board, as should cause the death of the British crews who chanced, on capturing a vessel, to partake of the one or the other. It was impossible sufficiently to express indignation at such diabolical atrocity. But he apprehended that the Government, having received information to that effect, were bound, not only to inform the public of the discovery, but to apply to the Court of Portugal to prosecute those who were guilty of so infamous a conspiracy. It was impossible any country could be so barbaric in its code as not to have some means of prosecuting the miscreants who could be guilty of such a crime. He was sure he expressed the sentiments of the whole country, when he confidently anticipated that the Government would call upon Portugal to put the facts in a train of investigation, and adopt the most prompt and decisive measures for bringing to punishment those who were guilty of so horrible a conspiracy.
 Mr. Aglionby  wished the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Solicitor-general, or the hon. Member for Lambeth, to explain what those amendments were. They had not been printed, and his only knowledge of them was obtained from the newspapers of the day.
 The Solicitor-General : The amendments might be stated under two heads: the first referred to the third clause of the bill, giving the magistrates retiring salaries,
 440
 The Solicitor-General  said, the Lords had done nothing. The law remained precisely the same as formerly, giving an appeal in all cases where imprisonment exceeded one month, and the penalties 3 l
 Mr. Pryme  stated, that the hon. Member for East Kent had moved in the com-
 446
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that considerable misconception appeared to prevail in the mind of his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, respecting the provisions of this bill. His hon. Friend's observations were quite inapplicable to the real facts of the case. If this bill were to be rejected, and a continuing bill were to be introduced, as his hon. Friend advised, all the objections which had been urged against the present defectiveness of the police system, would remain n full force. In the bill, as it passed the House of Commons, the salaries of the police magistrates were increased with a view to obtain a better administration of justice, through the hands of professional men of learning and experience, than could be obtained from the services of some of those who were now employed by the Government as police magistrates, but whom he would not allude to by name, as they were not present to defend themselves. The clause granting that increase of salary, was coupled with another clause, enabling the Crown to supersede, at its discretion, certain magistrates upon retired allowances of a limited amount. The latter clause had been rejected by the Lords; and, therefore, to a certain extent, the public would not obtain the benefit which the bill as it passed the Commons was calculated to give them. But there were two circumstances which his hon. Friend had overlooked. In the first place, all the existing magistrates held their offices during pleasure; but that circumstance would not justify the Crown in removing them, so
 448
 Mr. Pryme  said, that his right hon. Friend and colleague had just shown that he had not listened to his speech on the subject of grand juries, for, if he had listened to that speech, he would have known that the abolition of the functions of a grand jury would not impair, but strengthen the functions of a petty jury.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that her Majesty's Ministers had not till very recently received the recommendation of two committees that some of the present magistrates should be set aside. If, therefore, they had set them aside without such a good cause, they would have been accused of removing the magistrates from improper motives. By the present bill they would be authorized to remove the magistrates, and to procure in their room legal gentlemen of greater competency.
 Mr. O'Connell  remarked, that the noble Lord had attributed to him what he did not say; he did not say, that the support of the Cabinet was not given to the Chancellor of the Exchequer; he was aware that the measure was supported by the Cabinet; but what he did say was, that not one Member of the Cabinet had spoken on the right hon. Gentleman's behalf. The noble Lord's interest in Ireland was known full well; it had been felt severely; and he at least ought not to have been the person to come forward upon the present occasion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said,
 453 454 455 l l l 456 l 457 l 458 pro formâ l
 Mr. O'Connell  disapproved so much of
 459 l l 460 461 462 463
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to correct a statement which he had made in the former part of the debate. He alluded to what he had said in reference to Mr. Guinness—namely, that he had voted against him on religious grounds. That Gentleman had seen a friend of his since that allegation had been made, and had declared that he had been guided by no such feeling. He, therefore, was quite willing to retract any observation which had fallen from him having such a tendency, and to express his belief that Mr. Guinness was incapable of proceeding as he had suggested.
 Mr. Law Hodges  opposed the motion, and said, that if the bill proposed were printed and circulated throughout the various counties, it would create great alarm. He thought, that it would be better to withhold the measure until the next Session.
 Mr. G. Palmer  opposed the principle of the bill. He was satisfied, that the majority of votes would be given for persons of comparatively very small property. The existence of boards of guardians, also,
 466
 Lord Eliot  said, the bill introduced two Sessions ago by the lion. Gentleman was so generally objected to, that the present measure, which was almost the same, had not any prospect of passing. Its effect would be to increase the burthens of the yeomanry, which were already too great.
 Mr. Hawes  hoped the House would allow the bill to be brought in, having recognized the principle by allowing the introduction of the former bill of the hon. Gentleman. 
 Mr. Aglionby  said, the principle of the bill was the same as the former, but the details had been altered in accordance with the expressed feeling of the House On that occasion; he hoped, therefore, the hon. Member would be allowed to introduce it.
 Mr. Freshfield  thought the circumstances of the principle of this bill being the same as that of the former bill, which was on consideration rejected, was the best reason that could be afforded for not allowing the hon. Member to introduce it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, in supporting the motion of his hon. Friend, he begged distinctly to be understood as not pledging the Government to support either the principle or the details of the bill. At the same time he thought, that there was not then a sufficient number of Members present to debate such a question: he moved that the debate be adjourned.
 Mr. Langdale  wished to ask two questions of the noble Secretary-at-War—first, whether or not the children of soldiers were forced to attend the regimental schools, and to be educated solely in the religion of the Established Church? And, secondly, whether there was any intention of relaxing the rule which had hitherto been acted upon, and which had the effect of depriving the children of Roman Catholics, as well as Presbyterians and Protestant Dissenters generally, of the benefit of the Asylum School at Chelsea, unless they were educated in the doctrines of the Established Church?
 Mr. Law , seeing the hon. Member for Lambeth in his place, hoped the House would grant him the usual indulgence, when he re-
 450
 Mr. Law  assured the hon. Member and the House, that although the hon. Member's letter to him was dated on Friday last, he being out of town, did not receive it until one o'clock yesterday. He immediately returned to town at great personal inconvenience to himself, and arrived at the door of the House at a-quarter before
 451 Order Chair
 Mr. Hawes  really did not know whether he were called upon to reply to the hon. and learned Gentleman's question. Had the hon. and learned Member been in his place in the morning, as he ought to have been, he would have heard the statement he had made; and he thought it too much to be called upon to state over again the observations which, in the discharge of his public duty, he had thought it right to make. He could not, perhaps, recollect the exact phraseology he had used, and he must say, that it appeared to him a most unnatural course, having intimated to the hon. and learned Member in the course of Friday, that he should take an opportunity when the Police Courts Bill came before the House, to notice (not to complain, for he had no complaint to make) an address reported to have been made to a jury in the Central Criminal Court. He had yesterday requested the noble Lord, who had charge of it, to postpone the bill till today, in order that the hon. Member from whom he had received no answer till three o'clock that day, might have full notice. He was now in the hands of the House, and was willing, if it thought proper to enter upon the debate. [" No, no.
 Mr. Hawes  hoped he might be permit-to state, with reference to the communications on which the hon. and learned Gentleman laid great stress, that he had addressed a note to the hon. and learned Gentleman on Friday; that he had taken great pains that the note should be delivered, and on the door of the hon. and learned Gentleman's chambers there was a notice that the person in charge would attend again directly. He had heard nothing further upon the subject until he saw the hon. and learned Gentleman today, when the hon. and learned Gentleman stated that the only reason why the hon.
 452
 Mr. Hawes  said, the hon. Gentleman was mistaken. The present bill mitigated the severity of the existing law, by which police magistrates could imprison for three months without appeal.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that, in consequence of the call made upon him by the hon. Member for Cockermouth, he hoped the House would indulge him with a few minutes of their time, in order to call the attention, as well of the House as of the public, to the alterations introduced by the House of Lords. As the Solicitor-general had stated, there were two principal alterations, and but two, and both he regretted. The first alteration of the Lords was, the striking out the third clause of the bill, by which the Secretary of State was empowered to supersede, upon a fixed superannuation, certain police magistrates who, from age or other circumstances, were indisposed to continue on the bench, when far more extensive and important duties were imposed upon them. The bill, as it originally stood, comprehended, not only the removal of such magistrates as he had alluded to, but the appointment of a superior class of justices in these courts. No doubt could be entertained that the public had been, and was, dissatisfied with the mode of administering justice in these offices, and it was important, therefore, that not only justices, from whatever cause incompetent, should be removed, but that better should be appointed. The Lords had left the jurisdiction as extensive as it was when the bill left this House in nearly every respect, as he would presently show, and yet made alterations which would, in his opinion, mar its satisfactory administration. It appeared, however, that this clause was not absolutely necessary, inasmuch as the
 441 "We do exercise a very important jurisdiction at present, from a belief that it is better to decide the case at once for the interest of all parties, both the accuser and accused, in lieu of sending it to the sessions to be tried, involving as it does frequently long periods of imprisonment to the party accused. We do exercise such power perpetually, and we are assailed continually to exercise it still more, and an experienced officer said the other day, that there are few persons who have gone through a criminal proceeding that would ever complain again. There are nineteen out of twenty who have done that for the first time, not knowing what they have to go through, passing through the examination and re-examination at the police office, thence before the clerk of the Central Criminal Court taking the notes for indictment, thence to the grand jury, and thence before the petty jury and the court." 442 l l l l 443 444
 The Speaker  thought it would not be wise to press the matter further. The hon. and learned Member had called on the hon. Member for Lambeth to state the substance of any observations he had made; and it was certainly competent for the hon. Member to do so, but the hon. Member having declined, it was irregular to create any further debate. He had understood the hon. Member, when he rose, to make some explanation of what had occurred, which he (the Speaker) conceived was perfectly in order, but beyond that he thought any dicussion would be irregular.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he had answered the question of the hon. Gentleman some time ago, and he could only now reply in the same terms that he had on that occasion; but he thought that the House would be of opinion, that under the circumstances of the case, Sir John Colborne could not have acted otherwise than he had acted. He could not state exactly the manner in which Mr. Viger had been treated; but he thought it was unlikely that he was subjected to any hardships which were not necessary for his safe custody.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know why any British subject should be confined for two years without being brought to trial? It was most cruel and most unjust.
 Mr. Hume  wished again to draw the attention of the Under Secretary for the Colonies to the case of Mr. Viger, who had been confined in the gaol of Montreal, Lowe Canada, for two years, without having been brought to trial. It would be in the recollection of the House, that some time since he had asked a question on this subject—but he had this day seen an individual who had just arrived in this country from Montreal, and who stated that Mr. Viger was still detained in the gaol of that city, and that his family were denied all access to him. Such treatment as this he considered exceedingly cruel towards a gentleman seventy-five years of age, and who had for a long period occupied the high situation of a Member of the Assembly of the colony. It was cruel that he should be compelled to linger out another winter in prison, suffering such severe privations. He had asked to be brought to trial, either before the ordinary tribunals, or before a court-martial, he did not care which: but it was a cruel case that he should be detained in prison at his time of life, and made to undergo these privations.
 Mr. Hume  considered that the argument of the hon. Member for Dublin, founded on the fact, that no other Cabinet Minister had spoken in support of this bill, and the statement of the noble Lord, that this was a Cabinet measure, were perfectly consistent. He considered the course which he had taken upon this question perfectly proper, and that the course which had been pursued by the Government was totally unjustifiable.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  was very sorry to hear the hon. and learned Solicitor-general declare, that he was ready to agree to these amendments of the Lords. To that declaration he could by no means assent; and unquestionably he should take the sense of the House upon them. He rejoiced, however, that the Lords had struck out of the bill the summary clause. If it were right to give such jurisdiction to magistrates, why was the clause to be limited to a circle of fifteen miles round London, and why was not the benefit of it to be extended to the rest of the country? The real alteration, however, of the Lords, to which he wished to call the attention of the Commons, was one which completely spoiled the bill altogether. The Lords had struck out of the bill the third clause. That clause gave the responsible advisers of the Crown, the power of superseding the existing magistrates on payment of a pension or retiring allowance, not exceeding in amount two-thirds of their present salaries. The House of Commons, by a subsequent clause, had increased the salary of the future police magistrates, from 800 l. l l l 447
 Mr. T. Duncombe  observed, that the Act to which his right hon. Friend had referred was passed in 1834. As in the interval which had elapsed since the passing of that Act—her Majesty's Ministers, had not removed on retiring allowances any of those gentlemen who were such ornaments of the bench, he inferred that they had no intention to remove them now. He must, persist in his amendment.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that as far as he was concerned, although the Chancellor of the Exchequer had used hard words, he was aware that such an opposition could not be carried on without great inconvenience and much difficulty. During the nine years, however, that he had been in the House, neither the Government, nor any individual, had ever experienced any unfair opposition from him. The only inducements he had had for the course he had now taken were the interests of his constituents, and because he considered that the Members for Ireland were taken by surprise, and could not have a fair chance of resisting the bill. In his opinion, the minority were justified in taking that course, for no other full and fair course of opposition was open to them: and, however much he might regret being driven to adopt such a course, he did not feel that he was justly subject to the reprobation which the right hon. Gentleman had cast upon him.
 Sir C. Grey  certainly thought that the motion of the hon. Member for East Kent, for allowing appeals in all cases, had been negatived, and that the House of Lords had adopted that principle.
 Sir C. Grey  was not aware of any address having been made from the bench of the nature alluded to by the hon. Member for Lambeth, and thought the hon. Member somewhat premature in coming so rapidly to any conclusion upon that subject. He agreed, however, with that hon. Member, in entertaining an anxious desire that the bill should not be ushered into the world subject to any misrepresentation: and that, as regarded summary jurisdiction in case, of felony, the question turned more upon the technical meaning of the words than anything else. But it appeared to him that the hon. Member for Lambeth had omitted to notice one very material point. According to his (Sir C. Grey's) impression, the bill, as it passed that
 445
 Viscount Howick  answered, that no change whatever had been introduced into the practice of the army by the late order on the subject. In the regimental schools, no children were required to be educated in any religion of which their parents disapproved. With respect to the education of children in the Asylum School at Chelsea, the education of the children there was wholly in the doctrines of the Church of England. He had some time ago seriously deliberated upon this subject, in concert with the commissioners, and after a very full consideration they had been compelled to come to the conclusion that it was impossible in that institution, as it was constituted, that the children who are there, and who are entirely provided for within the institution, could be educated, under any practicable arrangement, in any religion but that of the Established Church.
 Viscount Howick  could not refer to the statement that his right hon. Friend had been left unsupported by his colleagues, without distinctly denying the assertion.
 464
 Viscount Morpeth  could assure the House, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had acted throughout not only with the full cognizance, but with the entire approbation of the Government, and he must say, that every part of the right hon. Gentleman's proceedings had been above
 465
 Mr. Ellis  thought it rather unreasonable, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should be called upon to reduce the rate of interest, when that was contingent upon other ar-
 467
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, no one could more regret the unsatisfactory state of that system, and no one could have shown a more anxious wish, or made more arduous exertions to bring matters to a settlement, than himself. But the hon. Member must remember, that the proposition made from the other side of the House, was to arrange the matter of the Exchequer bills this year, and leave the other points for separate consideration. He thought hon. Members must see, that the Bank of Ireland, instead of being open to blame, had, on the contrary, done everything they could to bring about an amicable settlement of the question. When, in consequence of the suggestion to which he had alluded, he had agreed to adopt its principle, he was now again asked to go into the whole of the other points connected with the banking laws in Ireland. He could assure the hon. Gentleman, that no one could be a greater friend, than he was, to a system of free banking, but always apart and separate from the making of money. The point on which he differed with hon. Gentlemen on this subject, was connected entirely with the question of issue, and nothing else. He would take that opportunity of alluding to a statement which had been made yesterday during the debate, by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated, that Mr. Roe, the gentleman who had nominated the hon. and learned Gentleman at his last election, had been excluded from the office of director of the Bank of Ireland, on account of his political opinions, which made a considerable impression on the House. That statement was, however, erroneous. The facts were, that there were in Dublin two brothers, Mr. Roe and Mr. R. Roe, secretary to the Chamber of Commerce, a gentleman of very extensive acquirements, and the best political economist he had ever met. He was the author of various petitions to that House, of great importance, and of one in particular, on the usury laws, which was a model of sound reasoning and correct composition. That gentleman, indeed, stood so high, and was so much esteemed in the city of Dublin, that he had been more than once offered the representation of that city, which he had declined, but he believed all parties admitted, that they would have been honoured by having such a representative. The elder brother was appointed to the direction, and it being contrary to

 468
 Mr. Aglionby , as a member of the committee, felt bound to state, that the hon. Member for Finsbury had completely mistaken the course adopted by that com-
 470 s. d. s. d. s.
 Mr. Sandford  regretted that his hon. Friend persisted in introducing the bill. The only object he could have in view was, that it should be circulated during the prorogation; but this was done after the last Session, and the public opinion was strongly against the bill. The principle of the bill was nearly the same, and the machinery was of so cumbrous a nature, that it would be attended with the greatest inconvenience. He imagined that it was the wish of the hon. Member to give superintendence to the rate-payers, and in this desire he concurred; but the plan proposed was so burdensome, that it must necessarily fail in attaining its object. If the hon. Member had introduced the measure earlier in the Session, it might have been fully discussed. He could assure the hon. Member, that the feeling of the country was against the measure. It would be necessary to travel great distances, and to go to considerable expense, to exercise the franchise under this measure, and people were getting tired of going these distances to vote.
 The Solicitor-General  said, the subject was of the deepest interest to his constituents; and there were one or two points to which he wished to call the attention of his hon. Friend. He could not claim on behalf of those whom he had the honour to represent, that the consideration of their interests should weigh with the Government or with the House, to induce them to forego the advantages of steam, if steam were (as he believed it was) more expeditious for the transmission of correspondence than sailing vessels. But even on this point he begged it to be recollected, that the packet service, being a branch of our naval establishment, presented a laudable object of ambition to those desirous of entering the navy, and who might otherwise be unemployed; thus was it a nursery for British seamen, and answered ends which would not be effected by a contract system. Supposing, however, that the Government had taken an unalterable resolve, he yet would especially entreat them—they might believe it was with no ill-will he did so—to make the change with the least possible injury to a port which had been for a hundred and fifty years the port of communication across the Atlantic;—with the least possible injury to the—he would not say vested rights—but the valuable interests of those who had laid out large capital in extensive establishments at Falmouth. And what he suggested was, that it should be wade a part of the contract—as to a certain
 476
 Mr. F. Baring  hoped the House would express no opinion with respect to the propriety of placing the packet station at Falmouth, or elsewhere. If he was in the situation of his hon. Friend, standing up in that House as the advocate of his constituents, he should advocate the station being at Portsmouth. The Treasury were determined to fix upon the place for a packet station which was most beneficial to the public service, and not to consider the interests of any parties in particular. He had great gratification in reflecting that, while his noble Friend was at the head of the Treasury, the Government, in conjunction with the Admiralty, had been able to confer the greatest advantages upon the commerce of the country with the world, by the increased facilities it had afforded to trade. During the last few years a weekly communication by steam had been established with Gibraltar—a fortnightly communication with the Baltic—a fortnightly communication with Corfu and the Grecian Islands—a steam communication between England and India—a fortnightly communication between England and North America; and now they had secured, by the last arrangement, a fortnightly steam
 477
 Mr. Aglionby  understood as much, and therefore the groundwork of the argumeut of the hon. Member for Kilkenny was cut away. It was said to be impossible to grant these returns. He should like to know in what the impossibility consisted. If any contract was in existence it could be produced, and if no such contract existed, it was easy to state so. If no offers had been made, where was the difficulty of stating so? It had been stated by the hon. Member for Penryn, that an offer had been made to carry the mails for 100,000 l. l.
 Mr. Aglionby  was anxious to know, whether the Secretary to the Admiralty intended to grant this return or not?
 Mr. F. Baring  said, the returns would not answer the purpose of the hon. Member; he had better move for the whole of the correspondence. The Government had been repeatedly urged by parties in that House to perform this service by contract, and the moment they did so their powers were doubted. This struck him as most extraordinary; it was of great importance that this question should be settled, both out of fairness to the Government and to the parties interested. The hon. Gentleman had better give notice of a motion for suspending the contracts at once.
 Lord Eliot  was ready to concede, that the public interests ought to be the object which the Government should have in view, but the value of Falmouth had been underrated, and if the establishment there should be destroyed, we might, in the event of war, find ourselves in a situation of great difficulty. He thought the substitution of steam for sailing vessels was a great advantage, and the question was, whether the Government had secured this in the most efficient and economical manner? It appeared that a company of merchants at Bristol were ready to undertake the arrangement on more economical terms; and he also understood that a sum had been offered for the bargain which had been struck with the Government. It was proposed that the packets should take their departure twice a month. That was at the same period as the sailing-packets, and therefore the transmission of letters would not be oftener than at present. But this company was to have a monopoly for ten years at 240,000 l. 479
 Lord Eliot  said, the Falmouth deputation who had waited on the Treasury, not only were previously ignorant of any such contract being in contemplation, but they also left the Treasury equally in the dark.
 Mr. C. Wood  thought his hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth could not have listened to what he had stated, which was distinctly, first, that the contract was just as he had represented it to the House, next, that it was not a private, but a public tender, and thirdly, that no other offer had been made. With respect to the question of the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Freshfield), all he had to say was, that the Government had reserved to themselves the right of naming the port from which the vessels were to start. With respect to the complaint, that the arrangement had been effected by private contract, he would observe, that in every instance where public tenders had been invited by the Govern-
 480
 Mr. C. Wood  was understood to say that no prospectuses had been issued. He had no hope of a better tender. Considering, too, that the parties would have to build at least fourteen steam-vessels of four hundred horse-power, it could not be expected that they would be able to commence for some months.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, the only reason why he should object to the motion was, that it would be impossible for him to comply with it. He was ready, however, to make an explanation; and as that would probably answer the purpose of the hon. Gentleman, he would do so at once. The first contract in point of time was the one for the conveyance of mails to Halifax. The Government certainly had called for a public tender for the performance of that service. The lowest tender for the performance of that service once a month (and that was a very unsatisfactory tender with regard to the mode of carrying it out) was 45,000 l l. l. l. l. l. 474 l. 475
 Mr. C. Wood —Certainly not.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, it would be impossible to give the hon. Gentleman more information on the subject than he had already given him. If next Session he chose to move for every scrap of paper connected with the subject, he should have no objection to furnish him with them.
 Mr. D. Callaghan  believed, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, who was not present, was perfectly aware that he had been led into error, and would have corrected the mistake last night, had he not been told by an hon. Member, that it was scarcely worth while mentioning it again to the House.
 Mr. Finch  could not allow that opportunity to pass Without expressing his regret, that the rate of interest to be paid to the Bank of Ireland, was not the same as that contemplated in the bill that had been withdrawn.
 Mr. G. Palmer  thought, the Government could not be too open in their dealings with respect to all matters of contract, and deprecated the encouragement of steam-vessels, which he considered destroyed nurseries for seamen.
 Mr. Freshfield  was glad the hon. Member for Kilkenny had brought the subject before the House, and he was most anxious to see the contract or  quasi quasi pro and con. Falmouth Packet l. l. 478
 Mr. Brotherton  said, whatever defence was attempted to be made, there was no doubt the bill would be an increase of the pension of the Duke of Marlborough, who had for thirty years acquiesced in the deduction. If any of the relations of sailors or soldiers applied for pensions after such a period, they were told it was too late—the books were closed. Why should not the same principle be applicable to all?
 Mr. Hume  moved the resumption of the adjourned debate on the County Councils Bill.
 Mr. Hume  rose to move for a copy of any contract or agreement entered into by the Board of Admiralty, or any other department of her Majesty's Government, respecting the conveyance of the mails to the West Indies and America, stating, whether the same has been agreed to by private contract or public tender; and stating, also, the terms or offers made by merchants of Bristol, or other parties, for the said contract.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask, if any prospectuses had been issued, setting forth the duties to be performed, and calling for tenders; and also whether the hon. Gentleman was able to state if the parties were now in a condition to carry their agreement into effect, or if it would be necessary even now to form a company for that purpose?
 Mr. Hume  said, before strangers withdrew, he wished to state his entire concurrence in the views of his hon. Friend. He had opposed the bill on a former occasion, and, although he had had a seconder, he had not had the good fortune to have any supporters. Finding the opinion of the House to be entirely against him, he thought it unnecessary to offer any opposition on the present occasion, having already recorded his opinion on the subject; but if any other hon. Member wished to divide, he would not withhold his support from him. It had been argued that the Duke of Marlborough was entitled to the 5,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  replied. The principle of representation and taxation which he contended for, was recognised in every municipal corporation in the kingdom, and the object of the bill was to extend that principle to counties. There were some objections urged on former occasions with regard to the frequent elections of the councils, and the appointment of auditors, which he had remedied in the present bill, and all he wanted was, that time should be given for properly discussing its merits. He hoped the bill would not be opposed; several had been introduced within the last month for the mere purpose of being printed, and why his bill should not be so, he did not know. If it were objected to, of course, he must submit, as in the then state of the House, it would be worse than useless to take a division, but he hoped the bill would be allowed to circulate throughout every country.
 Mr. Hume  wished, before the question was disposed of, to make one or two observations. He admitted, that he had been ignorant of the facts stated by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wood), but he did not think the Admiralty or the Government had the power of binding this country to contracts for ten years. Hitherto there had always been an annual vote for the expenses of the packets. He would venture to say, that never had there been 2,400,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that would be hardly fair towards him. He had always been friendly to a plan for executing these duties by contract, and as to the question of power, the Attorney-general was the proper person to apply to. He had no wish to move for the correspondence, but he would advise the Government to pause.
 Mr. P. Howard  thought the proposition a very reasonable one, At present mea-
 472
 Mr. Grimsditch  said, the title of the bill ought to be, a bill to establish county con-
 473
 Mr. T. Parker  was in duty bound to oppose the bill. In the county with which he was connected, the accounts were made up yearly, and the county was in general satisfied with them. He must oppose the introduction of the bill.
 Mr. Wakley  said, he hoped some one in the House would divide with him against bringing up the report. He did think that, on principle, a more objectionable measure could not have been submitted to the House. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had already offered a fruitless opposition to the bill. This bill ought to have a different title. It should be entitled "A Bill for increasing the Pension of the Duke of Marlborough by 375 l. 469 l.
 Mr. Ewart  thought, as the hon. Member for Somersetshire approved of the principle of the bill, he ought to vote with the hon. Member for Kilkenny. If the machinery was complex, it could be amended in committee; and the hon. Member, as a country gentleman, was one of the best fitted for the purpose of suggesting these amendments. Seeing that the principle of the measure was admitted, it was unfair to reject the bill on details, particularly as the duties required were such as any country gentleman ought to be ready to execute.
 Admiral Adam  said, that the steamers would carry almost as many seamen as the packets used to do. But he would ask was it nothing for this country to have an immense force of large steam-vessels, so that, if a war were to break out tomorrow, we could at once arm and man them for the purpose of protecting our commerce, not only in the channel but all over the world? He knew there were at present a great many objections to steam-vessels, but time and experience would overcome them.
 Sir C. Burrell  considered it extraordinary that this measure should be introduced by Gentlemen who had objected to the Chancellor of the Exchequer bringing forward the Irish Bank Bill on account of the lateness of the Session. Taking the whole circumstances into consideration, he felt it to be his duty, if his hon. Friend, the Member for Somersetshire, divided on the subject, to vote with him.
 Captain Pechell  hoped the bill would be printed for the information of the public, as the time had now arrived when they were anxious to have some sort of control over the money that was raised from them. The principle had been recognised in the bill which had been introduced on a former occasion, and there could be no reasonable objection to its introduction. He knew not what machinery the hon. Member contemplated in his plan to give the rate-payers some control over the funds, but the system was one which the House must approve of, more especially at a time when the rates were increasing, and further demands were being constantly made upon the ratepayers. He hoped the House would allow the bill to be brought in.
 Captain Pechell , said the hon. Gentleman had objected to giving a copy of the contract for the conveyance of the West India mails, on the ground of its being incomplete; but no such objection could apply to the contract with Halifax, because in a Nova Scotia paper he had seen a vole of thanks to the agent, Mr. Cuqard, on the ground of his having made so good a bargain with the English Government. He thought, that great caution should be used with respect to the doing away with the establishment at Falmouth, as it had always been a most excellent nursery for our seamen. He begged to ask, too, how the mail was to be carried from Halifax to Boston. [ Mr. C. Wood
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could assure the hon. Gentleman who had presented the petition, that the only cause of the absence of the noble Lord was indisposition. He must admit that the hon. Gentleman had done full justice to the principles which had actuated his noble Friend. No doubt the notice that had been taken of the case in the House would have the attention of the Secretary of State, but whether that would produce a different result, he could not say. Whatever that result might be, he trusted the House would not undertake to review lightly the prerogative of the Crown in cases of the present nature. In conclusion, he begged to inform the hon. Member for Finsbury, that he would take core that what had occurred should be made known to his noble Friend.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in moving the committal of the Exchequer Bills Funding Bill, felt called upon, in consequence of the question put to him last evening by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and, irrespective of that question, from a sense of public duty, to state distinctly to the House what had been the result of the steps he had taken with respect to the funding of Exchequer bills. Undoubtedly, in adopting, for the first time, the course which he had adopted, that of inviting public competition, he felt that no common degree of responsibility attached to him. If the matter had failed, he felt that the whole blame would have been cast upon the Government, of which he was the responsible organ; and the failure would have been connected with the having adopted a new course. But he felt so satisfied that the principle upon which he was disposed to act was in itself right, and that it was expedient that the experiment should be tried, with the view of following it out upon any future occasion when the funding of Exchequer bills might be necessary, that he did not hesitate to take upon himself the responsibility of acting upon it. That responsibility would have been materially increased if the experiment had failed, because he had been forewarned by many Members of that House that it could not succeed The
 491 l. l. l. l. l l. l. l. 492 l. 1 s l. l 493
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, if the hon. Gentleman would put his questions on paper, he should be prepared to state distinctly the information required. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had now with him a statement, which would afford a considerable part of the information the hon. Gentleman sought to obtain; but he should prefer giving his answer in a complete manner. With regard to Exchequer bills issued on account of public works, he believed the amount of them now outstanding was about 400,000 l l l.
 Mr. Hawes  said, there were some parts of the hon. Member's statement which required a little elucidation; and as he had taken some interest in the case, he would take the liberty of addressing a few observations to the House. He was bound to state his entire conviction of the complete innocence of Mr. Thomas. He made that statement, not upon his own conviction, but as the result of the professional investigation of two barristers of eminence, who had gratuitously given their services in the case. He would state further, that he had received from the noble Lord every possible attention; he had submitted every document to him, and yet, nevertheless, the noble Lord had somehow come to the conclusion, that he should not be justified in ordering the prisoner to be discharged. He could only account for that decision of the noble Lord by the circumstance, that from the multiplicity of his high and important duties, he was obliged to depend on the information of others; and he believed that proper investigation had not been made into this case by the authorities in the Home Department, because they had alleged that Mr. Cook was a person of bad character
 489
 Mr. Hume  wished to know, what would be the amount added to the permanent debt of the country by this operation; and what was the amount of Exchequer bills, issued for public works, now outstanding? He also washed to know, what amount of Exchequer bills the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to issue, in order to make good the deficiency of revenue in the present year?
 Mr. Hume  begged to inquire of the noble Lord whether the statements were true, that arrangements had been entered into by the five great European Powers upon a basis calculated to preserve the peace of the East?
 Mr. Wakley  presented a petition from Henry Cornelius Thomas, surgeon, of Camberwell, complaining of the illegal imprisonment of his brother, a surgeon, of the same place. As the petition referred to a case of personal grievance, and one which called for immediate redress, he trusted the House would indulge him with permission to relate the particulars. The brother of the petitioner, named Frederick Nicholas Somers Thomas, had been convicted it appeared, for stealing furniture from a house in Camberwell-grove. The case turned on a question entirely of identity, and the conviction of Mr. Thomas, depended on very loose and unsatisfactory testimony. None of the goods were traced to the possession of either of the prisoners. On the 13th of December, a Mr. Cook, another surgeon, stated that he had seen a report of a case in the newspapers, which he knew to be totally erroneous, for he was the party that took away the goods, and he was totally unacquainted with Mr. Thomas, whom he had never seen, and who knew nothing of the matter at all. Mr. Cook, and two persons in his employ, Skinner and Watts, removed the goods in September. They went to the house in the open day, and there was no concealment, and no attempt at concealment. Mr. Cook, feeling that he was entitled to take the goods that were assigned to him by his debtor, related these facts to the Home-office, and the Chairman of the Sessions; but, strange as it might appear, after Mr. Cook had sent to the Home-office a state
 487 488
 Viscount Palmerston  having laid papers on the Table relative to the state of affairs between Mehemet Ali and the Porte, wished to say that a convention had been entered into between England and France, to settle all disputes relative to the fisheries, which had created so much anxiety to both countries. It was important to explain, that the individuals of each country would, have the right of fishing within three miles of low-water mark, the boundary linebetween the two kingdoms; and commissioners had also been appointed for making regulations respecting trollers with the long line, when they should meet on the sea between the two countries, and beyond the three miles line of either coast. The commissioners were to draw up regulations to be approved by each Government, by whom they were respectively to receive the force of law. As the Session was drawing to a close, and it was likely that the commissioners would conclude their labours before Parliament met again, it was desirable to obtain from Parliament a temporary power to give effect to those regulations in the meantime, by an Order in Council approving of such regulations as might be agreed on by the commissioners.
 Viscount Palmerston  was glad that the hon. Member had put the question, because it afforded him the opportunity of making a statement which he felt assured would be satisfactory to the House. On the 28th of last month a note was presented to the ministers of the Porte, signed by the representatives of the five Powers, technically called a "collective note," which note said that they (the representatives) were instructed by their several governments to inform the Porte that the five Powers were agreed generally as to the affairs now pending between Turkey and Egypt; and that they were instructed to request the the Porte to suspend any negociations with Mehemet Ali, and not to proceed therein without the knowledge and concurrence of the five Powers. That note was received by the government of the Porte with great thankfulness; therefore, the House might rest assured, that nothing would be done to lead to a disturbance of the peace of the East, unless some new subject should arise, of which at present there was no prospect whatever.
 Mr. O'Connell  was exceedingly sorry to hear the noble Lord assent to that which was called an "amendment," but which certainly was no improvement to the bill. It would inflict a most grievous injury on a very large class of the community. He had seen by the daily papers, that the most sagacious and satisfactory reason given elsewhere for rejecting the clause, was, that it had been introduced by him; and it was added, he had had some political motive in introducing it. Now the clause was supported by the hon. and gallant Member for Armagh (Colonel Verner), and the hon. Member for Belfast (Mr. Tennent), as well as himself; and it was rather hard to say what political motive they could have had in common for joining in the struggle to procure the insertion of the clause. He hoped the noble Lord would hold out some expectation of bringing the subject before Parliament early next Session, with the authority of Government; for it was a great grievance that the grocers of Ireland should be deprived of that which the grocers of England could enjoy, and which the grocers of Scotland did enjoy.
 Mr. O'Connell  had lately said, that he never knew the Government in the wrong, without receiving the support of the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford. He was, however, bound to make this case an exception, and had great pleasure in expressing his intention of voting along with the hon. Baronet on the present question. He had examined it judicially, as a member of the committee, and had no doubt whatever, that a more fair and honest claim than that of
 567
 Mr. Hume  said, as this would be the last opportunity he should have to address the House on the subject of banking, or on the state of public credit, he wished to make some observations as the Session was about to terminate, on the state of our monetary system. He must state that things were in a very unsatisfactory position, both as regarded the general commercial, and financial affairs of the country—he hoped they would improve before they met again; but that it would be an abandonment of his duty, after the many warnings he had given in the course of the three last Sessions, to allow Parliament to separate without placing on record his opinions in their present state. Was it not to be greatly regretted, that England, the richest state in Europe, should, by the mismanagement of its monetary system, be unable to carry on its commercial enterprises, or to maintain the public credit, without having recourse to bills of accommodation in another country? What could more distinctly show the erroneous principles on which we had managed our money matters, than the humiliating fact, that the Bank of England, to prevent the entire drain of its bullion, had been compelled to have recourse to draw bills purely of accommodation on the Bank of France, through the bankers in Paris. Such was the truth, and he found that it would have most injurious effects on the character and credit of this country. He believed, that one principal cause of the present disastrous state of the monied interest in London; and, he might include, of every other disastrous monetary crisis, that had taken place during the last twenty years, is the conduct of the Bank of England. And he particularly mentioned that, now in the midst of our difficulties, because he had more than once attempted, by mo-" lions in this House to bring the subject before Parliament; and, if the enquiry he had sought for, had been granted, he
 569 570 571 572
 Mr. O'Connell  would not oppose the bill, but he trusted the House would allow him to make a few observations. He would not enter into the state of the banks at Paris and Hamburgh, but he must protest against some of the heresies of his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny. He had said that the Usury-laws did not make money cheap. He could not agree to that. He believed the reverse was the fact, and that their repeal had encouraged exportation. With respect to the present measure, it would give an opportunity to her Majesty's Government to consider what course they would pursue in the next Session. He trusted the Government would be prepared with some fixed plan. If they wished to do away with the money making portion of the system of banking, they ought to declare at once that such was their intention. The people of Ireland, before the next Session, would be perfectly informed—indeed they were so already—as to the great risk of continuing the present monopoly. He could remember the melancholy results produced in Ireland by the transition from paper to gold. The narrowing
 573
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not rise to continue the discussion upon the bill, which had so often been gone into but to correct some of those errors into which the hon. Member for Kilkenny had fallen, and more especially with reference
 574 s 575 l Hume  Hume l
 Mr. Hume  begged, in explanation, to state, that he never had objected to the Usury-laws' relaxation, or had said that they made money dear; he had been, from his first entry into this House, the steady advocate of the repeal of those laws, and, twenty years ago, had voted with Mr. Serjant Onslow in all his motions for their repeal. What he had said was this, that as the fluctuation of the interest of money, and of the rate of discount, were rendered greater by the repeal of the
 576 l l l l l l l l l l l l 577
 Mr. Villiers  rose merely to call the attention of the House to one observation which had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because he thought, considering the period of the Session, and the state of the country, it was the most important and remarkable that he had heard in that House. He referred to what he had said on the question raised by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, as to the cause of that disturbance of their monetary affairs which now filled all men's minds with anxiety and alarm; that it was his deliberate conviction, after duly considering the subject, and bringing to it all the experience he had as a public man, and all the information he had acquired of late years at the head of the finances of this country, that the cause of all our danger and difficulty was the present state of the corn-laws. This, he thought, was one of the most important declarations in this House on the subject that had ever been made, and one which he trusted, would invite the serious consideration of all thinking men to the subject; for he would ask if ever greater alarm prevailed in the country than there did at the present moment, at the prospects of the next year—whether men were not watching the atmosphere at every instant of the day, and whether they did not believe that the peace or confusion of the country did not almost hang upon the accidents of a cloud; and why was this, but owing to the dependence to which they had reduced themselves upon the harvest of their own country; for with the present commerce in the necessary article of food with other countries, a scarcity of their own supply of food was nearly fatal to them; and now, that they were on the eve of a second year of deficiency, every man in his senses was terrified at the con-
 578 579
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed with the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, that the present state of affairs could not be attributed to one cause. It must be owing no doubt to a combination of causes. He was merely arguing in that respect against the hon. Member for Kilkenny, who had ascribed the present posture of affairs solely to the management of the Bank. He did not say, that everything connected with the Bank management was all that could be wished, but he maintained that the primary cause was the Corn-laws, and even with a free system of banking and a bad system of Corn-laws, the country would still experience many of the changes and inconveniences which had affected it.
 Mr. Warburton  was gratified that the monopoly of the Bank of Ireland was only continued for another year. He agreed, that a great cause of the irregularities in the currency was owing to its being lodged in improper hands; but did not think, that his hon. Friends who supported the joint-stock banks would transfer it to hands that would stop the evil. So long as the control of the currency was left to merchants having an interest in high or low prices, no proper regulation of the currency could be effected; and if it were given to joint-stock banks, he thought it would rather increase than diminish the evil.
 Mr. O'Connell  protested against the doctrine, that because a man was imprisoned he was to be subject to particular regulations. Imprisonment meant nothing more than the restraining a man from. going abroad. It did not mean any species of torture. It was torture to keep a literary person from the use of pens, ink, and paper—it was torture to keep him. from books. Whenever a wealthy man was committed to prison every luxury was afforded him. There ought to be some legal definition of what should amount to imprisonment, and it ought not to be left to the caprice or mistake of magistrates to say how much it should be heightened. He hoped the Attorney-general and the
 583
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he was quite certain the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, would give relief in all cases in which it could properly be called for. He knew that in the case of Vincent, an appeal had been made to the noble Lord to allow the free use of books, and the order had been made, provided the books were not of an objectionable character. In any case properly made out, his noble Friend would doubtless grant all the relief consistent with the due administration of the law, and the effectual enforcement of the sentences awarded by courts of justice.
 Mr. C. Wood  did not think he could add a great deal to the explanation he had given on a former occasion, as to the nature of the contract. There were two or three points to which he thought it necessary to advert, and first, as to the power of the Treasury to enter into these contracts. Surely the hon. Gentleman who had himself recommended the Government to enter into these contracts, would not now deny their power to do so, or if he thought they had not that power, he never would have urged them to make contracts for the conveyance of the mails. These contracts necessarily depended upon the annual votes of Parliament, and if the hon. Member referred to what had been the uniform practice, he would find that there were regular votes of Parliament on the subject. So far, therefore, as the power went, there had never been any question, and it had been invariably exercised, subject to the opinion of the House in the annual estimates. It was urged that inquiry should be made as to the regular lines of communication, and the best mode of transmitting the mails. But did the hon. Member suppose that the persons at the head of the Post-office communication in that part of the world and at home, were without any information on the subject—that they were not acquainted with the prevalent winds and currents, and that the naval officers on the West India station, the Post-office, and the Treasury, were not possessed of all the information that could possibly be given on the subject, so as to enable them to decide upon the most eligible plan? It was further urged, that it was a great waste of strength to employ large vessels in communications between the different islands; but if vessels of large tonnage and great power were required at all, it was in these places, in order that the mails from the different islands might
 586 587 l l l l
 Mr. Warburton  thought the Government were entitled to the thanks of the country, for the contracts they had entered into upon this subject; but the question was, whether on entering into contracts for so long a period, the public ought not to be satisfied that they were entering into those that were most beneficial to the public.
 Mr. Sanford  thought, that these cases ought to be always left to special applications. He certainly admitted that the discipline of a prison should not be solely at the option of any magistrates. Nor was it. For the prisons were under the controul of visiting magistrates, who were entirely guided by the regulations agreed on, firstly by the magistrates in Quarter Sessions, and afterwards sanctioned by the judges of Assize.
 Mr. Warburton  said, he was glad it would be understood that the Home-office would grant relief in all proper cases. That these prisoners should be without fire in winter was monstrous; indeed, it was enough to kill persons who had been accustomed to comfortable living. Besides, this unjust severity had the effect of exciting the sympathy of the public in the prisoners favour, instead of, as would otherwise be perhaps the case, creating public concurrence in the justice of the sentence.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his readiness to leave the case in the hands of the Secretary for the Home Department.
 Mr. Hume  called the attention of the House to the petition which he had presented yesterday, from Henry Vincent, and others, confined in Monmouth gaol, relative to the treatment which they had experienced since the time of their committal. It was important that the rule with respect to persons committed for political offences should be properly understood. It appeared that these persons, after a trial of ten hours on ten counts, had been convicted on one count, and a question was put to the judge as to the manner in which they should be imprisoned. The learned judge said that no severity would be used, except what was necessary to secure their persons. But it now turned out that they were deprived of the use of fire, of pens, ink, and paper, and of the use of books. There ought to be some understood rules for the regulation of prisons, and he wished to hear what remedy was likely to be applied under the circumstances.
 Mr. Hume  would advise his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, not to persevere in his objection on the point of form. He must, however, declare his continued opposition to the bill. The pension had been taxed under an Act of Parliament; and if injustice was done, the party ought to apply for redress to a court of law.
 Mr. Wakley , objected to the motion. He believed it was incompetent for the right hon. Gentleman to proceed with the third reading in point of form, as it stood among the dropped notices, and not among the orders of the day.
 Sir C. Grey  entertained grave doubts, whether the Duke of Marlborough was not only entitled to the relief proposed by the bill, but also to the arrears for thirty years.
 Sir F. Burdett  considered it quite unconstitutional that men should be subjected to greater inflictions than the sentence of the law specified. It was no justification in such a case, to say that the regulations had been made by magistrates. This injustice, like many others in this country, had arisen out of a departure from the old constitutional practice of leaving the regulation of prison
 584
 Captain Pechell  having taken a great interest in this question, it was naturally to him a source of the most lively satisfaction to congratulate the noble Lord on
 581
 The Attorney-General  said, his own feeling was, that no unnecessary severity would be applied in any such cases, and he believed he expressed the feelings of the Government when he said so. An application had been made by Mr. Stephens for the use of pen, ink, and paper, and he had requested that no unnecessary severity should be used, and that he should not be subject to such privations. He believed, in the present instance, there was not the smallest pretence for saying that anything had been done contrary to the sentence.
 The Attorney-General  said, the Judges were in the habit of inquiring what was the discipline of the prison—and in the case of the Rev. Mr. Stephens, the learned Judge, Mr. Justice Patteson, a most humane and excellent judge, having found that the prison to which he had first sent Mr. Stephens, had regulations too harsh for a gentleman of education, altered his direction, and sent Mr. Stephens to the gaol of Chester, where he would be allowed the use of pens, paper, books, and other conveniences.
 Sir R. Inglis  regretted, that any matter of form should be adduced as an obstacle to the progress of the bill. He should certainly support the motion for the third reading.
 Viscount Morpeth , in moving the consideration of the Lords' amendments to this bill, stated, that the Lords had struck out a clause which, on the motion of an hon. and learned Member, was added, by way of rider, to the bill on the third reading, enabling grocers to sell spirits. He had given his cordial acquiescence to the insertion of that clause, and would have been happy if it had been allowed to remain as part of the bill. But feeling satisfied that no measures the House could take would secure the re-insertion of the clause, and as he could not pretend that the clause was an integral part of the bill, he did not think he was called on to ask the House to disagree to the amendments the Lords had made.
 Viscount Palmerston  obtained leave and brought in a bill for the purpose of carrying into effect the convention between her Majesty and the King of the French, relative to fisheries on the coasts of the British Islands and France.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, this was really an important Convention, which he trusted would be effectual in preventing the recurrence of those differences which had on many occasions threatened to create very serious difficulties. It was founded on principles of perfect equality. Neither country conceded more than it would obtain, and therefore he trusted it would prove entirely satisfactory to both. 582
 Mr. E. J. Stanley , having moved for a new writ for the borough of Cambridge, in the room of the right hon. Thomas Spring Rice, who had accepted the office of steward of the Chiltern Hundreds,
 Mr. D'Israeli  said, that before these changes had taken place, there ought to have been an explanation given as to the principles on which the Cabinet was to be conducted for the future, and considering the precarious state of the country and its finances, that the new Chancellor of the Exchequer, if not the old, would have given some information upon the general finances of the nation. As he did not see the right hon. Gentleman in his place, and as it appeared that the Cabinet was to be strengthened by recruits from the official underlings, perhaps some of the hon. Gentleman on the Treasury Bench would feel quite authorized and duly qualified to give an exposition of the policy on which the new Cabinet was to be conducted. Till that was done, he should feel it his duty to resist the motion.
 Mr. E. J. Stanley  said, that not being a member of the Cabinet, he could not take upon himself to reply to the question of the hon. Member. But he was satisfied, that on reflection he would see the propriety, in justice to the people of Cambridge, of not persisting in his objection to the issuing of the writ which he had moved for.
 Mr. D'Israeli , seeing the right hon. Baronet, the President of the Board of Control, in his place, begged to ask the right hon. Baronet if he could afford the House any explanation of the principles on which the new Cabinet was to be conducted? They were about to meet their constituents, and he knew nothing which could be more interesting or important for
 596
 Captain Boldero  said, the company who had made the contract with Government, had issued a prospectus, and their shares hung very heavy in the market, a pretty strong proof that the terms were not so advantageous as the hon. Member for Bridport seemed to suppose. He did not think that very large vessels would have answered better than those which the
 599
 Mr. Hawes  would mention a case of very recent improvement, which would produce a very material reduction in the expense of steam-ships. The company that built the Great Western, were now building another vessel of considerably increased size. That new vessel was to be of iron. By that plan the ship would possess a very greatly enlarged power of carrying cargo, in proportion to her tonnage, compared with any steam-ship built of wood, and the increase of freight which the owners would thus receive, would very much diminish the expenses of her navigation.
 Mr. B. Smith  thought the great improvement in steam navigation of late years was the great increase in the size of the vessels. When the Victory was built, it was said of her, as a mark of praise, that she sailed like a frigate, because first-rates did not sail so fast as those of smaller dimensions, but the largest class of steamships were the quicker sailers. He objected to the small tonnage of the ships to be furnished to the Government. They were not half the size of the Great Western, and the consequence would be, that letters would be sent by other routes and arrive in much less time.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, the reason why he had delayed rising, was the consciousness that he had already addressed the House on the subject twice, and he now felt that he could do no more than repeat what he had again and again stated before. He knew that where public competition had been resorted to on a former occasion, no such favourable offer had been made as that which the Admiralty had accepted. It should be borne in mind that, in cases where the enterprise was, as in the present case, highly difficult, competition would operate much less than in ordinary cases. He thought, therefore, without assigning too great authority to the Admiralty, their experience might be permitted to set aside the theories of the hon. Gentleman. He had never asserted that no improvement had taken place in steam navigation within the last ten years; but what he had stated was, that no such improvements had taken place within that time, as would authorize the expectation of any great reduction taking place in the expense of navigating steam-vessels within the next ten years. The contractors were also bound, on the requisition of the Government, to give the advantage of every improvement that might take place in steam navigation; and taking all these circumstances into consideration, he did not think it would be worth the while of the contractors to make an outlay of capital for a less period than ten years.
 Mr. C. Wood  said it did not.
 Mr. Warburton  said, in that case the interests of the public had not been duly protected. In granting so great a mono", poly, the Government should have taken care that nothing beyond a certain sum should be charged for the conveyance of passengers.
 Mr. Warburton  wished to know if the contract made any provision for the rate of charge to be paid by passengers.
 Mr. Warburton , in bringing under the consideration of the House the subject of the contract or agreement made by the Admiralty for the conveyance of the mails to the West Indies and America, said, he considered that the Government were entitled to thanks for having made arrangements by which these mails would be carried by steam-ships instead of sailing packets. But he must complain that the Government had made a blind bargain, and that the House and the country had not been consulted, as they ought to have been, on a matter of so much importance as a contract of ten years' endurance, and for so large an amount as 240,000 l. l. l. l. 597 l.
 Sir John Hobhouse  was not aware that the Government had any intention to change their policy.
 Mr. Ewart  wished to ask the noble Lord if armed steamers were to be employed?
 Sir R. H. Inglis  seeing the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, in his place, begged to ask the noble Lord if any measure had been taken in pursuance of the discussions and address to the Crown of the last and present Session of Parliament, for the effectual suppression of the slave-trade, by adding to the strength of our naval force on the Brazils and coast of Africa. He believed our present naval force in these quarters quite inadequate for the purpose.
 Viscount Palmerston  could assure the hon. Baronet that her Majesty's Government had adopted proper measures for reinforcing the squadron on both those
 605 606
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that was a point which was open to some difference of opinion. But he believed his noble Friend at the head of the Admiralty had a steamer of war ready to proceed to the coast of Africa.
