 having moved a new writ for Edinburgh in the room of the right hon. T. B. Macauley, who since his election had accepted the office of her Majesty's Secretary at War,Mr. E. Stanley
Gazette,44London Gazette.London Gazette,43 said, that before the question was put, he wished to address to the Government a question which he had asked on the eve of the last prorogation, when he had inquired upon what principles the new Cabinet was to be constructed. That inquiry he now repeated. Having been informed that several Cabinet Ministers had resigned, or were about to resign, he had thought it would be no outrage on common decency or common sense to put the question just before the last prorogation, and on that occasion a Member of the Cabinet, whom he regretted not to see now in his place—he meant the right hon. Baronet, the President of the Board of Control—declared that the Cabinet was not to be reconstructed, and, therefore, there would be no alteration in its course of policy. Nay, the right hon. Baronet, not satisfied with that public declaration, condescended, with that courtesy which was characteristic of him, to cross the floor of the House, and to give as private information to him, that he had entirely misconceived the nature of the motion then before the House—that there had been no reconstruction of the Cabinet, and that he had been entirely misinformed. Yet, in a short time after the prorogation, nay, within twenty-four hours four Cabinet Ministers had either resigned or changed office, and among them was one not less eminent or distinguished than the noble Lord the Member for Stroud, who had been, and probably still was, the leader of her Majesty's Government in that House. Within a very few days after the proroga-
Gazette,44London Gazette.London Gazette,43Mr. D'Israeli
107106105 addressed the House as follows: In rising to move an address in answer to her Majesty's gracious Speech from the throne, I cannot but be convinced of my own incapacity for the adequate performance of the task which I have undertaken; but I trust that the House will, on this occasion, extend to me its indulgence. It will be my duty to call the attention of the House to the various important topics touched upon by her Majesty in the course of her Speech from her Throne; but, in doing so, I shall trespass as short a time as possible on the attention of the House, and in the observations that I shall make, I trust that no words will fall from me that will, in the slightest degree, tend to disturb that spirit of harmony and unanimity which it is so desirable should prevail on the present occasion. Indeed, I believe I am only stating, though most imperfectly, what must be passing within the mind of every hon. Member, when I declare my conviction that this House will, as of one accord, hail with the most lively joy and satisfaction the auspicious announcement which has been made to us this day, and that they
107106105The hon. G. H. Cavendish
 agreed with the hon. Baronet that the Ministers would have better discharged their duty by inserting the word "Protestant."Colonel Sibthorpe
101 contended, that the argument of the learned Attorney-General against ordering the sheriffs to produce their writs held equally good against ordering the inferior officer to produce his warrant. He hoped that the House would be consistent in their course on this occasion, and that if they required the inferior officer to produce his warrant, they would at the same time be prepared to face the real grounds of the conduct of the sheriffs in the performance of their public duty. He trusted that they did not already begin to flinch from the consequences of their pro-
101Mr. Law
 agreed with his hon. and learned Friend in thinking that the amendment was unnecessary, as the sheriffs would bring the writs as their justification; but he would not object to such an amendment.Lord J. Russell
1009998l.l.l.9796"This inconsistency in a person of Lord Kenyon's wonderful acuteness, as well as other
96"Was extra-judicial, and is open to investigation. The proposition asserted by him was, that no proceeding of either House of Parliament could be a libel. But with the highest reverence for that most learned judge, I must be allowed to observe, that he here confounds the nature of the composition with the occasion of publishing it.""I do believe, that if the court had deliberated and paused, they would have employed more cautious language, and abstained from laying down premises so much wider than their conclusion required. Lord Ellinborough, when pressed with their authority, distinctly refused to bow to it, corrected some phrases ascribed to several judges in the reports of both cases, and placed a limitation on the doctrines laid down by Chief Justice de Grey, without which it would have yielded to either House of Parliament the same arbitrary power over men's liberty, that the doctrine of ship-money would have lodged in the Crown over their property.""It must be confessed that his remarks on the state of public feeling rather evince the spirit of a political partisan, than the calmness and independence which become the judicial seat.""The Lord Mayor had manifestly committed a breach of privilege: the grounds of it are fully set out in the Speaker's warrant. Nothing could, therefore, be less needful or less judicial than the wide assertion of privilege that was volunteered by the Chief Justice. Yet, after all that he said respecting the indefinite powers of Parliament, his decision rests on the simple ground that all courts have power to commit for contempt."95l94 had hoped that the motion which he had made would have been assented to by the House, reserving the general discussion of this subject to the time when the parties should appear at the bar. The debate that evening had been
1009998l.l.l.9796"This inconsistency in a person of Lord Kenyon's wonderful acuteness, as well as other
96"Was extra-judicial, and is open to investigation. The proposition asserted by him was, that no proceeding of either House of Parliament could be a libel. But with the highest reverence for that most learned judge, I must be allowed to observe, that he here confounds the nature of the composition with the occasion of publishing it.""I do believe, that if the court had deliberated and paused, they would have employed more cautious language, and abstained from laying down premises so much wider than their conclusion required. Lord Ellinborough, when pressed with their authority, distinctly refused to bow to it, corrected some phrases ascribed to several judges in the reports of both cases, and placed a limitation on the doctrines laid down by Chief Justice de Grey, without which it would have yielded to either House of Parliament the same arbitrary power over men's liberty, that the doctrine of ship-money would have lodged in the Crown over their property.""It must be confessed that his remarks on the state of public feeling rather evince the spirit of a political partisan, than the calmness and independence which become the judicial seat.""The Lord Mayor had manifestly committed a breach of privilege: the grounds of it are fully set out in the Speaker's warrant. Nothing could, therefore, be less needful or less judicial than the wide assertion of privilege that was volunteered by the Chief Justice. Yet, after all that he said respecting the indefinite powers of Parliament, his decision rests on the simple ground that all courts have power to commit for contempt."95l94Lord John Russell
122121 by no means wished to disturb that harmony of feeling which seemed to pervade the House on the subject of the Address, but there were one or two points suggested by the right hon. Baronet to which he wished slightly to refer. The right hon. Gentleman had asked, whether it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to propose a vote with relation to those persons who were engaged in the late expedition in India? To this his reply was, his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Controul would give a notice on the subject. He differed from the right hon Baronet in the remarks he had made on the subject of Jamaica, inasmuch as he considered, that the happiness of that colony would have been far better secured by the former bill than it was by the present state of affairs. He was far from being satisfied with the administration of justice in Jamaica—he did not think, that justice had been fairly and impartially administered by certain parties there. Let the Assembly of Jamaica provide an adequate remedy for that evil—let them take measures to secure the fair and impartial administration of justice, and he would be then ready to accede to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, that benefits had accrued from the course pursued last year; but he did not think the colony ought to be satisfied with a state in which justice was not properly dispensed, Till
122121Lord John Russell
 said, that it was with great regret he felt himself impelled by a sense of duty to interpose before the reading of the Speech from the Throne, more especially upon the present occasion. But it was a duty, the performance of which, he could not avoid, as it was incumbent upon him, as a Member of that House, to regard its rights and privileges. There had been placed in his hands, a petition of Messrs. Luke and James Hansard, styling themselves, and properly styling themselves, the printers of that House, and containing matters of grave and deep importance to the rights and privileges of that House. So much, however, depended upon an accurate statement of the facts contained in the petition, that he thought the best course which he could pursue, and the best mode of performing his duty to the House, was to request, that the petition be read from the Table, rather than attempt to enter substantially into its details. He would content himself at present with stating that the petition related to certain proceedings which had taken place in consequence of an order given by that House on the 1st of August last, by which order the petitioners conceived themselves to be bound in an action, which had since taken place, with regard to certain publications sold by them according to the order of the House, and it appeared by the petition that certain goods, their property, had been taken in consequence of their acting in obedience to that order. His Lordship concluded by moving that the petition be read.Lord J. Russell
50l. said he had a further motion to make, for it was incumbent upon the House to lose no time in coming to a decision upon this question. Indeed, it was hardly necessary for him to urge the importance of so doing, for every Member must be fully impressed with the necessity of coming to some speedy decision. He need only say, that whichever way the House decided, the question was one which could not possibly be left in the position in which it at present stood. It appeared from the statement of facts contained in the petition, that property of the petitioners to the amount of 69050l.Lord J. Russell,
 stated, that the House had been to the House of Peers, where her Majesty had been pleased to deliver a Speech from her Throne, a copy of which he had procured, which he would read to the House.The Speaker
v.v.84d.s.Russell838281 wished to say a few words with a view to state on what ground it was he should oppose the motion of the noble Lord. If he understood the grounds upon which the noble Lord proceeded, they were these: that the judges had no jurisdiction, that they could not lawfully give a judgment in the cause, and that, therefore, there was no lawful ground for
v.v.84d.s.Russell838281Mr. Cresswell
58v.l.l.l.5756v.v."That what was printed for the use of the Members was certainly a privileged communication; but he was not prepared to say, that to circulate a copy of that which was intended for the use of Members, if it contained matter of an injurious tendency to the character of an individual, was legitimate and could not be made the ground of prosecution. He would hesitate to pronounce it a proceeding in Parliament in the terms given by some of the judges in that case."v.v.v.l.v.v.5554v.v.v.53habeas corpus,habeas corpus,habeas corpus52habeas corpus.51 said, that as the noble Lord intended to follow up this motion by moving for the attendance of the others whom he had named, and requiring the attendance of the sheriff, he feared that; such a course would only tend to throw additional difficulties in the way, which he would shortly state to the House. He fully concurred in the opinion, that things could not remain in the state in which they now were. It was decidedly necessary that some step should be taken. No one was more disposed than he to assert and vindicate the just privileges of the House; but it was impossible to disguise the fact, that if the sheriff were to be called, to the bar and
58v.l.l.l.5756v.v."That what was printed for the use of the Members was certainly a privileged communication; but he was not prepared to say, that to circulate a copy of that which was intended for the use of Members, if it contained matter of an injurious tendency to the character of an individual, was legitimate and could not be made the ground of prosecution. He would hesitate to pronounce it a proceeding in Parliament in the terms given by some of the judges in that case."v.v.v.l.v.v.5554v.v.v.53habeas corpus,habeas corpus,habeas corpus52habeas corpus.51Sir E. Sugden
 hoped the noble Lord would consent to an amendment, to the effect that the sheriffs and under sheriffs be ordered to bring with them all writs, rules, and other authorities, under which they might have acted.Mr. F. Kelly
 moved an amendment to the effect before stated by him.Mr. Kelly
v.9392 would not have risen to address the House upon this occasion but for some observations which had fallen from the hon. and learned Attorney-general, in answer to which he felt called upon to say a few words. The hon. and learned Gentleman had asked whether, if they submitted themselves to the Court of Queen's Bench on this occasion—if they recognised the jurisdiction and the power of that court to entertain the question of their privileges, they must not, in like manner, admit the same jurisdiction and the same power to exist in every court, of whatever character or rant, which could entertain an action of libel? He was prepared to admit that proposition as correct, but he contended that, a defendant having once recognised the authority of any court, by answering to an action commenced in it, could not object to the cause being decided, and that it was the bounden and imperative duty of the judge who presided in the court to pronounce judgment in favour of the plaintiff,
v.9392Mr. Fitz Roy Kelly
 said, there were two questions in relation to the Speech to which be wished to advert. One was the state of the currency of the country; and the other was the Corn-law. One of these was attributable to the right hon. Baronet opposite, and the other to the Duke of Wellington. These were the main causes of the commercial distress alluded to by her Majesty's Speech, and he hoped they would receive due attention soon after the Address had been agreed to.Mr. Wallace
 thought the amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman quite unnecessary. The writs to which he referred formed the justification of the sheriffs, and he apprehended, that they would bring them of their own accord as a part of their defence. The object of producing the warrant was to show that the officer had acted under the authority of the sheriff.The Attorney-General
696867v.66prima faciel.6564v.63l.v.62 If I had taken no part in this debate, I think I might have been excused by the House, seeing that I am within an hour of my return from the discharge of very important official duties —duties which, for the last three weeks, have entirely absorbed my attention—duties which must have come within the knowledge of every member of the House, and which I have performed to the best of
696867v.66prima faciel.6564v.63l.v.62The Attorney-General.
616059 hoped the Attorney-general, or some other Member of the Government, would rise before the debate closed, to answer, or rather to attempt to answer, the able speech of his right hon. Friend who had just sat down. The Attorney-general there, as well as in the Court of Queen's Bench, had upon his case, allowed judgment to go by default, and he hoped he would yet rise to state his opin-
616059Sir Robert Inglis
112111 did not wish to disturb the unanimity which the House must be disposed to exhibit on such an occasion, but he did not wish that the House should be held to adopt every word of the Address unguarded by any declaration of disapproval as to part of its contents. Under these circumstances, he felt it to be his duty, and he hoped he felt it to be a painful duty, to offer a few words to the House on the present occasion. He could have wished that her Majesty were surrounded by Ministers who would have felt it to be their duty most respectfully to have hinted to her Majesty the propriety of delivering this speech by royal commissioners. He must next proceed to state, that there was a remarkable omission in the Speech, and, as it now appeared, not
112111Sir R. Inglis
9190898887l"1. That Messrs. Hansard, in printing and publishing a report and minutes of evidence on the present state of the Islands of New Zealand, communicated by the House of Lords to this House on the 7th of August, 1838, acted under the orders of this House: and that to bring or assist in bringing any action against them for such publication, would be a breach of the privileges of this House: and 2. That Messrs. Hansard be directed not to answer the letter of Charles Shaw, mentioned in their petition, and not to take any step towards defending the action with which they are threatened in the said letter."8685 said that it was important the House should clearly understand the position in which they stood with respect to this question, not that he meant thereby to bind their judgment, but because it was necessary that they should be aware of the course which they themselves had taken. In the year 1837, a committee was appointed by that House, composed of many of the most eminent legal authorities in it; that Committee united the hon. and learned Member for Edinburgh (the Attorney-General), Mr. Sergeant Wilde, his hon. and learned friend the Member
9190898887l"1. That Messrs. Hansard, in printing and publishing a report and minutes of evidence on the present state of the Islands of New Zealand, communicated by the House of Lords to this House on the 7th of August, 1838, acted under the orders of this House: and that to bring or assist in bringing any action against them for such publication, would be a breach of the privileges of this House: and 2. That Messrs. Hansard be directed not to answer the letter of Charles Shaw, mentioned in their petition, and not to take any step towards defending the action with which they are threatened in the said letter."8685Sir Robert Peel
sine qua non,"My Dear Viscount—Here is a note on which to hang your declaration as to piracy. You will briefly first state your objection to the demand as unwarrantable: secondly, propose a penal law inflicting secondary punishment on slave traders; thirdly, remark that no European Power, except England, has declared the trade piracy; and, fourthly, declare the readiness of Portugal to act in concert with the other Powers, although unwilling to take the initiative. This strikes me as the best case you can make out, wording your conclusion strongly against the slave trade."sine qua non.sine qua non117116115: Sir, I feel that there is a general indisposition on the part of Members of this House to choose the present occasion for commenting on general affairs; and I heartily join in the general desire that we should be enabled not only to concur in the Address which has been moved by the hon. Member opposite without amendment, but that we should also be able to do so without the introduction of those topics which might lead to acrimonious discussion. Sir, I fully participate in what I collect to be the general feeling of this House. Of late years the policy of Governments has been to avoid the introduction in the Speech of any topics compelling political opponents to propose amendments. The policy of opposition has also been of late years to discourage amendments. Sir, I should not, under ordinary circumstances, feel myself at all bound by that custom; but I do feel that the present are not ordinary circumstances. I feel that on an occasion in which the Speech from the Throne announces the approaching nuptials of the Sovereign I should not be justified in making any deviation from the usual practice; and I should, therefore, he extremely unwilling to disturb the unanimity of the House by proposing any amendment. I am bound also to say that the nature of the speeches we have heard delivered by the Mover and Seconder of the Address does, as far as possible, take away all necessity for amendment, and diminishes very much the temptation, which the excited state of public feeling affords to bring on a full discussion. At the same time I entirely agree with my hon. Friend that by now permitting the address to pass without amendment we are not only not concluded on the subjects introduced into the Speech from the Throne, but that we reserve to ourselves a full right to inquire into the conduct of the Queen's Government. I shall reserve to myself full power to express an opinion on the state of public affairs and the political acts of her Majesty's Ministers. Sir, I must now be allowed to say for myself, and for those with whom I have the honour to act, that we cordially participate in the congratulations which the
sine qua non,"My Dear Viscount—Here is a note on which to hang your declaration as to piracy. You will briefly first state your objection to the demand as unwarrantable: secondly, propose a penal law inflicting secondary punishment on slave traders; thirdly, remark that no European Power, except England, has declared the trade piracy; and, fourthly, declare the readiness of Portugal to act in concert with the other Powers, although unwilling to take the initiative. This strikes me as the best case you can make out, wording your conclusion strongly against the slave trade."sine qua non.sine qua non117116115Sir Robert Peel
110"They hear a voice in every wind, And snatch a fearful joy."109108 said, in rising to second the address which we have just heard read, in answer to her Majesty's most gracious Speech from the Throne, I shall, as far as possible, endeavour to follow the example that has been set me by the hon. Member who has preceded me, and abstain from any topic of an irritating nature, or which might have
110"They hear a voice in every wind, And snatch a fearful joy."109108Sir William Somerville
80"Great inconvenience having arisen from the publication of minutes of evidence taken before committees, and of papers, &c, laid before them, it is particularly requested, that Members receiving such minutes and papers will be careful that they are confined to the object for which they are printed—the special use of the members of such committees."797877"Roaring till their lungs be spent, Privilege of Parliament!"7675747372"Privileges, that is, immunities and safeguards, are necessary for the protection of the House of Commons in the exercise of its high functions. All the subjects of this realm have derived, are deriving, and I trust and believe will continue to derive, the greatest benefits from the exercise of those functions. All persons ought to be very tender in preserving to the House all privileges which may be necessary for their exercise.""There is no doubt about the right as exercised by the two Houses of Parliament, with regard to contempts or insults offered to the House, either within or without their walls; there is no doubt either as to the freedom of their Members from arrest, nor of their right to summon witnesses, to require the production of papers and records, and the right of printing documents for the use of the Members of the constitutional body, and as to any other thing which may appear to be necessary to carry on and conduct the great and important functions of their charge."71"I do not know to whom the Attorney-general alluded, as disputing the existence of any parliamentary privilege. No such opinion has come under my notice. That Parliament enjoys privileges of the most important character, no person capable of the least reflection can doubt for a moment,
7170 owned it appeared to him, that this proceeding was neither more nor less, than a first step towards an attack upon the judges. He thought, that no Member was entitled to vote for this motion, unless he was prepared for its necessary consequences—unless he was ready at some future opportunity to give his vole that the judges of the land should also be summoned to the bar of that House. Would the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies undertake to say, that such might not be one consequence of his motion, and that he himself might not be the person to move it? He would, therefore, entreat the House, before it ventured upon the first step, to reflect upon the final issue. He asked them whether the present feeling of the country was such as to render it politic or safe, to impair the reverence and authority due to the courts of law. When he looked to all the dangers with which they were surrounded, and to what he thought, the greatest of all, that the spell of prescription had been broken, and the habit of obedience lost amidst so many legislative changes, he should well nigh despair of the destinies of his country, if he could not rely on the unshaken firmness and incorruptible integrity of the judges of England. It was no ordinary matter to tamper with that authority. It was no light thing to tell the people of this country, that they, their representatives, were prepared to set the example of resisting and of defying the eminent men who are sworn to administer the law. Did hon.
80"Great inconvenience having arisen from the publication of minutes of evidence taken before committees, and of papers, &c, laid before them, it is particularly requested, that Members receiving such minutes and papers will be careful that they are confined to the object for which they are printed—the special use of the members of such committees."797877"Roaring till their lungs be spent, Privilege of Parliament!"7675747372"Privileges, that is, immunities and safeguards, are necessary for the protection of the House of Commons in the exercise of its high functions. All the subjects of this realm have derived, are deriving, and I trust and believe will continue to derive, the greatest benefits from the exercise of those functions. All persons ought to be very tender in preserving to the House all privileges which may be necessary for their exercise.""There is no doubt about the right as exercised by the two Houses of Parliament, with regard to contempts or insults offered to the House, either within or without their walls; there is no doubt either as to the freedom of their Members from arrest, nor of their right to summon witnesses, to require the production of papers and records, and the right of printing documents for the use of the Members of the constitutional body, and as to any other thing which may appear to be necessary to carry on and conduct the great and important functions of their charge."71"I do not know to whom the Attorney-general alluded, as disputing the existence of any parliamentary privilege. No such opinion has come under my notice. That Parliament enjoys privileges of the most important character, no person capable of the least reflection can doubt for a moment,
7170Lord Mahon
114113 thought, that nothing was more clearly understood in Parliament than that an address of the present description did not pledge the opinion of any Member to the several points of general policy touched on in the Speech. He should have, therefore, concluded that a Member of so great experience as the hon. Baronet, ought not to have thought it necessary to guard himself against the expression of any opinion approving of the general policy of the Government. Nor should he have thought it necessary to rise, but that like the hon. Baronet, he was anxious that by his silence he should not be supposed to acquiesce in the inferences and conclusions drawn from some points adverted to in the Speech. Now, in the first place, as to the omission of the statement of the religion of the Prince to whom her Majesty was about to be united in marriage, he thought the House would at once see that it was wholly unnecessary for her Ma-
114113Viscount Palmerston
120119118 felt no hesitation in giving the explanation which was required. In the first place, the negociations with Portugal for the purpose of obtaining an adequate treaty, were continued during more than four years, and were divided into several stages. The private note to which the right hon. Baronet referred was written
120119118Viscount Palmerston
 called in, and placed at the bar.Mr. Stockdale
 was, accordingly, ordered to withdraw. When he had retired,Mr. Stockdale
 assured the House that he had no desire to put any question that, in his humble judgment, was not material to the elucidation of the point—whether a breach of privilege had been committed or not. If it were the opinion of the House that the question he had put to Mr. Stockdale had not a direct bearing upon that point—that it was not necessary to the elucidation of the matter so as to enable the House to form a correct opinion upon the subject, he would not persevere in it.The Attorney General
131bona fide said, that he thought the House ought to have all the circumstances of the case before it. The objection to the question in the present instance came not from the hon. baronet (Sir R. Inglis) opposite, but from Mr. Stockdale himself. But he really did not see why Mr. Stockdale should object to it, if the action had been brought by him 131bona fideMr. O'Connell
 resumed the examination of Mr. Stockdale, who was again at the bar.The Attorney General
: My second son.Mr. Stockdale
: What did you do with the copy which you so procured? I have it in my own possession now.The Attorney General
: Thomas Burton Howard.Mr. Stockdale
: Have you brought any former actions against Messrs. Hansard?—I have.The Attorney General
135: I withdraw the question, and now, let me ask you, have you had any notice served upon you with respect to the resolution of the House of Commons?—I have; I think two days,
135The Attorney General
: Have you brought any copy of the notice you received with you?—No.By Lord John Russell
: In point of fact, have you any objection to admit that you brought the action to try the power of the House?—I trust I shall be protected from committing myself.By Mr. O'Connell
: I think that the question may very properly be put.Mr. O'Connell
 was ordered to withdraw.Mr. Stockdale
 withdrew his question, in order that that suggested by the right hon. Baronet might be put.Mr. O'Connell
 to suggest that Mr. Stockdale should be at liberty to make any explanation he might deem necessary; and not be confined to the mere admission that he wrote the letter in question. Because Mr. Stockdale might have written the letter under an impression that he had been injured by a tyrannical exercise of the power of the House; and with a conviction that he had a common law right of action, of which the House could not deprive him.Mr. Law begged
 replied that Mr. Stockdale, in common with any other person who might be called to the bar of that House, would have ample opportunities of making any explanation he might deem necessary.The Attorney General
 was again called in.Mr. Stockdale
 addressing him, said: Will you be good enough to tell me whether you are the author of this letter? It bears date 27th August, 1839, and purports to be addressed by you to Messrs. Hansard. It is as follows: [the right hon. and learned Gentleman read the letter at length; and a printed copy of it was placed in the hands of Mr. Stockdale, who, as he received the book, said; Allow me to observe that I have never seen this book, Mr. Attorney.]The Attorney General
: Will you tell me whether you wrote the letter of which that purports to be a copy?—I do not at all doubt it.The Attorney General
 ordered to withdraw.Mr. Stockdale
141l admitted, that the ground on which they were proceeding was not the particular language made use of by Mr. Stockdale in his letter, but it was the fact of his deliberately bringing an action to call in question the privileges of the House, and to treat as a libel that which had been published by order of the House of Commons. He thought that was ample ground for the House taking the step now proposed. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the Recorder of the city of London, had said that this was a meagre case. What facts did the hon. Gentleman want for forming his judgment? It was in evidence, and not disputed, that there was published by the authority of the House a certain report on which Mr. Stockdale brought an action. There was a justification pleaded, that the imputation cast was true, and that the book was an obscene publication. A special jury unanimously came to the conclusion that it was an obscene publication, there was a verdict for the plaintiff, and subsequently a new trial was refused. Then Stockdale brought a second action for the same cause, admitting, that he was at the time fully aware, that the publication was authorised by the House of Commons. To that action there was no plea of justification, but merely a demurrer to the jurisdiction, and Stockdale recovered 100141lThe Attorney General
149148v.147146l145 said, it was with sincere
149148v.147146l145Mr. Pemberton
 explained, that what he had said was, that the case came before the House of Lords on a motion in arrest of judgment. The House of Lords as a court of error, could only consider the record, which made no mention of the resolution of the House of Commons, and therefore he had said, that the resolutions of the House was not before the House of Lords.The Attorney General
160159158l157lll156lllv.155v.v.154153vvv152v151150 was quite sure that his hon and learned Friend had not been intentionally inacurate, and that he had misunderstood him on the former occasion, but it did not in the least affect the point to which he was anxious to draw their attention. They were told, that the privilege now in question was not the privilege of the House of Commons only, but of Parliament; that the Houses of Lords and Commons were the court of Parliament, and that it was from their decision that the Queen's subjects must take the law of privilege. He implored the attention of the House to what the House of Lords had resolved upon this subject, on which it was said the jurisdiction of both Houses was concurrent, and of equal authority. The resolution of the House of Lords of the 27th of March, 1704, was, that any person has a right to maintain an action against an officer who illegally rejected his vote; that the declaring Matthew Ashby guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House of Commons, for prosecuting an
160159158l157lll156lllv.155v.v.154153vvv152v151150Mr. Pemberton
176v.175174 observed that the noble Lord would now see the consequences of endeavouring to conciliate Gentlemen opposite. The question was, whether he should enter into a compromise with the right hon. and learned Gentleman as to the form of proceeding; and the noble Lord was now told that, if he did so, they must at that late hour renew the whole discussion. By this means they would have the remainder of the night taken up by the discussion on this question alone. The greater part of the discussion of that night had been on the question as to whether or not they should put in force and adhere to the resolutions which they passed on this matter in 1837 and 1839. The able argument of the right hon. Member for Ripon was directed to this point. The effect of the resolutions was to declare that the House would act with vigour on them; and having so decided, if they now resolved not to act upon them they would stultify themselves, and their proceedings would appear to be perfectly ridiculous. Hon. Gentlemen did not manfully propose to rescind the resolutions, but they resolved that they should remain in full force, but that they should have no effect whatever. Thus, then, instead of the House acting vigorously and with decision in vindication of its privileges, it was not to act at all. When he heard hon. and learned Gentleman talk so much of popularity and love of liberty, he could not help congratulating hon. Gentlemen on the client whom they have to defend. Hon. Gentlemen opposite were perfectly silent when they heard that the people of England were to bear the expenses of these proceedings, and to be liable to the damages that might be given in these actions; but when he alluded to their client, Mr. Stockdale, he was immediately met with a Conservative cry of "oh." Had they forgotten that Mr. Stockdale had been convicted of publishing indecent libels? and yet this was the person who was under the special protec-
176v.175174Mr. O'Connell
: That is false.Mr. O'Connell
 in his turn, would appeal to the Speaker. The hon. Baronet had charged him with having traduced the women of England, and that charge was false.Mr. O'Connell,
177 replied that if the hon. Baronet imputed to him that he had traduced the women of England the hon Baronet said that which was untrue, and
177Mr. O'Connell
 said, he had gone too far; he should have said, "which the hon. Baronet ought to know to be untrue."Mr. O'Connell
 would appeal to the Speaker. He had been accused of making a charge against the women of England; ought not that charge to be withdrawn, being, as it was, utterly unfounded.Mr. O'Connell
 said, he would at once withdraw the expression he had used, and he called upon the hon. Baronet opposite to do the same.Mr. O'Connell
 said, he could not hesitate one moment in assuring the hon. Baronet and the House that such a charge was totally false.Mr. O'Connell
v.180 said it was most painful for him to come into collision with the Court of Queen's Bench, where he had practised all his life, and where he should continue to practise, while he had the honour of belonging to the legal profession. If he had exerted himself to defend the privileges of the Commons of England
v.180The Attorney General
 said, the sheriffs, at all events, had shown no disrespect to that House, and had only discharged their duty. They had delayed the execution of the order of the. Court of Queen's Bench to the last moment, and had shewn very great deference to the House. He hoped they would be dismissed without being summoned to the bar of the House.Captain T. Wood
 said, if it were possible to call the sheriffs to the bar and finish that night, it would be very desirable; but from information he had received he believed it was totally impossible, that that could be accomplished. According to the common practice of the Court of Queen's Bench, the case would certainly not be argued to-morrow, and he was informed, that there was no possibility of the rule being made absolute to-morrow that the money should be paid over to Mr. Stockdale's assignees. The House might, therefore, rest on a well-grounded belief, that the sheriffs would be in the same position on Monday.The Attorney General
: I certainly can give no such assurance.The Attorney General
179 said, that although the charge which had been made against him by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was wholly irrelevant to the matter under consideration, yet if the majority of the House was composed of Gentlemen sensible, as heretofore, to attacks on private character, it would not refuse to listen to the few words which he had to say in his own vindication. He complained of the tone, manner, and assertions of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, as conveying an imputation upon him that he had, on the seat of justice, improperly and unnecessarily introduced topics of a political character, reflecting on the administration of Lord Normanby in Ireland. It was very easy to pervert what had been truly and properly said, arising out of a proceeding before a court, and by skilful perversion of the words employed in a newspaper, to frame a commentary such as that which had been made by the hon. and learned Member. That was not the proper place to go into particulars, but he did feel it to be his duty to say, that the hon. and learned Member, unintentionally, he had no doubt, for he could not believe that one so sensitive of any observations reflecting on himself, could be so ungenerous as, contrary to his better knowledge, to asperse the character of another; he must say the hon. and learned Member had most unjustly misrepresented any words which had fallen from him in the discharge of his judicial duties. He certainly never intended to mix up political matters and references to Lord Normanby with any judicial proceedings. He did not believe any one ever heard the name of that nobleman breathed from his lips while he sat on the seat of justice. The story which had been so much ornamented by the hon. and learned Member originated in this:—there having been of late a great increase of crimes of violence against the person, upon the suggestion that there might be circumstances in some cases entitling them to more favourable consideration, he did take leave to observe when offences were rife, some example was necessary, even if a mistaken lenity had been elsewhere exhibited. That observation arose out of no political feeling, nor had he any intention of calling in question the policy pursued in Ireland, or
179Mr. Law
173 could not consent to withdraw his amendment and to have an entirely-new resolution substituted, involving entirely new questions, and not setting forth the whole, and therefore not setting forth the true facts of the case. It would be most unjust to the individual who had been brought before them merely to state that he had commenced these proceedings, without adding that he had done so after his right to maintain his action had been adjudicated upon. If justice was intended to be done—and he could not conceive that there was any other intention—it was unfair to state acts without the circumstances affording an exculpation or explanation of them. The resolution which set forth that the party had presumed to bring this action ought also to set forth that he had been suffered to succeed in a former action, and that the courts of law had held that the action was maintainable, so as to bring before the House the precise point whether, although the party had committed a breach of the privileges of the House, he had done so under circumstances which showed that the breach was a wilful one, and one which ought properly to be made the subject of punishment. The fact was truly what the House had extracted from Mr. Stockdale when he appeared at their bar, that Mr. Stockdale had instituted these proceedings for the purpose of trying in a court of law whether the privilege contended for really existed, and did so, under a firm conviction that the law would maintain him in the course which he had taken, and that at common law he was entitled to proceed. When it was proposed to him to withdraw his amendment, he must require that the new motion should set the case upon its proper footing, and should state that the proceedings now under consider-
173Mr. Law
138 addressed the House, and observed, that he did not consider a very precise case had been presented by her Majesty's Attorney-general, through the examination of the party at the bar, or that a case had been sufficiently made out to justify this court; in many of its outward forms it was a court, though it might not be in substance—to justify this House to proceed to adjudicate upon it in the terms proposed by the noble Lord. It was true they had extorted from the party under examination an admission that he had written a particular letter—a letter, no doubt, in point of style indecorous, in point of taste of the worst description, and in the application of its terms to be reprobated by any one of good taste or judgment; still, substantially, that letter merely asserted that a particular privilege claimed by this House was one which the legal tribunals of the country had not found to be substantiated—a privilege which he, as a British subject was prepared to contest in a British court of justice, and that as a party in such contest, and being further questioned upon the subject at the bar of the House, he most distinctly and unequivocally declared his firm conviction, that by the laws of the country he was entitled to maintain the action he had brought. And was it to be endured that the privileges of this House which had been submitted to solemn adjudication in a court
138Mr. Law
 rose to order. This motion could not be put from the chair, as there was an amendment on the previous motion.Mr. Law
: Allow me to ask whether, when you wrote this letter, you were impressed with the belief that, as a British subject, yon were entitled by the law of the land to commence an action?—Most undoubtedly.By Mr. Law
 was anxious, before the House were called upon to vote, that the question should be distinctly understood. He wished to know whether the breach of privilege alleged against Stockdale consisted in writing the letter which appeared in their minutes, and which was so worded as to justify not only reprobation, but punishment? If this were the ground of their proceedings, he should, for one, give his concurrence to the motion of the noble Lord; but, on the contrary, if the question to be affirmed was, that Mr. Stockdale had been guilty of a breach of privilege for merely calling into question, before a court of justice, one of the assumed privileges of the House, then, in consistency with the votes he had al ready given, he could not concur with the noble Lord.Lord Eliot
172171 wished to answer the questions which had been put to him by the right hon. Member for Ripon, and likewise to suggest some alteration in the form of proceeding which he had proposed. The right hon. Gentleman had asked him, in the first place, whether it were proper to go into the rest of the cases, and hear what the other persons who were summoned to the Bar to-day had to state in their de-
172171Lord J. Russell
143142 confessed, that he
143142Lord John Russell
 then rose and said: After the statement made by Mr. Stockdale, I can only now move that Mr. Stockdale, having brought an action against Messrs. Hansard for the publication of a report ordered by this House to be printed, has been guilty of a high contempt and breach of the privileges of this House.Lord John Russell
 said his intention was to conclude the case with regard to Mr. Stockdale, and afterwards proceed against the other parties.Lord John Russell
 then moved that John Joseph Stockdale, for the said breach of privilege, be committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this House, and that the Speaker do issue his warrant for his committal,Lord J. Russell
193 said, that the conduct of the sheriffs in this case had certainly been a breach of the privileges of the House, as they had seized the goods of
193Lord J. Russell
188 said, the state of the question in his view of it was this. The House in 1837 had entered into certain resolutions with respect to the power of publishing the evidence taken before committees of the House, and to its belonging to the House, and to its being essential to the exercise of the functions of the House as a branch of the Legislature; also, with respect to the House being the sole judge of their own privileges, and declaring that the bringing those privileges in question before any other court was a high breach of the privilege of Parliament, rendering any one who committed it liable to the displeasure of the House. These were not, as had been lately and in the course of the debate that evening stated, any new privileges. They were the ancient privileges of Parliament. It appeared that Stockdale had acted in direct contravention of those resolutions. It appeared that he had brought an action in a court of law, in contempt of those resolutions, and had obtained judgment in that action. What, then, was the proper course for that House to adopt? It was competent for them to pursue their course on the resolutions of 1837, or it was competent for them to abandon those resolutions altogether. Not to proceed against Stockdale, and yet to maintain those resolutions would be to place the House in an absurd and ridiculous position, and he did not think that the House would assent to such a proposition. With respect to the questions of hon. and learned Gentlemen, when the hon. and learned Gentleman asked whether the warrant would contain the causes of committal, and in what manner it would be expressed, he (Lord J. Russell) would say, that it was not for him to state what ought to be the course of the House, but the House had heard the Attorney-general state what in his judgment was the proper course, and, therefore, he thought it probable that the House would agree to that course, and that the warrant would not contain any particulars, or any recital of the causes of committal, but that Stockdale would be committed as having been guilty of a breach of privilege. But the hon. Gentleman put a further question, and asked what, supposing the warrant not to be framed in that form, but to set out the cause of committal,
188Lord J. Russell
 said, when so many Members had gone away, it was quite impossible for him to consent to go on with the case that night. He thought the best course would be, to meet to-morrow at twelve o'clock, and then go on with the case. He would therefore move, that the sheriffs be summoned to attend at the bar to-morrow at twelve o'clock.Lord J. Russell
123 said, that the resolution was entered into with regard to open interference in the early part of the last century, in consequence of the gross inter-
123Lord J. Russell
 could not consent to that proposal, as it would carry the order beyond the bounds of its original intention.Lord John Russell
126 said, the question was, whether the House should have the power of excluding strangers, if necessary. The question of the admission of strangers, by way of indulgence, had been a matter of discussion a long time, but he would put it to the House whether, by remitting this order, strangers should be allowed to gain entrance as a right, to be present at
126Lord John Russell
 moved the reading of the usual Sessional Orders. When the order for the prevention of the interference of Peers at elections was being read,Lord J. Russell
: You must answer the question.The Speaker
: You must answer the question.The Speaker
: What is your name?—John Joseph Stockdale.The Speaker
 said that most undoubtedly if one hon. Gentleman imputed to another that he said that which was untrue he was out of order.The Speaker
 intimated that the hon. and learned Gentleman, having already spoken on the question, could only now be heard in explanation.The Speaker
 said, if the hon. and learned Gentleman denied the truth of that assertion, he was quite sure the hon. Baronet would not persist in his statement. He felt it to be the duty of the hon. Baronet to withdraw that statement, and he should equally call upon the hon. and learned Member for Dublin to withdraw the expression he had used, and which was quite contrary to the orders of the House—namely, the imputing to another hon. Member that he had stated that which he knew to be untrue, or which he ought to know to be untrue.The Speaker
 must require a more unqualified retractation. The hon. and learned Gentleman ought not to state that another hon. Gentleman had said that which he knew to be untrue.The Speaker
 said, he must call upon the hon. and learned Gentleman to with draw the expression he had used. He understood the hon. and learned Gentleman to have stated, that another hon. Gentleman had said that which he knew to be untrue.The Speaker
 said, that it could not be moved unless the hon. Member consented to withdraw his amendment; but if he did that, the original motion might then be withdrawn, and this motion be afterwards made.The Speaker
190189 said, he should not have trespassed upon the House but that the noble Lord had somewhat misconceived
190189Mr. Cresswell
 thought that the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down did not deal justly with the noble Lord, who had only amended his motion in compliance with the suggestions offered to the noble Lord by him and those who sat on his side of the House.Sir E. Sugden
168Attorney-Generalhabeas corpus167v.v166 rose, not for the purpose of carrying further the discussion of the question then before the House, but rather for the purpose of putting a question to the noble Lord opposite, and to the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney-general. There appeared to him to be considerable difficulty in carrying the discussion much further at present; but, without occupying the time of the House with any observations of that nature, he should content himself with inquiring from the noble Lord and the learned Attorney-general, what they intended to ask of Mr. Stockdale when he should next appear at the bar of that House—what did they propose to do when the time came for asking Mr. Stock-dale whether he had anything to offer in defence or explanation of the conduct which he had pursued? Was it their intention to put that question at the next stage of the proceedings, or at that which was to follow the next? Did they mean to make the enquiry when he was called to the bar, or subsequently to the intended order for his committal? Eight different persons had been required to attend, some were treated as witnesses, some otherwise. The noble Lord had begun by treating these parties as witnesses, but had conceded to him that they were not before the House in that character. Yet the hon. and learned Attorney-general had treated Mr. Stockdale as a witness, at least had spoken of him as a witness, and yet had put some questions as though he were not a witness. Although he did not for a moment affirm, that the House of Commons was bound to follow the practice of a court of law in its mode of proceeding, yet unless there were some very strong reason for departing from the rules and usages of the courts, he thought that legal forms had much better be observed; and he took it for granted, that no opportunities of being heard would be denied to Mr. Stockdale, when he stated anything necessary to his defence or vindication. They must first call Stockdale to
168Attorney-Generalhabeas corpus167v.v166Sir E. Sugden
195 said, it would be very inconvenient to follow that course. To call on all the under sheriffs to attend at the bar of the House during the day-time, unless there was some great necessity for it, would be exposing the public to the greatest possible inconvenience. He begged leave to
195Mr. Kelly
187habeas corpus186 said, it was of the last importance that the House should distinctly understand the course which the noble Lord opposite intended to pursue. The noble Lord originally proposed a resolution to the effect that Stockdale was guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House, and for some time, the House was in ignorance whether the alleged breach of privilege consisted in writing a libellous letter reflecting on the House. He was in the recollection of the House as to whether the noble Lord, the Member for East Cornwall did not rise and put the question to the Attorney-general, and whether before an answer was given to that question, the real nature of the breach of privilege was properly understood. But he presumed it was now to be taken that the supposed breach of privilege consisted in the bringing of an action calculated to call in question the privileges of the House. At that late hour, it was not his intention to enter into the discussion of the matter, and he rose only for the purpose of entreating the noble Lord opposite to inform the House whether he had at all taken into consideration this question. Supposing the House agreed to authorize the Speaker to issue his warrant for the committal of Mr. Stockdale, would that war-
187habeas corpus186Mr. Kelly
128 begged to inquire whether the more correct and formal course of proceeding would not be to call in the real witnesses previous to the examination of Mr. Stockdale, in order that the allegations contained in Messrs. Hansard's petition might be substantiated? At present a petition had been presented to the House, but they had no means of knowing whether the statements contained in that petition were well-founded or not. He apprehended that before any subject of these realms could be placed in the situation of a party accused, it was necessary that evidence should be given of the
128Mr. F. Kelly
 submitted, with all deference to the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that the character of the party against whom any process might be directed, had nothing whatever to do with the real question at issue. It was a question of right and wrong—of strict and impartial justice—and resolved itself simply into this, whether Mr. Stockdale, whatever might be his character, was properly brought to the bar or not. The case of Sir J. C. Hobhouse, cited by the hon. Member for Finsbury, was not at all in point, for there a contempt had clearly been committed, which, in the present instance, had not been proved. He congratulated the country upon the course which this proceeding had now taken. The noble Lord, and the Attorney-general had already sounded a retreat, and given up the point. The only Member who had the courage to stand by the course he had originally taken, was the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. He insisted on the reasons of committal being recited in the warrant. The noble Lord shrunk from doing so, and that alone showed clearly that he was afraid to try the question. The noble Lord did not venture to carry out his principle; and he now proposed to commit Stockdale, not for bringing the action, but for some indefinite contempt. The authority of the law, therefore, remained triumphant; they could not counteract the decision of the Queen's Bench. The Attorney-general had accused him, upon a former occasion, of having misstated the effect of that decision with respect to the power of inquiry into commitments, on which point the noble Lord was now making his escape; but upon reference to the published report, he found he had correctly stated it.Mr. Darby
 inquired whether the Government contemplated any new arrangement with regard to the transmission of Bills. The present charge of one penny a sheet he deemed excessive.Mr. Goulburn
 said he would submit to the House whether it was worth while to retain this order, as strangers and reporters were notoriously admitted. He would not make any motion, but merely threw out this as a suggestion.Mr. Hume
 still considered it useless and absurd to have a resolution on the order book which it was known was utterly inoperative. He should, therefore, negative it.Mr. Hume
 was sorry to say the House had divided upon the wrong question. However, he did not care; for last year he was in a minority of 18 upon the same question, and now he was in a minority of 25, so he would rest satisfied.Mr. Hume
 said, that it was ridiculous to allow such an order to remain, as it was well known to everybody that Peers openly interfered in elections.Mr. Hume
144 agreed, that no doubt should exist in the mind of any hon. Member, and more particularly in the public mind, as to the course they ought ultimately to adopt in this matter. But he was satisfied that great doubt would exist in the public mind, unless there was stated in the resolution the particular offence of which Mr. Stockdale had been guilty. It appeared to him, that they were already shrinking from their own resolution, and that they dared not now put upon their journals that Mr. Stockdale was guilty of contempt for having brought an action. That really was what it now amounted to; and unless they did put upon their votes an exact statement of the offence, and a description of the breach of privilege of which Stockdale had been guilty, they might depend upon it the public would say that the House of Commons had sent Stockdale and the sheriffs of Middlesex, who were elected by the popular voice, to prison, without daring to state the offence they had committed; and they would say, that the House were smuggling those individuals into prison. He believed it was clearly understood yesterday evening, that no Member was at all pledged by the vote then given to go one jot further than that of calling the parties to the bar. Upon that understanding he himself took no part in the debate; for he really believed that the House would fail in doing justice to Mr. Stockdale and the sheriffs if they did not bring them to the Bar in order to account for their conduct. By bringing them to the Bar it would be doing them justice, because they would be able to state that they were not really the offenders; that they had acted under the sanction of the Court of Queen's Bench; that that court had said to them and the whole world "You shall not be wronged without receiving redress; if any one has injured you, come to us, and we will afford you
144Mr. Thomas Duncombe
170Question.169A Trifling Mistake. should not have troubled the House with a single word on this occasion had it not been for some observations that were made by the hon. and learned Gentlemen who had just sat down, and also by the other hon. and learned Member for Ripon, with reference to the case of Sir J. Hobhouse. The hon. Gentleman had asked the noble Lord when it was intended to give the other defendants and Stockdale an opportunity of being heard in their defence, or in justification or extenuation of the conduct they had pursued. He hoped that the whole of the House would agree with him in the propriety of giving them that opportunity. Nothing damaged this House more in public opinion, and nothing was more likely to produce an injurious effect than having called a person to their bar without putting any question to him as to what he could state in defence of his conduct to throw him into a dungeon. But he wished to remind the House and the country, and some hon. Members who seemed on this occasion to be seized with such an extraordinary fit of liberalism, what was actually done in the case of Sir J. Hobhouse. In the year 1819, Sir J. Hobhouse published a pamphlet called 170Question.169A Trifling Mistake.Mr. Wakley
185 seconded the amendment. He was sure, that the people out of doors were decidedly opposed
185Mr. Alderman Copeland
 was of opinion, that if required to-morrow, or rather that day, the sheriffs must of necessity pay over the money. He was aware, that Mr. Stockdale, having taken the benefit of the Insolvent Debtors' Act, had induced his assignees to move the court to pay over the money to his assignees. He trusted the House would follow out the resolution which had been carried for committing Stockdale to the custody of the sergeant-at-arms whilst proceeding against the sheriff. He protested against the decisions of the House. He revered the law, and he thought it highly improper to deal with the sheriff's of London in the mode proposed for having discharged their duty, which they had sworn to do on entering their office. He called on the House to finish the farce by committing the sheriffs.Alderman Copeland
 hoped the House would proceed that night with the case; it was his firm belief, that it would come on in court to-morrow.Mr. Alderman Copeland
 proposed that the words "or his agent" should be added; thus making it equally illegal for the agent of any nobleman to interfere in an election as the Peer himself.Mr. Ewart
 could not perceive any thing improper or unconstitutional in his suggestion; but as the noble Lord opposed it, he felt it would be useless to divide.Mr. Ewart
165164163v.v.162v.v.vv161 said, there is some inconsistency in the arguments which the honorable and learned Member for Ripon has addressed to our fears. For, first, as if to check too great a boldness, he has drawn a picture of the consequences of our proceedings, in which the most appalling object is that of the judges standing at the bar of the House; and, then, he has taunted us, as if for cowardice, in not daring to bring them there at once. If I saw any precipitate rashness in our proceedings, I should be as anxious as the hon. and learned Member to check it: but, when I recollect the length of time since this question first arose—the laborious investigations of more than one select committee—the repeated resolutions of the House—and that this is the third action at law which Stockdale has brought against the servant of the House, in defiance of those resolutions, it seems to me that we have acted with a proper caution and deliberation; and that, if we have at last come to a conclusion to which we are prepared to adhere, all intimations of danger, and especially from a member of the House, ought to operate as incentives to an energetic progress, and not as inducements to a wavering inaction. Being myself one of the profession of the law, and having held for several years the highest judicial station in India, I have approached the consideration of this question without any prejudices either against courts of law or the judicial office: and I do not go so far as, it seems to be considered, that the arguments of her Majesty's Attorney-general, and, indeed, some resolutions of this House, have gone towards precluding courts of law from all consideration of the orders of either House of Parliament. I cannot, upon that point, find any distinction which is completely satisfactory to my own mind between prerogative and privilege; and, just as I think that the courts may be called upon to look at the order of the sovereign, whether it be for the levy of ship money, or any thing else, to see if it be within the prerogative; so, if the ordinary working of the machinery of a court
165164163v.v.162v.v.vv161Sir C. Grey
 wished to ascertain the exact course which the noble Lord intended to pursue. He took it for granted, that if the House should confirm the proposition of the noble Lord, he would move some resolution for the punishment of the party; but was it the noble Lord's intention to proceed immediately with that motion, or first of all call the Sheriffs and other parties to the bar?Sir E. Knatchbull
v. said, that with all respect for the judgment of the noble Lord, he was not in a condition to give his assent to the motion just proposed. It was not his intention to repeat the arguments which had already been so fully stated to the House, and he should therefore content himself with saying, that he was quite satisfied with the reasons which had been urged against the previous motion by the learned Gentlemen sitting on his side of the House. This singular feature attached to the debate which had just concluded, that with the single exception of the Attorney-general, all the high legal authorities in the House were on the side of the question he advocated. He considered this to be a question in which the liberty of the subject was deeply involved, and, as an independent Member of the House, he was reluctant to assent to a motion which would give the House a power likely to be used to the infringement of the liberty of the people. He should therefore move the following amendment to the motion:—That in the case of Stockdale v.Sir E. Knatchbull
 differed from his hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis) in the objection which he had taken to the question. He did not attach much importance to it, nor did he see any reason why it should not be put. He was, however, very much surprised at the course taken by the Attorney-general in replying to his hon. Friend's objection. What had the Attorney-general said? Why, that the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, had interrupted the course of the examination for the purpose of rendering the whole proceeding void. He thought it would have been infinitely better for the hon. and learned Gentleman, holding so high and important an office in the country as he did, not to have thrown out any insinuation of that kind. No beneficial result could be expected from a proceeding conducted in such a spirit as that manifested by the right hon. and learned Gentleman. He (Sir Edward Knatchbull) admitted the importance of the privileges of the House, and was anxious to guard them; but he could not consent to act in such a spirit as that indicated by the Attorney-general, and which could not be otherwise than highly detrimental to the character of the House.Sir Edward Knatchbull
127 felt a difficulty in fixing a definite period for the introduction of the stamped covers. The delay had not arisen from his being unable to introduce stamped covers with facility, but from the circumstance of its being of the utmost importance to introduce such stamps as would effectually prevent the danger of forgery. That crime, he rejoiced to say, was rapidly disappearing from the country; but it still was necessary to provide against it by applying as many checks as possible, and to do this it was necessary to make a number of experiments. Experiments had been made, and it was found easy to apply the checks on a small scale; but when applied to numbers amounting to millions, it became more difficult to complete the working of the whole machinery. Experiments were now going on, and he trusted the business would be completed in about six weeks. With respect to the second question, as to the introduction in the first instance of the stamps into the London districts, he would not say, positively, that that plan would be adopted, for the main hitch in bringing the whole machinery into operation, was applicable to London as well as to the country at large. He thought, however, that such
127The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that as that was a question relating particularly to the proceedings of the House, it was for the House to deal with it. After the fullest consideration, it had been deemed expedient to fix the lowest possible rate of postage, and not to give special advantages to any particular class of communications. If, however, the House should decide that this privilege should be extended to the communications of the House, and not to those of the several Government departments, it would only remain for him to yield to that decision.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 would remind his hon. and learned Friend of two facts—first, that Mr. Hansard had been called to the bar, and had proved every one of the allegations contained in the petition; and secondly, that they were not then in the Court of Queen's Bench. He would also remind other hon. and learned Members, that in that House they were not bound by the technical rules which obtained in the courts of law, but were bound to proceed according to the well-established practice of Parliament, which required, that when a complaint was made against a party for having been guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House, he should be called to the bar and questioned.The Attorney-General
v: Are you the plaintiff in an action of "Stockdale vThe Attorney-General
bona fide129 begged to deny most respectfully, but at the same time most emphatically, that the question had any such object; but he thought it most material that the House should know how
bona fide129The Attorney-General
140hon. Memberhabeas corpus139 seconded the amendment. He should have preferred that the House had not violated, as he thought it had violated, the spirit, however much it might have complied with the forms of a court of justice. He was perfectly convinced, that in no court animated by the spirit of justice would such a question have been put as was put by the Attorney-general to Mr. Stockdale. No judge would have permitted the last question, at least, to have been put to him, who, it should be remembered, was not a witness, but a party, and whose answer might have prejudiced himself. The letter would have been treated in a court as a privileged document. But, waving the question either of form or substance, he would ask the House to look to themselves alone, and now, as on a former occasion, to consider whether they were clearly prepared to go on with the consequences of the motion of the noble Lord. It was true that by an act of sovereign authority—because they had constituted themselves as sovereigns of this country—by an act of sovereign authority it was true, they might take one of their fellow subjects, and consign him to the prison of Newgate. In the first place he would ask, did they mean to state in the Speaker's warrant, that the commitment was for a contempt of the House of Commons? Was it to be specified in the warrant which the Speaker would officially sign, that John Joseph Stockdale stood committed for a contempt of this House? He would assume that that would be the case. What if John
140hon. Memberhabeas corpus139Sir R. Inglis
178 under that impression would withdraw an expression which he had used only hypothetically. He would only add this observation, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, in introducing the merits or demerits of a certain publication, which the hon. and learned Gentleman probably knew much more of than he did, had set a very objectionable ex-
178Sir R. Inglis
 begged to say one word in explanation. The hon. and learned Gentleman had spoken of the individual at the bar as being the client of himself, and his hon. and learned Friends. This was a point which the hon. and learned Gentleman should have refrained from introducing at all, as utterly irrelevant to the question; but as it had been mentioned, he begged to inform the hon. and learned Gentleman that the only client whom he defended was the law, and with it the liberty of his fellow-subjects. But was it for the hon. and learned Gentleman who so had traduced the women of England—Sir R. Inglis
 would ask whether the hon. and learned Gentleman meant to say that he had made that charge believing it to be false?Sir R. Inglis
 appealed to the Speaker.Sir R. Inglis
 begged to ask whether he was to understand the hon. and learned Gentleman as denying that he had ever in his place in Parliament, traduced the women of EnglandSir R. Inglis
 moved that the party do withdraw.Sir Robert Inglis
 said it was perfectly clear that the object of the last question put by the Attorney-general was not to criminate the party at the bar, nor to exculpate him. If it had any meaning at all, its object must be to criminate some other parties.Sir Robert Inglis
 remarked that, although the hon. Member for Kilkenny might have made a mistake, he had not; for he knew what he had voted, which was, that no resolution of the House of Commons could disfranchise the Peers.Sir Robert Inglis
 seeing the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his place, wished to inquire whether he could name any period when the stamped covers would be introduced? He, likewise, wished to know whether, in the event of there being a likelihood of any great delay, it might not be possible to introduce the stamped covers within the metropolitan district? Also he was desirous of ascertaining whether, with the introduction of the stamped covers, there would be any alteration in the time of delivery, so that the public might receive their letters as formerly, at an early period of the day?Sir R. Peel,
194 wished to ask how the sheriffs would stand with regard to the House? To-morrow they might stand in a different position. If by a process of the Court of Queen's Bench they were compelled to pay the money, they would have
194Sir R. Peel
 had one observation to submit to the House, for the purpose of clearing up and removing every possibility of doubt and misapprehension as to the nature of the motion now before them. These proceedings would be left as matter of record; and he, therefore, submitted to the noble Lord, that the resolution ought distinctly to recite the offence by which the breach of privilege in this case had been committed. For instance, it ought to recite, that Stockdale had brought an action for libel contained in a publication which had been printed by the authority of the House; that the House had declared that any person bringing such action was guilty of a breach of privilege; and that Stockdale, therefore, had been guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House When he (Sir R. Peel) referred to the offensive terms contained in the letter, he did not do so for the purpose of aggravating the punishment of the party; he entertained no ill feeling against Mr. Stockdale on account of that letter; but he thought the resolution affirming the breach of privilege ought to recite the particular offence.Sir Robert Peel
" James and Luke G. Hansard and Sons, Esquires, & c. & c. & c."" 27 August, 1839." J. J. STOCKDALE." I am, Gentlemen, your humble servant,136"Gentlemen—The Commons, in Parliament, has usurped a tyrannic despotism, and having, with the reckless audacity characteristic of all vulgar assemblies or mobs, from the nursery to the plains of revolution, become desperately emboldened, by even so contemptible an advantage as that over a Polack and a Shaw, and refulminated its tremendous and concentrated powers against my pauperized person, I lost no time to seize the gauntlet, boastingly thrown down in the moment of factious exultation over a traveller and attorney, and, for the third time, challenged, single-handed, the would-be enslavers of my country. The action is brought against you for republishing the libel, and I hereby assert the unquestionable rights of Britons against an usurped privilege of the Commons in Parliament, and of which the solicitor of the Trea-
136 begged to suggest whether the point could not be elicited in a better manner. In the schedule of documents attached to the petition of Messrs. Hansard, there was a letter purporting to be from Mr. Stockdale to Messrs. Hansard, which was in the following terms:
" James and Luke G. Hansard and Sons, Esquires, & c. & c. & c."" 27 August, 1839." J. J. STOCKDALE." I am, Gentlemen, your humble servant,136"Gentlemen—The Commons, in Parliament, has usurped a tyrannic despotism, and having, with the reckless audacity characteristic of all vulgar assemblies or mobs, from the nursery to the plains of revolution, become desperately emboldened, by even so contemptible an advantage as that over a Polack and a Shaw, and refulminated its tremendous and concentrated powers against my pauperized person, I lost no time to seize the gauntlet, boastingly thrown down in the moment of factious exultation over a traveller and attorney, and, for the third time, challenged, single-handed, the would-be enslavers of my country. The action is brought against you for republishing the libel, and I hereby assert the unquestionable rights of Britons against an usurped privilege of the Commons in Parliament, and of which the solicitor of the Trea-
136Sir R. Peel
 did not wish to prejudge the cause of the sheriffs, but should be sorry that they should get out of their difficulty by any evasion. He had rather that there should be a discrimination between the case of the sheriffs and the plaintiff in this case; but he should be sorry to be told on Monday, "Now the sheriffs have paid the money, and now we stand on different grounds." He would much rather in that case go on that night. If the Attorney-general felt convinced, that on Monday they would be as competent to consider the case of the sheriffs as they were that night, he had not the slightest objection to adjourn it till then; but he should be very glad to be assured of their legal position, that it would not be altered on Monday.Sir R. Peel
181 rejoiced in the determination of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge not to withdraw his amendment. The question, it appeared to him, would be put before the House much more simply, clearly, and satisfactorily, by the resolution which his noble Friend had moved in the first instance, than as proposed it should stand in its altered form. At the same time he entirely differed from the opinion that by putting it in an altered shape they would, in any respect, appear to recede from their original position. It would appear on the journals that Mr. Hansard's petition had been read; that Stockdale, being called, admitted he was the person who brought the action; whereupon naturally and immediately the House came to the resolution that he had committed a contempt. Their proceedings would be perfectly plain, simple, and orderly; and there was no occasion whatever for reciting in the resolution any further grounds than appeared by the order in which the proceedings appeared on the journals, It had
181Viscount Howick
bona fide130 protested against their
bona fide130Viscount Howick
: What is your name?—William Hemp.The Speaker said
: Did you make a levy on the goods of Messrs. Hansard?—I did.The Attorney General
199 thought this case differed materially from that of Stockdale. In respect to Stockdale, the case was perfect in itself. They had all the information which could possibly be required. They had a party accused of a certain offence, and confessing what was laid to his charge, and such being the case, it was not necessary to call any other witnesses to substantiate it. But in the present
199The Attorney General
: You are the sheriffs of the county of Middlesex?—The Attorney General
: We are.Mr. Sheriff Evans
; I handed my notice to the under-sheriff.Mr. Sheriff Evans
: And I pursued the same course.Mr. Sheriff Wheelton
: Have you got a copy?—Yes: it is dated the 14th of November.The Attorney General
: Was there any other notice served upon you?—Mr. Evans: There was.The Attorney General
: Please to hand it in.The Attorney General
 inquired if any other notices had been served upon them, and the answer was in the affirmative.The Attorney General
 then handed in copies of all the notices which had been served upon him, and they were read at length by the clerk at the table.Mr. Sheriff Wheelton
: Did you ever give orders to your under-sheriffs not to attend to the resolutions or orders of this House?—Mr. Sheriff Evans: We never gave such orders; but we considered ourselves and our deputies bound to obey the orders of the Queen's Bench.Mr. O'Connell
: What! if they should clash with the orders and resolutions of the House of Commons?—We gave no orders to disobey the resolutions of this House.Mr. O'Connell
: That is to say, all writs issued according to law. Has it ever happened with you to have been served with an injunction from the Court of Chancery, forbidding you to execute some particular writ that had been placed in your hands?—I believe not. I am not prepared to say, that such may not have been done; nor have I understood to the contrary.The Attorney General
206 said, that the question he wished to put was this—suppose a writ of execution to be delivered to the sheriff in the name of the Queen directing him to seize the goods of the person named in that writ, and that there came an injunction from the Court of Chancery forbidding him to execute that writ, would he (the sheriff) consider it
206The Attorney General
 would not have put the question, but for that put by the hon. and learned Member for Bandon, which was intended to create an impression on the minds of hon. Members, that all writs in the name of the Queen must by law be executed.The Attorney General
: No.Mr. Sheriff Evans
: You delayed in order to give the House an opportunity of investigating the question?—Yes.Mr. Jervis
 was understood to say that the papers which had been handed in were for the purposes of the inquiry. He should say that when the inquiry was over they would be returned.The Attorney General
, the under-sheriff, called in.Mr. France
 withdrew.Mr. France
 felt himself called upon to defend the question. He did so because he considered it of great importance, and because, as it related only to the practice of the courts of Westminster-hall, the answer could not affect the under-sheriff personally.The Attorney General
 recalled. The Attorney-general having repeated the question, he replied—If the rule is not argued for some days, an affidavit will unquestionably be made, and it will be made by myself.Mr. France
214 read the oath, which contained words to the following effect:—"I will truly return, and truly serve, all the Queen's writs, according to the best of my skill and knowledge."214Mr. France
: We certainly wish to have an opportunity of stating, that if, in the execution of our painful duty, we have incurred the displeasure of this honourable House, we deeply deplore it.Mr. Sheriff Evans
 thought it a bad rule to be slow to show mercy, and speedy to punish.Sir T. Acland
221 said, that he would certainly support the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, unless the noble Lord stated the course which he would be prepared to propose to the House on Monday next. The rapidity with which the House was invited to come to a determination on the previous examination of Mr. Stockdale—the omission of the form of calling that person into the House, for the purpose of asking him whether he had anything to state by way of explanation—afforded a most painful contrast to their proceedings with regard to those highly respectable individuals the sheriffs. Unless the noble Lord was prepared to state the course which he meant to pursue on Monday, he thought it was the duty of the House to relieve from all farther anxiety those gentlemen, who had, in their examination, conducted themselves with such perfect candour, and who had shown, that if they had in the course of
221Mr. Law
 moved as an amendment, that they be ordered to attend on Monday next.Lord J. Russell
: If they are ordered to attend on Monday, that is virtually discharging them from their attendance. The motion at present before the House is, that the sheriffs be called in, and asked if they wish to state anything further. Does the hon. Baronet object to their being called in?Lord J. Russell
227 said, he did not mean to require his attendance.227Lord J. Russell
219 said, that after hearing the evidence of the sheriffs and under sheriffs, as well as the evidence of the previous day, he did not think that it would be necessary to call Mr. Burchell to the bar, as it appeared that he had acted merely as the agent of the under-sheriff; but considering the length of the examinations,
219Lord J. Russell
, if the House would permit him, would now move that the sheriffs be again called in, and asked if they wished to state any thing further. With regard to the suggestion of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, he was of opinion that in a matter of this importance, it would be more respectful to the House not to state until Monday the course which he should think it advisable to pursue, and they might adopt this course with the more safety now that they had it in evidence that it was scarcely possible the rule calling on the sheriffs to pay over the amount of damages could be made absolute for several days.Lord J. Russell
: The order to sell was given by your authority?—Yes.Lord J. Russell
 certainly thought, that the hon. and learned Member for Bandon had introduced the words "by law" into his question, which was in accordance with his previous argument. What was done by the Court of Queen's Bench was done by law; so also was what was done by the Court of Chancery done according to law; and so also, in his mind, what was done by Parliament was done according to Parliamentary law, which he held to be as much the law of the realm as any other law.Lord J. Russell
 said, he thought that sufficient had been heard from the last witness to ascertain that a breach of privilege had been committed by him. But when he came to consider what degree of criminality attached to that offence, and with what degree of punishment it should be visited, he did not think that there was a sufficient number of facts before him to enable him to come to a just conclusion. This party had represented himself as having acted under the orders of others, and in so doing, not wishing to commit a breach of his own duty, nor to give offence to this House; and he had, moreover, put in the warrant under authority of which he had acted, and which he would read to the House. [The noble Lord read the warrant, which was in the usual form of such documents. On coming to the words "and by virtue of the Queen's writs to me directed," there was loud and general cheering]. At the foot of this warrant was the following caution—"before you levy upon the said defendant, beware that the parties are not privileged as ambassadors, or servants to ambassadors, or otherwise privileged or protected."Lord John Russell
: No, no. "What is proposed is, that we should call in the sheriffs, and stated reasons why we should call in the sheriffs before we proceeded to adjudicate in Hemp's case.Lord John Russell
 moved that William Evans and John Wheelton, Esquires, the sheriffs of the county of Middlesex, be called in.Lord J Russell
 thought that the evidence of the last witness made it necessary that the House should defer that question. He had received an order for the execution of this warrant—he stated from other persons, and he stated in the course of his examination, that if he had offended the House he humbly begged their pardon. He thought it very likely that it might appear, in the course of other examinations, that it would become necessary to have that person again at the bar. He did not think it would be advisable to make any motion now in the case of the person who had just been examined.Lord John Russell
—What is your name?—Thomas France.The Speaker.
: I am desired by the House to acquaint you, that if you have anything to state to the House, the House will hear you.The Speaker
229 said, it would perhaps be better that he should give directions to the librarian to sell the covers to none but
229The Speaker
 suggested that the question was not necessary. If they disposed of this matter to-day, and if the case did not come on before the court till Wednesday, the under-sheriff would then have an opportunity, when cause was shown, of stating any facts he might consider necessary to induce the court to discharge the rule instead of making it absolute. He was certain the House would rather take the law upon the subject from the Attorney-general himself than from the party under examination, and he, therefore, trusted the question would not be pressed.Mr. Cresswell
202Oh! Oh.: that was exactly his meaning. Then he would take the liberty of asking for what purpose was Hemp called? Was he called a? a witness against the sheriffs? ["202Oh! Oh.Mr. Cresswell
 thought the noble Lord had removed all the difficulty in which the House was placed before. The only question then was, whose case were they discussing? He understood the noble Lord to say, they were discussing Hemp's case, with a view of dividing upon it.Mr. Cresswell
 objected to the question.Sir Edward Sugden
No, No said, that when that course was proposed yesterday evening, he did not think it an advisable one, that the cases of the parties concerned in this matter should be disposed of separately; but the House having come to the agreement of doing so, and having already acted upon that agreement in one instance, he thought it would be adhered to in all the others. The noble lord, it seemed, was disposed to accept the apology of the person who had just been examined [No, NoSir E. Sugden
 said, the witness has told the House that he was guilty of the offence he was charged with; he was therefore as much in a state to be punished as the other party under a charge of contempt. He merely wished that the proceedings should be regular.Sir E. Sugden
 said, that if the noble Lord had not made up his mind as to the course which he thought it advisable to pursue, there could be no objection to acceding to his proposition for delaying his statement to Monday; but if the noble Lord had made up his mind, he thought it quite proper, that he should state at once the course which he intended to pursue, in order that Members might have time to consider its propriety.Sir E. Sugden
: The better course would be for the noble Lord to state his intentions now.Sir E. Sugden
 first begged to know if it was intended that the House of Commons should retain possession of the several documents which had been handed in by the persons who had been summoned to the bar, or return them, as being their only authority for the acts they had committed? He was not prepared to say whether the House ought to do so or not; but if it were so intended, he was of opinion that such a step should be done openly and avowedly.Sir E. Sugden
 said, he had taken the liberty of interposing, by calling the hon. and learned Gentleman to order, because lie thought the question an improper one. The sheriff was not a legal person from whom they could expect a satisfactory answer. It was a question of law which that House was in a condition to discuss. The sheriff knew nothing upon the subject. If he gave an incorrect answer, they would thereby only convict him of ignorance, without in the least degree settling the point. Every one was aware that an injunction from the Court of Chancery overruled proceedings at common law; but then that was by law. It was not right to convict the sheriff of an error that he might commit under certain. circumstances of which he had had no experience.Sir E. Sugden
 rose to ask his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, to withdraw his motion; and then, if the noble Lord opposite withdrew his amendment, the matter might proceed regularly. The time had not arrived at which the House could properly decide, whether the sheriffs should be discharged or not. He wanted, above all things, to know what the noble Lord who conducted this investigation proposed to do. He understood the noble Lord to say, that he had not yet made up his mind, and would not state his motion until Monday next. The motion of his hon. Friend, therefore, appeared to be premature.Sir E. Sugden
: On entering office did you take all the oaths required by law?—Certainly.Mr. F. Kelly
 after what had fallen from the Attorney-general, would withdraw his opposition.Mr. Kelly
213The Attorney-general said, he objected to the question of the Attorney-general, because no question ought to be put the answer to which might tend to the injury of the party. He had heard, during the course of these proceedings several objections to questions tending to entrap the person under examination into a reply which might seriously inculpate him. He was sure, that nothing was further from the intention of his Friend, the Attorney-general, but he thought his learned Friend must see, that such a question ought not to be put. It might be, that Mr. France would answer, that he would have such an opportunity as the Attorney-general had alluded to, and he might instruct his legal adviser to make an affidavit accordingly. It was, however, to be recollected, that Mr. France had stated, that the day appointed for the consideration of the rule was passed, and according to the strict practice of the court, although the rule was often departed from, no affidavit containing new matter could be made after the day first appointed for showing cause. [213The Attorney-generalMr. Kelly
 objected to the question.Mr. Kelly
By —Have you ever received the Queen's writs to execute against privileged persons?—Certainly.Mr. Warburton.
 thought, that would be no check at all.Mr. Herries
 suggested, that the Speaker should request each Member to write his name on the corner.Mr. Hume
 had not put any question of law to the sheriffs; he had merely questioned them as to a matter of fact.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
207 begged to say, in explanation, that he certainly had not in-
207Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 could not imagine what further facts they could require from the witness who had just left the bar of the House than those they had already got. They had the fact that he (the witness) had seized the goods of the Messrs. Hansard; they had the fact that those goods were sold; they had the fact that the witness was apprised of the resolutions of this House; they had also the fact of the money that was received by the sale of the goods; they had the warrant under which he acted; and then they had the fact that the witness begged pardon of the House if he had committed any offence against it. He therefore begged to know if that House doubted the truth of any of those facts? If they did doubt, he admitted they ought to pursue this investigation further. If it were necessary to establish other facts, the House might act as it thought proper; but he (Sergeant Jackson) respectfully suggested, that the House ought not to detain that man upon the bare possibility of his evidence being again required. Let the case of every individual concerned in this business be discussed upon its own merits. He strongly objected to hon. Gentlemen of that House imputing motives to the Members who sat at his side of the House. He begged to assure hon. Gentlemen, that his side was actuated in their motives by the principles of justice. They had no other interest than that of supporting the substantial interests of that House, and the maintenance of their just rights, privileges, and prerogatives, which could only be maintained, by rendering them consistent with the liberties of the people. He did think that, in the present instance, the House was attempting to arrogate to itself an authority which it had no right to; and, to set itself in opposition to, and above all, the concurrent and concomitant jurisdictions and constitutional authorities of the country, and so, as it were, to ride roughshod over the people of this country. Feeling deeply impressed with this view of the subject, he had been obliged, though with great regret, to separate himself from many gentlemen with whom he had been accustomed to act, and for whom he entertained the greatest respect.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
: Are you sworn to execute all the Queen's writs:—Yes.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
: You stated that you were anxious to defer the proceedings until Parliament met; was that in order that you should receive its instructions and abide by its orders?—No; for we were determined to abide by the orders of the Queen's Bench.Mr. Blewitt
: I believe no one step was taken by you in this case until you were compelled by the Court of Queen's Bench?Mr. Godson
By: In what place did you get the sheriff's order?—In the sheriff's office.Mr. Godson
 felt, that on the present occasion, he should not be justified in voting for the motion of the hon. Baronet, though he had voted for the discharge of Stockdale. He understood the specific ground on which delay was asked was to afford all present an opportunity of maturely considering the evidence given at the bar by the sheriffs. The two cases were entirely different, and he did not think himself at all pledged by his vote in the case of Stock-dale, right as he thought it was, to come to a similar vote in the case of the sheriffs. He asked the hon. Baronet if it would not be more honourable to those gentlemen that they should be discharged after mature deliberation, instead of by a premature vote?Mr. Ingham
: If the Court of Queen's Bench should desire you to pay the money into the hands of Mr. Stock-dale, are you prepared to do it?Mr. T. Duncombe
208 said, he should wish to know if questions were not put the day before to the unfortunate Stockdale which tended to criminate him? Was he not asked, whether he knew that he had been guilty of a breach of privilege? And when it was proposed to ask him, as Hemp had been that day asked, if he had anything to say in explanation, did not the noble Lord object, and say, that having been guilty of a breach of privilege, they would receive no explanations? Hemp said he had none to offer, but that if he had done wrong he was sorry for it. Might not Stockdale have said the same thing? When the public came to read the examinations of yesterday and those of to-day, would they not think, that the courage of the House had oosed out, and that they were now shrinking from the courts of justice? They might have a vicious man
208Mr. T. Duncombe
200 said, that it appeared to him that there was no similarity between the two cases. Stockdale ought certainly to have been committed, but he was not confident the same would be said of the other party. The last witness stated, that if he did wrong, he was sorry for it, and he believed that if the privileges of the House did not require it, they would not be inclined to commit him. At the same time he did not think that there were sufficient grounds before the House to entitle the last witness to be discharged, until the evidence of other parties implicated had been heard. This was not an unimportant point, and he thought he could see the object of hon. Gentlemen who urged the House to adopt a course so different from that approved of by the majority of the House. If they could once get the House to say that this person, on the evidence he had just given, should be discharged, then they would be establishing this principle—that where a party, with a knowledge of the resolutions of this House, disregarded them, and, for instance, paid over moneys in his hands, contrary to the direction of the House
200Sir C. Grey
 wished to know whether the presence of Mr. Burchell on Monday could not be dispensed with, as his attendance caused much public inconvenience?Sir E. Knatchbull
 considered, that there would be a sufficient check upon fraud in having but one place of issue and one of reception.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that in point of fact, the cover which the right hon. Gentleman had in his hand had no power of franking a letter by the post, but for the convenience of Members an arrangement had been made, not under warrant, but after communicating with the Post-office authorities, by which the librarian of the House was to take under his charge the sale of the stamped covers, and an account would be opened against him at the Post-office. Undoubtedly, it was open to any Member to purchase 'a number of the covers, and distribute them among his friends, but he did not apprehend that any bad consequence would ensue, as the sale would only be made to Members, and by parties acquainted with the Members. He had also proposed, that each Member should sign his name on the cover. That regulation had been omitted by some accidental error.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was most anxious to meet the wishes of hon. Gentlemen in supplying information on this subject. He had directed returns to be made out with this view, and when these were laid on the Table, Members would see whether further information was necessary. With regard to the issue of stamped covers to the Members, he thought there was little fear of any usurpation of the privileges of Parliament in that respect. The covers would be issued by one party, who would have directions to deliver them only to parties known to him; and there was the further check, that if any covers were improperly printed, the issue being only from one place, and the number of covers issued being likewise known, any letters improperly sent in would be very soon detected. If hon. Members would be good enough to endorse the covers, he believed, that would be the best protection they could have.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was only desirous that the House should be in possession of a fact which he considered material. The practice of the court was a mere matter of fact, and he was anxious that the House should have that fact from Mr. France, who was perfectly competent to give it, rather than from himself.The Attorney-General
 could not conceive how any Member who had voted in the minority on the previous day against the committal of Stockdale could oppose the motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford for the discharge of the sheriffs. Everything he heard fortified him in the conviction that the steps which the House was taking on this matter were illegal and tyrannical.Sir J. Owen
224 said that judges must necessarily decide, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, on the evidence they had heard a few moments before. If the argument of his right hon. Friend were worth so much, as it appeared to hon. Gentlemen opposite to he, for there had been more cheering from their side of the House than from his own, he should say that it would apply to deprive the judges of the power of deciding on any case without forty-eight hours' deliberation. He held, that having decided, rightly or wrongly, the case of Stockdale without taking one hour to consider it, they were bound to exercise mercy with as little deliberation as they had executed what his hon. and learned Friend, the Recorder of London, had styled the vengeance of the House. There were four classes of persons involved in this action—the person who brought the action, the judge who tried it, the jury who pronounced the verdict, the sheriffs who executed it. He had told the noble Lord, in the first instance, that he should bring to the bar of the House either the judge or the jury. The noble Lord had brought the sheriffs, who had merely been the ministerial officers, and he had without mercy condemned the person who brought the action. He called on the House to declare,
224Sir R. Inglis
220 had uniformly objected to the sheriffs being called to their Bar; but us the House had decided to have the bai-
220Sir R. Inglis
 moved, that the sheriffs, under-sheriff, and bailiff be discharged from further attendance on the House,Sir R. Inglis
228 wished to know what was to prevent any printer in London from striking off the covers by thousands, and sending them down to the House to be posted? Even the name on the back might be forged. Would the Chancellor of the Exchequer have any objection to a return of the amount of postage received
228Sir R. Inglis
 hoped, that the noble Lord would have no objection to the motion which he would make—namely, that the sheriff's, under-sheriff, and bailiff, should be discharged from any further attendance on the House.Sir R. Inglis
 said, that he understood that the party had delivered in the authority under which he had acted, but the substance of it had not yet been communicated to the House. Still he thought it would not be necessary to call further evidence on the point, and he concurred with his right hon. and learned Friend, that the House should adopt the course of deciding on every case on its merits. It was not necessary to call the parties by whom the order had been issued. If there was, however, any doubt on its authenticity, then the case might be difficult.Sir R. Inglis
 begged pardon for intruding on the House, but he wished to observe that the noble Lord had said yesterday that the House should decide on each case separately. He therefore was anxious to ask the Attorney-general what he should do with the witness who had just left the bar? He begged that that question might be first of all decided.Sir R. H. Inglis
 confessed, that he could not see the slightest difficulty in the case. There were two questions. First of all, the question relating to Mr. Stockdale, which was completely separated from the other. Mr. Stockdale was responsible for an act which they were to presume he had been the sole adviser of. He had instituted the action, and the House considered the execution of the action to be a breach of its privileges. They could not meet with any other person responsible for the institution of the action, and, therefore, considering it was a breach of privilege, and an admitted intentional breach of privilege, they determined to submit him to punishment. The present case raised another question, which would require mature deliberation, namely, in what way could they most effectually proceed for the vindication of their privileges. Would the most effectual mode be (and he wished not to be understood as giving any opinion upon that at present) to prevent, if they could, the payment of the damages over? He could not give an opinion on that until he had examined the different parties interested. They were not then in Hemp's case singly. He did not consider that Hemp's name had a criminal foreboding, and that the use of anything like his name was immediately to follow up his examination. But the question was, should they discharge Hemp then, or keep him for two or three hours till they were enabled to see whether they would require his evidence again? It was not to be inferred that he must necessarily be punished; but the question was, whether, in this transaction, where there were various agents employed, sheriffs and subordinate officers, and so on, they should decide on one of the cases till they had heard the whole. He thought it would be more just not to deal with Hemp's case, which he begged to say he did not consider at present in the slightest degree as a criminal case, until the whole of the evidence had been heard.Sir Robert Peel
 then asked, if this had been a mere ordinary action in which the plaintiff had recovered damages in the usual way, would they have paid over the amount in the usual way, without taking steps for delay?—They would not have taken steps for delay.Sir R. Peel
: Had you a doubt as to the propriety of paying the damages to Mr. Stockdale?—Mr. Sheriff Evans: Yes, we had; and we, therefore, gave directions to our under-sheriffs to retain the money in their hands as long as they possibly could do so, consistent with the orders of the Court of Queen's Bench. We wished to retain the money until the House met.Sir R. Peel
205: If you do not pay over the money to Mr. Stockdale, do you consider yourselves legally responsible to him for the amount of the verdict?—Mr. Sheriff Evans: We have received a notice from the Insolvent Debtors' Court not to pay over the money to Mr. Stockdale, but to pay
205Sir R. Peel
 observed, that if they went on arguing in this way they would never close their proceedings. The point in dispute was, whether a certain question should be put—a question which he thought perfectly correct, if the sheriff had had experience on the subject. Not having had experience, he might have said, that it was a point of great difficulty, and would consult the Attorney general upon it.Sir Robert Peel
 had intended, as soon as the House was up, to purchase 240. Now suppose twenty Members were to do the same, in order to have a stock on hand, there would be a large quantity out, and before the Members could use them all, there might be a forgery to the extent of 2,000 covers or more.Sir R. Peel
 advised the right hon. Gentleman, as he did not know what advantage might be taken of the arrangement, to issue a Treasury memorandum for the use of Members, explaining the conditions under which the privilege was to be exercised. As to there being only one place of issue, there was but one for issuing Bank of England notes. There was no law to prevent a bookseller from printing the covers, and selling them at 20 for 1s.; so that unless it were distinctly understood, that only Members should use the covers, improper practices would be introduced.Sir R. Peel
 said, the regulation as to the endorsement of the name appeared to him most important, as now there seemed to be no restriction in the use of the covers, but that of posting them at the House. He feared, that if they were not confined to the personal use of Members, forgery of the stamps might become common.Sir R Peel
 doubted whether that would be sufficient to prevent endless frauds, for another person's name might correspond with a Member's.Sir R. Peel
223222 said, that in this case also there appeared to him to be two questions which were perfectly distinct. One was the personal conduct of the sheriffs, the other was the inevitable bearing of that conduct upon the privileges of the House of Commons. If he were to decide the question upon its personal merits with reference to the sheriffs' demeanour and conduct, he should say at once, judging from what he had just seen and heard, that he could not conceive conduct more honourable. Their evidence was the evidence of men determined to tell the truth, recognising the difficulties of their position, seeing that there were conflicting authorities, and being unwilling to offer offence to either side, but anxious to take that course which upon the whole would be most consistent with justice. Was there any man in that House
223222Sir R. Peel
 said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, appeared to have anticipated his suggestion of a partial experiment of stamped covers, in providing them for the use of Members of Parliament. Now, he thought, there ought to be some understanding as to whether these stamps were for the exclusive use of Members alone. There was no other regulation at present, than that the letters written should be posted at the House of Commons. Now, what he wanted to know was, whether any Member was to be at liberty to purchase several hundreds or thousands of those covers, and distribute them, if he chose, among his friends.Sir R. Peel
 said, he did not object to the question because it tended to criminate the sheriff, but because he thought it would be unfair to ask them to pledge themselves to any future course of proceeding. He had always held, and still held, that that House had a right—very different from the practice of courts of law—to require parties to acknowledge offences which they might have committed. They had accordingly requested the sheriffs to avow, and they had avowed, that they had given authority for that which was considered a breach of the privileges of that House. To that course he offered no objection, because he thought it a perfectly correct course. But he did object not to asking the sheriffs what they had done, but to asking them what they would do under circumstances that had not yet arisen, and which they had not had time duly to consider previous to deciding what their line of conduct ought to be. No such course had been adopted with regard to Stockdale. They had not asked him any question by which they could pledge him to any future step. He would moreover state, in consequence of his hon. friend's allusion to Hemp's expression of regret, that Stockdale had been afforded ample opportunity of giving any explanation he could. Had he not openly and expressly stated that it was a question raised for the purpose of trying the privileges of that House? He certainly thought, that after his examination, and previous to his committal, it would have been very wrong to have allowed Stockdale to enter into an argument against their privileges. That would have been a course calculated to compromise the dignity of the House, and which he believed would be contrary to precedent. He did not see the slightest analogy between what occurred yesterday respecting Stockdale, and that day's examination of Hemp,Viscount Howick
 objected to the question, as the answer might bind the sheriffs to a future course of conduct, which he thought would be unfair.Viscount Howick
240239 hoped he
240239Sir Edward Knatchhull
293v.v.v.v.v.v.v.v.292291"In order to lay before the House the result of their inquiry with tolerable brevity, and some degree of method, the committee have
291v.290habeas corpus.289v.288reddit287bonâ fide,fieri faciasv286bonâ fide,285"I will truly and diligently execute the good laws and statutes of this realm, and in all things well and truly behave myself in my office, for the honour of the Queen and the good of her subjects, and discharge the same according to the best of my skill and power."284fieri facias283l.v.282"The only instance of the power to commit without the power to examine on oath, that can be produced, is the practice of the House of Commons, but this instance is no precedent for other cases; the rights of that assembly are original and self-created; they are paramount to our jurisdiction, and above the breach of prohibitions, injunctions, or error."v.v.v.281Oh!v.280 did not rise to follow his hon. and learned Friend into the various legal arguments which he had brought before the House. He had two strong reasons for avoiding that course; first, that his hon. and learned Friend had not moved to rescind the resolutions of May, 1837, which, while they remained on the journals, must be considered as the foundation of any proceedings on this subject; and, secondly, that there was now no room for delay or postponement, because from information on which he could rely, he knew that a motion would be made at the sitting of the Court of Queen's Bench the next day, to make the rule absolute to compel the sheriff of Middlesex to pay the money to Mr. Stockdale. To-night, therefore, they must come to a resolution on the question, and he hoped they would come to a resolution which would be obeyed by the sheriffs of Middlesex, and afford them sufficient cause to show against the rule. With regard to the two resolutions to which his hon. and learned friend had referred, he thought they had met with such strong support in that House, having been passed almost unanimously, and no motion to rescind them having been made, they must be looked upon as the found-
293v.v.v.v.v.v.v.v.292291"In order to lay before the House the result of their inquiry with tolerable brevity, and some degree of method, the committee have
291v.290habeas corpus.289v.288reddit287bonâ fide,fieri faciasv286bonâ fide,285"I will truly and diligently execute the good laws and statutes of this realm, and in all things well and truly behave myself in my office, for the honour of the Queen and the good of her subjects, and discharge the same according to the best of my skill and power."284fieri facias283l.v.282"The only instance of the power to commit without the power to examine on oath, that can be produced, is the practice of the House of Commons, but this instance is no precedent for other cases; the rights of that assembly are original and self-created; they are paramount to our jurisdiction, and above the breach of prohibitions, injunctions, or error."v.v.v.281Oh!v.280The Attorney General
 stated that the right hon. Gentleman had mistaken what he had said. He had observed that he had little doubt that on the court hearing the order and the reasons that the sheriffs had for obeying it, that they would be regarded as sufficient in point of law for not paying the money to Mr. Stockdale. With respect to the present motion, the sheriffs had had an opportunity of purging themselves from the contempt, but they had not availed themselves of the opportunity. Indeed, the sheriffs might show no cause to the rule, and might allow the judgment to be made absolute, without observation, if the House did not interfere. Under these circumstances, he thought that it would be impossible to comply with the suggestions of the hon. Baronet.The Attorney General
354 said, he had strong
354Sir T. Acland
 said, Mr. Stockdale, the prisoner, had entrusted him with a most respectful petition, praying to be heard at the bar. Here was a poor man, who had borrowed a coat to appear at the bar, and who yet obtained a verdict in the face of all the means which the law officers could bring against him. His case must be a sound one when he obtained a verdict under such disadvantages. He moved as an amendment, that Mr. Stock-dale be called to the bar.Captain Boldero
 wished to ask the noble Lord, whether, in the event of the sheriffs refusing to pay over the money to Messrs. Hansard, notwithstanding the resolution of this House, assigning as a reason, that they believed they were compelled by law to obey the Queen's writ issued by the Court of Queen's Bench, and that they were bound by oath to abide by the direction of that court; whether, after making such a statement, it was the intention of the noble Lord to proceed to extremities against those parties, by ordering them, for not doing what was contrary to their oaths or their duty, into the custody of the sergeant-at-arms?Mr. Law
v.Laughter346 said, that as far as he was able to collect from the reading of the resolution of the noble Lord, he was about to follow up the two resolutions which had been already submitted to the House, one of them indeed pointing to the sheriffs, but not naming them, complaining of the execution levied on the goods of Messrs. Hansard, in contempt of the privileges of the House, and the other suggesting that an order should be made upon the sheriffs to pay over the money which they now held in their hands as money belonging to the plaintiff in a cause, which was to be paid by the order of the court to the plaintiff, should be paid to the defendant instead of the plaintiff. The noble Lord having called the sheriffs to the bar had, through the Speaker, acquainted those public functionaries with the resolutions, which in their absence had been taken by the House. He was indeed surprised to learn from the lips of the noble Lord that the opportunity afforded by calling them to the bar was in expectation that they were about to make concessions to the House, and to declare their readiness to comply with what he would, with all deference, call one of the most unlawful orders that ever was made. The noble Lord was a great stickler for the privileges and free elections of the people. Of what materials did he suppose the sheriffs, who were fleeted by the citizens of London, to be, if they were expected to be cowed by such an order as this, and to prostrate themselves before what they believed to be an usurped authority on the prerogative of the Crown? It had been contended throughout this debate that unless they were sound in the principles embodied in their resolutions, they were acting contrary to the law, even the law of
v.Laughter346Mr. Law
 begged also to say a word in explanation. What he said was, that where a proper discretion was used, it was seldom necessary to publish matters criminatory of any individual, and that where they did publish such criminatory matter, it would be a crying injustice to refuse a person the means of vindicating his own character, and that, therefore, if they closed the courts of justice, it was imperative upon them to give access to the bar of the House.Lord Elliot
279 having given two or three silent votes upon this subject, would address a few observations to the House upon that occasion. The question before them was one which it was of the highest importance should be kept free from all party feeling; and it grieved him to observe that some hon. Members did not appear to be of that opinion, in consequence of which more asperity had been observable during portions of the debate than he thought was necessary. He should not follow that course; but in saying so he did not attribute unworthy motives to those hon. Members. No man desired more anxiously than he did to see all the privileges of the House of Commons carefully preserved, they being, as he believed, for the benefit of the community; but he should express a doubt as to whether the hon. and learned Gentleman who preceded him had not drawn too broadly an instance of the extent of the privileges of the House, by saying that no Member of that House could be punished for any act he might do in that House. Supposing that in former days, when great excitement prevailed, that one Member killed or stabbed another, would not the criminal law of the country have a jurisdiction over that offence, which would not be affected by the privilege of Parliament? He should not stop to inquire as to whether that case had been put too broadly, but he should ask, with respect to the question before them, would not the injury done to an individual more than counterbalance any good that might be expected to arise from the assertion of that privilege? Were there not other means which might be adopted to prevent such a statement as that which had been the cause of the proceedings which were then occupying their attention? In the evidence respecting prisons, would it not be sufficient to have stated that an improper book had been found in a prison without stating any thing about Stockdale? In what was the case strengthened by naming Stockdale? He was of opinion that if due caution had been used, the grounds which Stockdale based his action upon would not have been afforded. But Stockdale had not suc-
279Lord Eliot
245 believed that
245Lord Granville Somerset
 had certainly expressed an opinion last year that the law relating to beer-shops might be improved; but he had at the same time stated that one of the things which he believed to be most essential to the preservation of order in the country was the having a good constabulary force.Lord J. Russell
l.v.260l.259"This is a proceeding by one branch of the Legislature, and, therefore, we cannot inquire into it."sub judice;"This is an application for leave to file a criminal information against the defendant for publishing a libel: so that the application supposes that this publication is a libel. This report was first made by a committee of the House of Commons; then approved by the House at large, and then communicated to the other House, and is now sub judice;258257256255254253"That the power of publishing such of its reports, votes, and proceedings, as it should deem necessary or conducive to the public interests, was an essential incident to the constitutional functions of Parliament, more especially of this House, as the representative portion of it." rose and said, it now became his duty to state to the House the precise course which he considered, in conjunction with his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-general, and with other members of this House, should be taken in the present stage of these proceedings. In doing this, it appeared to him necessary to recal the attention of the House for some moments to what their former proceedings had been, and to the precise position in which the question now stood. They had a resolution on the journals of the House to the effect,
l.v.260l.259"This is a proceeding by one branch of the Legislature, and, therefore, we cannot inquire into it."sub judice;"This is an application for leave to file a criminal information against the defendant for publishing a libel: so that the application supposes that this publication is a libel. This report was first made by a committee of the House of Commons; then approved by the House at large, and then communicated to the other House, and is now sub judice;258257256255254253"That the power of publishing such of its reports, votes, and proceedings, as it should deem necessary or conducive to the public interests, was an essential incident to the constitutional functions of Parliament, more especially of this House, as the representative portion of it."Lord John Russell
: I explained my views with regard to the sheriffs in what I addressed to the House at the beginning of the evening. I explained, that the course I thought it necessary to pursue would not be a course with regard to the views, or notions, and feelings of duty which the sheriffs might entertain, but with regard to what was most consistent with the privileges of this House, and with the maintaining of those privileges.Lord John Russell
242241 could only say, that he had acted on this occasion upon what he had understood to be the rule of the House as regarded the presentation of Addresses to the Crown. It was not for him to vindicate the propriety of that rule; and if it were thought better that there should be any change in it he was sure that if he were to represent the wish of the House to her Majesty, her Majesty would most willingly acquiesce in any alteration that might be desired. But he had always been told by those most conversant with the rules of the House, that the rule upon which the House ordinarily acted upon these occasions was this, that the House
242241Lord John Russell
 then moved, that the Sheriffs be called in, and the Speaker directed to read to them the resolutions of the House, and to ask them whether they had anything to say concerning the resolutions.Lord John Russell
 moved that the sheriffs be ordered to pay over the money in their hands to Messrs. Hansard.Lord J. Russell
345: I confess I think, that the House has but one course to pursue upon this occasion. It appears to me, that the sheriffs in proceeding in contempt of the privileges of this House to seize the goods of the servants of this House, namely of Messrs. Hansard, and having sold the goods and retaining the money in their possession, contrary to the privileges of this House, committed an offence—that which the House has now by its resolution declared to be an offence—upon which the House would have been fully justified in proceeding at once to commit them to the custody of the sergeant-at-arms. I confess, however, that after proposing the course I did propose, they should be ordered to refund the money to Messrs. Hansard, and in desiring that the Speaker should read the resolution of the House to them, giving them an opportunity to say anything in their own justification to the House; after their having been summoned since last Thursday to appear at the bar of the House, and of course, after having had frequent consultations with those whom they thought were best calculated to advise them, I did think they would have so far purged themselves of the contempt as to declare their willingness to act in obedience to the orders of this House, as signified to them by the Speaker. There was one part of the case concerning which at an earlier stage of these proceedings there appeared to be some doubt, or ambiguity; though with the notions I entertain of the privileges of Parliament there was not much doubt with me, yet there seemed to be some doubt upon the mind of the under-sheriff, who was the legal adviser of the sheriffs, whether a paper sent to him by a solicitor containing certain resolutions of the House of Commons was an authority which he could properly consider equivalent to the authority of the House itself. But this
345Lord John Russell
348 thought that he had sufficiently explained the matter when he had proposed the present proceeding. He had stated that he conceived, in their proceeding in seizing the goods of Messrs. Hansard, as he believed illegally, the sheriffs had committed a breach of the privileges of that House. He had been anxious, as far as possible, seeing the embarrassment which they must be under in a question of difficulty coming before them which had not arisen for many years—he was anxious to avoid any extremity of this nature, and to give the sheriffs the opportunity of setting themselves right with the House. But the breach of privilege which they had committed was the breach in taking the
348Lord J. Russell
: There is no question before the House.The Speaker
, calling the sheriffs by their names, communicated to them the resolution which the House had come to; and said, I am further to acquaint you, that if you have anything to state to the House, the House is now ready to hear you.The Speaker
: You may withdraw.The Speaker
 said there was no question but that the whole of these proceedings had been irregular. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Jackson) asked a question of the noble Lord which admitted of a concise answer; and when the noble Lord rose in the first instance, he thought the answer would have been concise; but the noble Lord craved the indulgence of the House to give a more lengthened answer. He understood the House to have given that indulgence. If he had not thought so he certainly should have felt it his duty to interrupt the noble Lord. When the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Jackson) afterwards rose, he (the Speaker) supposed it was merely for the purpose of stating something in explanation of what had passed, and if he had found the hon. and learned Gentleman exceeding that object, he (the Speaker) should have felt it his duty to interrupt him.The Speaker
" Hear, hear" and ironical Cheers.301300299v.298mutatis, mutandis.v297v.v.v.296v.v.v.295v.v.294 felt the disadvantage which he laboured under in following the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, not only on account of the difficulty of coping with the talents of the hon. and learned Gentleman, but because he had, from the commencement of the discussions on this question, resolved to conduct himself with moderation. He had as great a respect for the privileges of the House, as the hon. Members who took an opposite view of the case, and he therefore respected the opinions which they conscientiously entertained. He had never heard a speech that struck him with more surprise than that to which they had just been listening. He should not speak of the singular position in which the hon. and learned Member was placed, by being at the same time the Attorney-general of the crown and the accuser of courts of justice. But he must express his astonishment at the proposition, that whatever the House of Commons chose to assert was to be taken as the law of the country. The hon. and learned Gentleman told them that the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench was an illegal judgment, while the resolution of the House was legal, just, and binding. Was it possible to proceed with the argument in that way? Was not the judgment of the Court to be considered as a proper one until it was reversed? But he supposed it would be said, that although the judgment might be right in point of law, still the House did
" Hear, hear" and ironical Cheers.301300299v.298mutatis, mutandis.v297v.v.v.296v.v.v.295v.v.294Sir E. Sugden
 said, that if the defence of the Sheriffs held good in the Queen's Bench on the order of the House, it must be in the validity of the resolutions of the House, and not merely because the House so ruled. His hon. and learned Friend stated that the sheriffs might not show cause to the rule that had been obtained, and thus the attachment might issue, and the money be obtained; but Mr. France, the very intelligent under-sheriff, whose evidence they all listened to with so much attention on Saturday, distinctly stated that it was intended to do so, and to state to the court all the facts of the case. After this there could be little doubt on the subject.Sir E. Sugden
 asked, whether no time would be allowed to consider what course they should pursue, or to take the advice of counsel.Mr. Kelly
278"That it appearing to this House, that an action has been brought against James Hansard and others, for the publication by them, under an order of this House, of certain papers containing libellous matter upon John Joseph Stockdale, and that judgment has been
278l.277276275v.v.274v.habeas corpus,273habeasv.272271"This is the form in which I understand the Committee of a late House of Commons to have asserted the privileges of both Houses of Parliament, and we are informed that a large majority of that House adopted the assertion. It is not without the utmost respect and deference that I proceed to examine what has been promulgated by such high authority. Most willingly would I decline to enter upon an inquiry which may lead to my differing from that great and powerful assembly; but when one of my fellow-subjects presents himself before me in this court, demanding justice for an injury, it is not at my option to grant or withhold redress." "I am bound to afford it, if the law declares him entitled to it. I must, then, ascertain how the law stands, and whatever defence may be made for the wrong-doer I must examine its validity. The learned counsel for the defendant contends for his legal right to be protected against all consequences of acting under an order issued by the House of Commons, in conformity with what that House asserts to be its privilege; nor can I avoid then the question, whether the defendant possesses that legal right or not.""If the Attorney-general was right in contending," said Lord Denman, "as he did more than once in express terms, that the House of Commons, by claiming anything as its privileges, thereby makes it a matter of privilege; and also that its own decision upon its own claim is binding and conclusive; then plainly this court cannot proceed in any inquiry into the matter, and has nothing else to do but declare the claim well founded, because it had been made."270lex Parliamenti"The lex Parliamentiv."That by the law and privilege of Parliament, this House has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to determine upon the existence and extent of its privileges, and that the institution or prosecution of any action, suit, or other proceeding for the purpose of bringing them into discussion or decision before any court or tribunal elsewhere than in Parliament is a high breach of such privilege, and renders all parties concerned therein amenable to its just displeasure and to the punishment consequent thereon."269268Cheers.Robert Peell.267266265264263"That by the law and privilege of Parliament, this House has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to determine upon the existence and extent of its privileges; and that the in-
263"That the power of publishing such of its votes, papers, and proceedings, as it shall deem necessary or conducive to the public interests, is an essential incident to the constitutional functions of Parliament, more especially to the Commons House of Parliament as the representative portion of it."262"That in case of any actions being hereafter brought for the publication of any papers under the order of this House, the Attorney General be instructed to defend such action, and to report thereupon to the House.""That it appearing to this House that an action has been brought against James Hansard and others, for the publication by them, under an order of this House of certain papers containing libellous matter upon John Joseph Stockdale, and that judgment has been obtained and execution issued by due course of law against the said James Hansard and others in such action, it is expedient that the said James Hansard and others be indemnified against all costs and damages by them sustained in respect of such action."261 rose for the purpose of proposing certain resolutions by way of amendment to the motion of the noble Lord. He did not condemn the noble Lord for the delay which had taken place
278"That it appearing to this House, that an action has been brought against James Hansard and others, for the publication by them, under an order of this House, of certain papers containing libellous matter upon John Joseph Stockdale, and that judgment has been
278l.277276275v.v.274v.habeas corpus,273habeasv.272271"This is the form in which I understand the Committee of a late House of Commons to have asserted the privileges of both Houses of Parliament, and we are informed that a large majority of that House adopted the assertion. It is not without the utmost respect and deference that I proceed to examine what has been promulgated by such high authority. Most willingly would I decline to enter upon an inquiry which may lead to my differing from that great and powerful assembly; but when one of my fellow-subjects presents himself before me in this court, demanding justice for an injury, it is not at my option to grant or withhold redress." "I am bound to afford it, if the law declares him entitled to it. I must, then, ascertain how the law stands, and whatever defence may be made for the wrong-doer I must examine its validity. The learned counsel for the defendant contends for his legal right to be protected against all consequences of acting under an order issued by the House of Commons, in conformity with what that House asserts to be its privilege; nor can I avoid then the question, whether the defendant possesses that legal right or not.""If the Attorney-general was right in contending," said Lord Denman, "as he did more than once in express terms, that the House of Commons, by claiming anything as its privileges, thereby makes it a matter of privilege; and also that its own decision upon its own claim is binding and conclusive; then plainly this court cannot proceed in any inquiry into the matter, and has nothing else to do but declare the claim well founded, because it had been made."270lex Parliamenti"The lex Parliamentiv."That by the law and privilege of Parliament, this House has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to determine upon the existence and extent of its privileges, and that the institution or prosecution of any action, suit, or other proceeding for the purpose of bringing them into discussion or decision before any court or tribunal elsewhere than in Parliament is a high breach of such privilege, and renders all parties concerned therein amenable to its just displeasure and to the punishment consequent thereon."269268Cheers.Robert Peell.267266265264263"That by the law and privilege of Parliament, this House has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to determine upon the existence and extent of its privileges; and that the in-
263"That the power of publishing such of its votes, papers, and proceedings, as it shall deem necessary or conducive to the public interests, is an essential incident to the constitutional functions of Parliament, more especially to the Commons House of Parliament as the representative portion of it."262"That in case of any actions being hereafter brought for the publication of any papers under the order of this House, the Attorney General be instructed to defend such action, and to report thereupon to the House.""That it appearing to this House that an action has been brought against James Hansard and others, for the publication by them, under an order of this House of certain papers containing libellous matter upon John Joseph Stockdale, and that judgment has been obtained and execution issued by due course of law against the said James Hansard and others in such action, it is expedient that the said James Hansard and others be indemnified against all costs and damages by them sustained in respect of such action."261Mr. Fitz Roy Kelly
 said in explanation, the noble Lord had misunderstood him. The noble Lord seemed to suppose, that he (Mr. Kelly) had advanced an opinion that commitment for contempt was not within the power and privilege of the House. He begged to state, that he never advanced such an opinion. He stated, on the contrary, more than once, and he repeated it, that the House had undoubted power to commit for contempt, and no court of law that he was aware of ever yet questioned that power. What he did state, and it doubtless led to the misunderstanding, was this, that in the particular case of Stockdale, whom they had committed, if an action were brought by Stockdale, and pursuant to the resolution moved, that House were to order the Attorney-general to set up privilege as a defence, it would be a good and complete defence, but if they persevered in the course now proposed of committing a person for daring to bring any action whatever, there would then be no ground of defence, and if they did not appear judgment would go by default, the court could take no notice of a privilege that was not pleaded, and he then said, that Stockdale, although lawfully committed, could still recover damages.Mr. Kelly
244Chair," "order." trusted he migght be allowed to say a few words, ["244Chair," "order."Mr. Bradshaw
 thought, that before the House acceded to the motion of the hon. Baronet, they should ascertain whether the sheriffs might not, before the next meeting of the House, be ordered by the Court of Queen's Bench to pay the money to Mr. Stockdale. If there was a probability of that event taking place, as the Attorney-general seemed to consider there was, it would not be right for the House to adjourn without coming to a decided resolution.Mr. Hume
349 rose to move that the House do now adjourn, in the anxious hope that the time which would be thus afforded for temperate reflection would probably induce the House to desist from taking the step proposed by the noble Lord opposite, and which appeared to him (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) one of the most harsh and most unjust proceedings that had ever been taken by any assembly. Was it becoming in the House of Commons to attack the two respectable functionaries, who had conducted themselves in such a praiseworthy manner, and had merited nothing but the approbation of the noble Lord himself? Was it becoming in
349Mr. Sergeant Jackson
sine qua non trusted the House would permit him to offer a few words in explanation, after the allusion the noble Lord had thought proper to make to him. It was perfectly true he did, at a meeting of his constituents, make some observations upon this question; and the noble Lord had only done him justice in supposing that he would not have made such strong objections to the conduct of Lord Howard de Walden if he had been in possession of the whole facts connected with the transaction, and which certainly did not appear to subject that noble Lord to the charge of double dealing. Although the lengthened explanation of the noble Lord was not satisfactory to his mind, and he must say that there did, upon the face of the whole transaction, appear to have been a mass of political diplomacy calculated to affix a stain upon Great Britain, in its relations with foreign slates, by which it had never hitherto been disgraced. It appeared that a British minister had required from another government, as a sine qua nonMr. Sergeant Jackson
251, said that as to the point of order, he should throw himself upon the consideration of the House. He had asked simply a question of the
251Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 wished to know whether the noble Lord had any objection to state whether the letter of Lord Howard de Walden to Viscount de Sa was written in pursuance of heads of instructions to Lord Howard prepared in England, or whether it entirely originated with Lord Howard de Walden?Mr. Sergeant Jackson
, in pursuance of the notice he had given, begged to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, the precise date of the confidential note addressed by Lord Howard de Walden, our Minister at the Portuguese court, to Viscount Sa da Bandeira.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 moving, that the sheriffs be allowed until the meeting of Parliament this day to give their answer, whether they will pay the money to Messrs. Hansard, pursuant to the order of the House.Sir M. Wood
 reminded the hon. and learned Attorney-general, that in the outset of his speech to-night he had expressed a hope, that the result of the proceedings would be such as to afford the sheriffs the means of making such a statement to the Court of Queen's Bench on the next day, as would induce the court to discharge the rule. He certainly thought the sheriffs ought to be placed in the situation of offering to the Court of Queen's Bench a resolution of that House as their reason for not paying the money to Mr. Stockdale. To commit them till the next meeting of the House would answer no purpose, while it would deprive them of the means of answering in the Court of Queen's Bench. The House would be virtually abandoning its own object, by not acceding to the motion of the hon. Baronet.Mr. Godson
250 rose to order. He thought that this discussion, according to the rules of the House, was clearly irregular. He conceived that the hon. and learned Gentleman might put his question to the Ministers in what terms he pleased,
250Sir S. Lushington
Order243 could state, that he, for one, was certainly not aware that the address was to be taken up that day. It was stated in the votes that the chair would be taken at one o'clock; but he must declare that he had received no intimation, either written or oral, from any quarter, that the Address would be taken up to the Queen that day. He believed that the noble Lord had stated that which was strictly
Order243Mr. Wakley
 put it to the hon. and gallant Member, whether he was not injuring the case of the petitioner by pressing it at such an hour of the morning, when in all probability Mr. Stockdale was in bed? Besides, this course tended to prejudice the House against Mr. Stockdale, to whom he was sure they were desirous of giving every fair opportunity to vindicate himself.Mr. Wakley
 felt himself in precisely the same situation as his hon. Friend who had just addressed the House. He had seen that the Speaker was to take the chair at one o'clock, and had come down to the House in consequence of seeing that announcement, and on his way down he had met the Speaker going in procession to the palace. He had followed, and had had the satisfaction of having been admitted into the palace of her Majesty. One thing more he wished to say. When those who sat on the opposition side of the House were accused of disloyalty, he must confess that he for one was ashamed to see Members of that House going into her Majesty's presence—at a time when her royal aunt was lying dead—with cut-off green coats and brass buttons. He might add, that he was still more astonished to see in that costume the brother of a cabinet Minister.Mr. Blackstone
 was not aware, that the noble Lord had made any intimation to the House, either on Friday or Saturday, that the Address would be presented on Monday. He was satisfied, generally, with the noble Lord's explanation; but he begged to repeat again what he had stated before, that had it not been for the imputations which were so unjustly passed upon that side of the House, he should not have thought it worth while to mention the subject at all. The noble Lord now told them that he had intimated on a former evening what the course of proceeding, as regarded the presentation of the Address would be. If that intimation were made to the House generally, of course he could have no ground to complain of it; but if it should happen that it had been given, not to the House at large, but only to certain Members of it—if it should turn out that it had been made by means of circulars issued from a Government office—then he thought that the Members left in ignorance of the circumstance would have some right to complain. All that he asked from the noble Lord, or from any other Government that might be formed was this; that when it was proposed by the House of Commons to take up a dutiful address to the Crown such intimation should be given as would enable every Member to be present.Sir Edward Knatchbull
v. wished to ask the noble Lord a question. The proposition then before the House was that the Sheriffs of Middlesex should be committed to the custody of the Sergeant at Arms for a breach of the privileges of that House. When that was done, the Speaker must sign his warrant, and he had no doubt, that in the warrant the noble Lord would take the advice which had been given to him upon the late occasion, and would fail to insert the cause. The question, therefore, which he wished to ask was, whether the commitment which the noble Lord proposed was in consequence of any breach of privilege committed in seizing the property in the cause of Stockdale v.Sir E. Knatchbull
 did not think, that the House was now in a position to deal with this matter as an original breach of privilege. They should have done so on Saturday, when the sheriffs were examined, and when they made the avowals which they did at the bar of the House. He hoped, that the majority would not take any step, that would put the House in a worse position than it now was in, for they had not yet received any answer from the sheriffs as to the course they intended to pursue. They had given the Sheriffs but little time for consideration, and there would be an appearance of harshness in their proceedings if they pressed for an immediate answer. The hon. and learned Attorney-general had said, that he believed that the Court of Queen's Bench would be satisfied if it was made clear to them that the sheriffs were only obeying the orders of the House.Sir E. Knatchbull
 replied, that if at that moment he saw any possibility of introducing a bill upon the subject that would be likely to pass into a law, he should be happy to take the matter entirely into his own hands. At present he saw no prospect of that kind, and, therefore, could not take upon himself the duty of bringing forward a measure; but when he made this statement he begged it to be understood that he reserved to himself the full power of introducing, at a subsequent period of the session, any measure that a more complete acquaintance with the subject might lead him to think necessary.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
302v. begged to say a few words in strict explanation, and with reference to one or two points which would serve as specimens of the way in which he had been misunderstood by his hon. and learned Friend. In the first place his hon. Friend had denied his statement that there had been an acquiescence in the privileges because they had been questioned in the case of "Burdett 302v.The Attorney-General
 then on the 4th of February would move for leave to bring in a bill to improve the present system of licensing houses for the sale of beer.Mr. Pakington
 wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he contemplated any measure with regard to the present system of beer-shops?Mr. Pakington
322l.321320l.posse comitatus?J. Russell:319 said, that the noble Lord (Lord Howick) had expressed surprise that no one on either side of the House had signified approval of the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench. He was one
322l.321320l.posse comitatus?J. Russell:319Sir R. Inglis
347 said, that this was the first occasion that this House had ever assumed the character of a judicial court, exhibiting as little of its spirit as he had ever witnessed. The sheriffs of London were bound to obey the law; they had told the House on Saturday that there was not one word about the House of Commons in the oath which they had taken, and did the House mean to say that they should be called upon directly to forswear themselves? These gentlemen had sworn to obey the law, and he would ask what it would be but perjury, if individuals having so sworn should obey the authority of the House, and not the
347Sir R. Inglis
"I would not have spoken about our privileges, if the thing questioned were only matter of form, and not of matter; but this is of that importance to us, that if we should yield our liberties to be but of grace, these walls that have known the holding of them these many years, would blush; and therefore we cannot, in duty to our country, but stand upon it, that our liberties and privileges are our undoubted birthright and inheritance."340339"Holt differed from the other judges on the point of the House of Commons being the only judge of its own privileges, but that the courts must be governed by the eleven, and not by the single one.'ad aliud examen."338"When the House of Commons," said he "Adjudge anything to be a contempt or a breach of privilege, their adjudication is a conviction. This court cannot take cognizance of a commitment by the House of
ad aliud examen."338Habeas CorpusHabeas Corpus"The House of Commons is undoubtedly a high court; and it is agreed on all hands, that they have the power to judge of their own privileges."337"Whether any individual Member might or might not be justified in communicating to some persons out of the House defamatory matter printed for the use of the House, I cannot pretend to say. Probably, upon any such question arising, the decision will be with a jury."336"It is said, that if papers, however defamatory, must needs be printed for the use of the Members, as it is plain they must, and the point is not disputed, their further circulation cannot be avoided; for what is to be done with the copies upon a dissolution of Parliament, or upon the death or retirement of a Member? The answer is obvious: the copy of such defamatory matter ought to be destroyed, as it can no longer be used for the purpose for which it was intended; or at all events it must not be communicated to others."335"The privileges of Parliament appear to me to be confined to the walls of Parliament for what is necessary for the transaction of the business there, to protect individual Members, so as that they may always be able to attend their duties, and to punish persons who are guilty of contempts to the House, or against
335"I think it can never be considered as justifiable in a Member of Parliament to publish defamatory matter of other persons to justify his own conduct in Parliament.""It is said that it is proper that the Members of the House should have the right to send copies of all the parliamentary papers to their constituents, to justify themselves in case their constituents should find any fault with their conduct in Parliament. If the Member whose conduct is blamed by his constituents wishes to vindicate his conduct, he may send what parliamentary papers he pleases provided they do not contain any criminatory matter of individuals."334l.l.333"In the first place I would observe that the act of selling does not give the plaintiff any additional ground of action or redress at law beyond the act of publishing. The injury is precisely the same in its nature, whether the publication be for money or not, though it may be much more extensively injurious when scattered over the land for profit,"332331330329"'The song and the dance, said Mr. Norris, are promoted. Mr. Wilberforce said, it would have been more fair if he had explained in what way they were promoted. The truth was, that, for the sake of exercise, these miserable wretches, loaded with chains, and oppressed with disease, were forced to dance by the tenor of the lash, and sometimes by the actual use of it. 'I,' said one of the evidences, 'was employed to dance the men, while another danced the women.' What, then, was the meaning of the word 'promoted?' And it might be said with respect to the African sauces being provided, and all the delicacies of African luxury, that it was proved in evidence that an instrument was sometimes carried out in order to force the slaves to eat. That was evidence how much they enjoyed themselves. As to their singing, what should they say when told that their songs were those of lamentation on departing from their native land, and that while singing they were always in tears, so much so, that one of the captains threatened one woman with a flogging, because her song was too painful for his feelings?'"328"The apartments of the slaves were fitted up for their accommodation as much as circumstances would allow. The right ancle of one was connected by a small manacle to the left of another; and, if they were turbulent, they were also confined by irons to their wrists. They had several meals a day, of all the luxuries that Africa provided, with African
328327326l.l."Thus the privilege of having their debates unquestioned, though denied when the Members began to speak their minds in the time of Queen Elizabeth, and punished in its exercise both by that Princess and her two successors, was soon clearly perceived to be indispensable, and universally acknowledged."325"The proof of this privilege was grounded on three principles; necessity, practice, universal acquiescence. If the necessity can be made out, no more need be said; it is the foundation of every privilege of Parliament, and justifies all that it requires.""The Commons of England are not invested with more of power and dignity by their legislative character, than by that which they bear as the grand inquest of the nation. All the privileges that can be required for the energetic discharge of the duties inherent in that high trust, are conceded without a murmur or a doubt. We freely admit them in all their extent and variety."Aula Regia,"That Parliament enjoys privileges of the most important character, no person capable of the least reflection can doubt for a moment. Some are common to both Houses, some peculiar to each; all are essential to the discharge of their functions. If they were not the fruit of deliberation in Aula Regia,324323 said, he thought it would be conceded to him, that if he adhered to the opinions heretofore given by him, or rather if he persisted in the course which, up to that hour, the House of Commons had taken, he could have no motive whatever but a conscientious one. There was no particular claim upon him, on the part of the present House of Commons, if he looked to the mere merits of the existing-institution, that should induce him to come forward in its defence. That House had reposed no confidence in him, and it therefore had no claim upon him, except that which was imposed by a conscientious sense of duty. If mere party considerations could influence him, he would have ranged himself with those with whom he had uniformly acted, rather than with a party with whom he had a temporary but very short agreement, and whom he should, with perfect cordiality, in the very next week, vote to be utterly unworthy of his and the public confidence. He said, therefore, that if he did deviate from the course which the majority of his hon. Friends were inclined to take, it could be from nothing but a sense of that duty which he owed to his country. He would not say, indeed, that there was any deviation on his part: on the contrary, he considered that it was an adherence to the principles of those with whom he uniformly acted. Last session a case exactly parallel occurred—the memorable case of Polack. When Polack gave notice that he meant to bring an action against Mr. Hansard, the House resolved, by the greatest majority he ever remembered in this House—a majority of 120 to four—that Mr. Hansard should not plead. Yet the House considered Polack guilty of a breach of privilege. Therefore he was acting, not only in conformity with his own opinion, but likewise in conformity with what he had a right to presume was the almost unanimous opinion of the House of Commons. He would state to the House the grounds upon which he had arrived at his opinion, and with the utmost admiration for the ingenuity of the arguments which which had been brought forward in this this debate, in order to show the difficulties with which they were surrounded, and the
"I would not have spoken about our privileges, if the thing questioned were only matter of form, and not of matter; but this is of that importance to us, that if we should yield our liberties to be but of grace, these walls that have known the holding of them these many years, would blush; and therefore we cannot, in duty to our country, but stand upon it, that our liberties and privileges are our undoubted birthright and inheritance."340339"Holt differed from the other judges on the point of the House of Commons being the only judge of its own privileges, but that the courts must be governed by the eleven, and not by the single one.'ad aliud examen."338"When the House of Commons," said he "Adjudge anything to be a contempt or a breach of privilege, their adjudication is a conviction. This court cannot take cognizance of a commitment by the House of
ad aliud examen."338Habeas CorpusHabeas Corpus"The House of Commons is undoubtedly a high court; and it is agreed on all hands, that they have the power to judge of their own privileges."337"Whether any individual Member might or might not be justified in communicating to some persons out of the House defamatory matter printed for the use of the House, I cannot pretend to say. Probably, upon any such question arising, the decision will be with a jury."336"It is said, that if papers, however defamatory, must needs be printed for the use of the Members, as it is plain they must, and the point is not disputed, their further circulation cannot be avoided; for what is to be done with the copies upon a dissolution of Parliament, or upon the death or retirement of a Member? The answer is obvious: the copy of such defamatory matter ought to be destroyed, as it can no longer be used for the purpose for which it was intended; or at all events it must not be communicated to others."335"The privileges of Parliament appear to me to be confined to the walls of Parliament for what is necessary for the transaction of the business there, to protect individual Members, so as that they may always be able to attend their duties, and to punish persons who are guilty of contempts to the House, or against
335"I think it can never be considered as justifiable in a Member of Parliament to publish defamatory matter of other persons to justify his own conduct in Parliament.""It is said that it is proper that the Members of the House should have the right to send copies of all the parliamentary papers to their constituents, to justify themselves in case their constituents should find any fault with their conduct in Parliament. If the Member whose conduct is blamed by his constituents wishes to vindicate his conduct, he may send what parliamentary papers he pleases provided they do not contain any criminatory matter of individuals."334l.l.333"In the first place I would observe that the act of selling does not give the plaintiff any additional ground of action or redress at law beyond the act of publishing. The injury is precisely the same in its nature, whether the publication be for money or not, though it may be much more extensively injurious when scattered over the land for profit,"332331330329"'The song and the dance, said Mr. Norris, are promoted. Mr. Wilberforce said, it would have been more fair if he had explained in what way they were promoted. The truth was, that, for the sake of exercise, these miserable wretches, loaded with chains, and oppressed with disease, were forced to dance by the tenor of the lash, and sometimes by the actual use of it. 'I,' said one of the evidences, 'was employed to dance the men, while another danced the women.' What, then, was the meaning of the word 'promoted?' And it might be said with respect to the African sauces being provided, and all the delicacies of African luxury, that it was proved in evidence that an instrument was sometimes carried out in order to force the slaves to eat. That was evidence how much they enjoyed themselves. As to their singing, what should they say when told that their songs were those of lamentation on departing from their native land, and that while singing they were always in tears, so much so, that one of the captains threatened one woman with a flogging, because her song was too painful for his feelings?'"328"The apartments of the slaves were fitted up for their accommodation as much as circumstances would allow. The right ancle of one was connected by a small manacle to the left of another; and, if they were turbulent, they were also confined by irons to their wrists. They had several meals a day, of all the luxuries that Africa provided, with African
328327326l.l."Thus the privilege of having their debates unquestioned, though denied when the Members began to speak their minds in the time of Queen Elizabeth, and punished in its exercise both by that Princess and her two successors, was soon clearly perceived to be indispensable, and universally acknowledged."325"The proof of this privilege was grounded on three principles; necessity, practice, universal acquiescence. If the necessity can be made out, no more need be said; it is the foundation of every privilege of Parliament, and justifies all that it requires.""The Commons of England are not invested with more of power and dignity by their legislative character, than by that which they bear as the grand inquest of the nation. All the privileges that can be required for the energetic discharge of the duties inherent in that high trust, are conceded without a murmur or a doubt. We freely admit them in all their extent and variety."Aula Regia,"That Parliament enjoys privileges of the most important character, no person capable of the least reflection can doubt for a moment. Some are common to both Houses, some peculiar to each; all are essential to the discharge of their functions. If they were not the fruit of deliberation in Aula Regia,324323Sir Robert Peel
 could not help observing that his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Jackson) had, in pursuance of a notice he had given, asked a question in ten plain words, namely, what was the date of the despatch, and he should have been perfectly contented if the noble Lord had in so many words have answered, "the 19th of May;" but the noble Lord had entered into a lengthened explanation, which he confessed was to him wholly unsatisfactory. He considered the question to be much prejudiced by that explanation, and that the noble Lord had gained an undue advantage by not answering the questions in the same brief terms in which it was asked. He, however, not only thought the explanation of the noble Lord to be unsatisfactory, but was prepared to show that it was unsatisfactory. But, although the noble Lord had, contrary to the rules of the House, been allowed to enter into a lengthened statement, yet he was precluded from answering it.Sir Robert Peel
 asked the noble Lord whether he had any objection to the production of the letter and memorandum which he had just read.Sir R. Peel
318317"Hear, hear!"316315v.314313312311310309a priori,308307306305v.304303 said, that perhaps it might appear presumptuous in one who had no claims to professional knowledge to interfere in the discussion of the present evening, which hitherto had been principally carried on by members of the legal profession. But he did think that this was a subject on which perhaps they had already paid too much attention to mere technicalities, to nice distinctions, and to splitting hairs upon judgments pronounced in former days, instead of directing their attention mainly to those leading principles of the constitution, and of the law of the land, which in his opinion were sufficient to enable even those Gentlemen who had not the advantage of a professional education, to pronounce on a subject of this land, with some degree of confidence, that they had at least a right to exercise their own judgment. He confessed he was very anxious to hear from the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir E; Sugden) who had just sat down, a distinct declaration whether he proposed for the future to place all the privileges, the most important and incontestable the House possessed, entirely at the mercy of the courts of law. Would the right hon. and learned Gentleman abide by the decision of the courts of law in all cases?—and would he tell them, to submit to the regular course of law, in any proceeding that might be brought against the House—in violation of the clearest and most indisputable privileges which the House possessed? For instance, suppose, that this action had been brought not against Hansard, but against the Speaker. In that case, if the judge who presided had given an opinion of the same kind as was given with respect to Hansard, if he had maintained that an action lay against the Speaker, and if he had in consequence been awarded damages against the Speaker, and if the sheriff of London or Middlesex had proceeded to levy execution in the official residence of the Speaker—on the goods and plate officially belonging to the Speaker—would the right hon. Gentleman tell
318317"Hear, hear!"316315v.314313312311310309a priori,308307306305v.304303Viscount Howick
 suggested, that the proceeding recommended by the hon. Baronet was somewhat irregular. The House had already adjudged the sheriffs to have been guilty of a contempt. Surely to give persons so situated time to consider whether or not they would comply with the orders of the House, was inconsistent with their practice. He believed the rule of both Houses was, that when they had declared, that any party had been guilty of a breach of privilege, that he was instantly ordered to be committed in contempt, and it was only on the petition of the parties, and making amends as far as they could for their offences, that the House was accustomed to adopt the course suggested. He thought, that the course recommended by the hon. Baronet would be irregular, and would tend to lessen the dignity of the House.Viscount Howick
 requested his gallant Friend to withdraw his amendment.Lord Mahon
 replied, that the letter was not sent home by Lord Howard as a despatch; still he had no objection to the production of the papers.Viscount Palmerston
 replied, that the letter to Viscount de Sa was not in conformity with the instructions sent to Lord Howard de Walden. He himself stated that, and he took upon himself to agree to a modification of those instructions.Viscount Palmerston
249sub spe rati.sub spe rati,"At a conference held this day between the Viscount Sa da Bandeira and Lord Howard de Walden, Lord Howard declared, that he did not feel authorized, under his instructions, to affix his signature to any treaty for the abolition of the slave-trade, which did not contain a provision for making that traffic piracy. The Viscount Sa da Bandeira, on the part of the Portuguese Government, stated that force of circumstances alone prevented his acquiescing in such a stipulation in the proposed treaty; but declared, in the name of the Queen of Portugal, her most faithful Majesty's willingness to become party, by either a joint or simultaneous act, to any general measure adopted by other European powers for the above object. The Viscount de Sa da Bandeira and Lord Howard having both also weighed the various inconveniences which might arise from a delay at this moment in the actual signature of the treaty, containing important stipulations so entirely in conformity with so many of the other principles and details of the project as presented to the Portuguese Government, have agreed to affix their signatures to the treaty sub spe rati,248"Allusions having been made more than once officially by the Viscount Sa da Bandeira to my departure from Lisbon in May last, as the cause of the non-signature of the treaty for the abolition of the slave-trade then under negotiation, I have the honour herewith to enclose a copy of a memorandum which, a short time before I broke off the negotiation of the said treaty, I drew up hastily at the moment, as explanatory of the grounds on which alone I could consent to affix my signature to it at all, (containing, as I felt it did, several provisions which could not be satisfactory to her Majesty's Government), even supposing the two main difficulties under discussion, created by the Portuguese government, respecting piracy, and the proposed guarantee, to have been overcome. I did not forward this paper at the time, as no discussion on the subject of it took place. I had merely read it over to the Viscount de Sa on delivering it to
248sub e rati."I am not authorised to sign a treaty without that declaration, but if you will make a declaration nearly tantamount to if, I will take upon me to sign the treaty without the declaration, and carry it home to my Government sub e rati."No minister at this moment could venture to contract an engagement to pass such a law, with a knowledge of the feeling which existed throughout the country respecting slave-trade; there being on one side active opposition to the suppression of the slave-trade, while total indifference was the characteristic of the feelings of the greater part of those to whom the Government must look for support as against the machinations of the advocates of the slave-trade."247"In order to record the objections brought by the Viscount Sa da Bandeira, on the part of the Portuguese Government to the required declaration as to piracy, I addressed a note to his Excellency, of which I enclose a copy, submitting drafts of two articles embodying that principle, either of which I proposed to adopt. In reply to this note, the Viscount has promised [but he did not keep that promise] to make such a declaration on the subject of piracy as his Excellency trusts confidently will remove the only difficulty on the part of her Majesty's Government to accepting the treaty, as it will stand on my departure from Lisbon."sub spe rati,"If you cannot do what we wish, do as nearly as you can. I will write to you an official note, demanding, that you should declare the slave-trade piracy. This I cannot expect you to do, because you have told me it cannot be done; but do you, in answer to my note, state your intention to declare the slave-trade piracy, when the other powers of Europe shall agree to do so. That may, perhaps, be satisfactory to my government; and if you do as I have suggested, I will agree to sign the treaty, without its containing a declaration that the slave-trade is piracy, sub spe rati,246 replied, that no day of the month was affixed to the note to which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred; but, comparing its contents with other documents which were fully dated, he believed it must hare been written on the 19th of May. As some remarks had been made upon this subject which he thought very unfounded, he hoped the House would allow him to state very shortly the precise circumstances under which this note had been written. The whole of it would be found in the despatch, the inclosure of which was quoted on Thursday night by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tana worth. If anybody would read the despatch which was to be found among the papers recently laid before Parliament from Lord Howard de Walden to Viscount Sa da Bandeira, dated the 20th May, 1838, he would see the whole history of that which was a very simple transaction, although it had apparently been very much mystified. In the negotiation between Lord Howard de Walden and Viscount Sa da Bandeira, there was one point on which Lord Howard insisted, and there was another on which Viscount Sa da Bandeira insisted, Lord Howard insisted that the Portuguese Government should agree to assimilate their law on the subject of the slave-trade to the law of this country, and should declare slave-trade to be piracy, and Viscount Sa da Bandeira insisted that England should give a guarantee to Portugal of her African dominions. In this
249sub spe rati.sub spe rati,"At a conference held this day between the Viscount Sa da Bandeira and Lord Howard de Walden, Lord Howard declared, that he did not feel authorized, under his instructions, to affix his signature to any treaty for the abolition of the slave-trade, which did not contain a provision for making that traffic piracy. The Viscount Sa da Bandeira, on the part of the Portuguese Government, stated that force of circumstances alone prevented his acquiescing in such a stipulation in the proposed treaty; but declared, in the name of the Queen of Portugal, her most faithful Majesty's willingness to become party, by either a joint or simultaneous act, to any general measure adopted by other European powers for the above object. The Viscount de Sa da Bandeira and Lord Howard having both also weighed the various inconveniences which might arise from a delay at this moment in the actual signature of the treaty, containing important stipulations so entirely in conformity with so many of the other principles and details of the project as presented to the Portuguese Government, have agreed to affix their signatures to the treaty sub spe rati,248"Allusions having been made more than once officially by the Viscount Sa da Bandeira to my departure from Lisbon in May last, as the cause of the non-signature of the treaty for the abolition of the slave-trade then under negotiation, I have the honour herewith to enclose a copy of a memorandum which, a short time before I broke off the negotiation of the said treaty, I drew up hastily at the moment, as explanatory of the grounds on which alone I could consent to affix my signature to it at all, (containing, as I felt it did, several provisions which could not be satisfactory to her Majesty's Government), even supposing the two main difficulties under discussion, created by the Portuguese government, respecting piracy, and the proposed guarantee, to have been overcome. I did not forward this paper at the time, as no discussion on the subject of it took place. I had merely read it over to the Viscount de Sa on delivering it to
248sub e rati."I am not authorised to sign a treaty without that declaration, but if you will make a declaration nearly tantamount to if, I will take upon me to sign the treaty without the declaration, and carry it home to my Government sub e rati."No minister at this moment could venture to contract an engagement to pass such a law, with a knowledge of the feeling which existed throughout the country respecting slave-trade; there being on one side active opposition to the suppression of the slave-trade, while total indifference was the characteristic of the feelings of the greater part of those to whom the Government must look for support as against the machinations of the advocates of the slave-trade."247"In order to record the objections brought by the Viscount Sa da Bandeira, on the part of the Portuguese Government to the required declaration as to piracy, I addressed a note to his Excellency, of which I enclose a copy, submitting drafts of two articles embodying that principle, either of which I proposed to adopt. In reply to this note, the Viscount has promised [but he did not keep that promise] to make such a declaration on the subject of piracy as his Excellency trusts confidently will remove the only difficulty on the part of her Majesty's Government to accepting the treaty, as it will stand on my departure from Lisbon."sub spe rati,"If you cannot do what we wish, do as nearly as you can. I will write to you an official note, demanding, that you should declare the slave-trade piracy. This I cannot expect you to do, because you have told me it cannot be done; but do you, in answer to my note, state your intention to declare the slave-trade piracy, when the other powers of Europe shall agree to do so. That may, perhaps, be satisfactory to my government; and if you do as I have suggested, I will agree to sign the treaty, without its containing a declaration that the slave-trade is piracy, sub spe rati,246Viscount Palmerston
374 was understood to express his regret, that the present contest, which was one entirely between the House of Commons and the Court of Queen's Bench, should have gone on so far as it had. Even in the elaborate speech delivered by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, on the previous evening, he confessed he saw nothing to induce him to alter the opinion he had formed relative to the matter then before the House. That speech, powerful and eloquent as it was, did not carry conviction to his mind. Some of the positions in it could not be maintained, especially that which asserted the unrestricted right of the House of Commons to publish any portion of its proceedings it pleased. He denied, that the privilege of printing and circulation existed to the extent to which it was at present exercised. The right hon. Baronet had told them of the many advantages the public derived from the exercise of this so-called privilege, but he had not alluded to any of the evils which might result. Indeed, were all the proceedings of that House perfectly secret, as they were supposed to be, the printing and publishing of its papers could not be so injurious as it might, under the present circumstance, in some instances be; but at present, when their acts and speeches were so well known, the exercise of the power of publication might be converted into a species of the most intolerable tyranny. But he really thought the House had gone too far already in the present matter. He thought they had argued too much about the question of privilege; but they had not given sufficient attention to the consideration of the consequences likely to ensue from the course they were then adopting. What was the present case? Why, Mr. Stock-dale had only exercised the right of every Englishman to bring an action against an
374Mr. M. Attwood
"That stern dictator of a conquered Land," said, that it was an error from the commencement to have introduced the name of Stockdale. It would have been quite sufficient to have it stated in the evidence, that certain obscene works had been introduced into Newgate, without slating the name of the the party by whom they were so introduced. If that omission had been made, the House would not have been brought into its present difficulty. For the sake of the character of the House with the country, he must protest against this assumption of a power to interfere with the administration of the law. It was such conduct, in in the time of Cromwell, which first brought the House into disrepute with the people, and then caused its abolition. The House took upon itself the functions of a court of law, and amongst other instances ordered to be brought before them Naylor, of Bristol, on account of some religious opinions which he professed. At length Cromwell,
"That stern dictator of a conquered Land,"Mr. Jones, (Carmarthen)
401400habeas corpushabeas eorpus.399"Upon this plea, the judge is bound to discharge me, and if he does not, he is a criminal.""If I am arrested by process out of any court, I am to plead in the court that I am a Member of Parliament, and that by the privilege of Parliament my person ought to be free from arrest."398"We are, say the Commons, and have been always confessed, the only judges of our own privileges; and therefore whatsoever we declare to be our privilege is such: otherwise, whosoever determines that it is not so, makes himself judge of that whereof the cognizance only belongs to us. And this sophistical riddle, "pursued Lord Clarendon," perplexed many who, notwithstanding the desperate consequence they saw must result from such logic, taking the first proposition for true, which being rightly understood, is so, have not been able to wind themselves out of the labyrinth
398History of the RebellionOh397396 said, as there were some cries of question, that he hoped those who were in the majority would allow the minority an opportunity of expressing the reasons On which their votes would be founded. The hon. and learned Gentleman who last addressed the House had referred to the conduct of the judges in the age of Charles 1st, maintaining the claim of privilege at present in issue. It was but fair in argument, if the hon. and learned Gentleman referred to the conduct of the judges in the age of Charles 1st, that he should be permitted to allude to the conduct of the House of Commons at the same period. To illustrate the exercise of privilege by the House of Commons, he certainly would not cite those familiar instances of a tyrannical, and, perhaps, somewhat ludicrous character, which had been alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman. But let it not be forgotten that the House of Commons, in that favourite age to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had thought proper to refer, considered as a breach of privilege, not only every species of conduct which was now considered as most befit-
401400habeas corpushabeas eorpus.399"Upon this plea, the judge is bound to discharge me, and if he does not, he is a criminal.""If I am arrested by process out of any court, I am to plead in the court that I am a Member of Parliament, and that by the privilege of Parliament my person ought to be free from arrest."398"We are, say the Commons, and have been always confessed, the only judges of our own privileges; and therefore whatsoever we declare to be our privilege is such: otherwise, whosoever determines that it is not so, makes himself judge of that whereof the cognizance only belongs to us. And this sophistical riddle, "pursued Lord Clarendon," perplexed many who, notwithstanding the desperate consequence they saw must result from such logic, taking the first proposition for true, which being rightly understood, is so, have not been able to wind themselves out of the labyrinth
398History of the RebellionOh397396Mr. D'Israeli
408"But to shield the House against the exorbitant privileges of the Crown, which might be exercised so as to stop free discussion, and the free agitation of Parliament, the House, however, claimed privileges now which were not beneficial to the public. It could never have been in contemplation, that Members should be protected against arrest for private debt. But the object of Parliament had altered with the change in the state of the country. It used to be a regulation, that no proceedings in the House be reported out of it. This, among other things, had yielded to the alteration in the state of society. There was this difficulty in the way of the House, that when it once interfered, there was no means of knowing when it should stop. He considered the House should have all those powers which were necessary for the welfare of the public; and he should not, therefore, oppose the resolutions [cheers from the ministerial benches], which he thought rational and consistent with the proper respect for the liberty of the subject.""Sir F. Burdett could not help feeling the extreme difficulty of the case, but agreed with the noble Lord, that the House ought to possess whatever power was necessary for the proper performance of its functions. The privileges of this House were not intended to be used as powers against other persons."407"That Messrs. Hansard, in printing and publishing the report and the minutes of evidence on the present state of the Island of New Zealand, communicated by the House of
407; To take a phrase from the hon. Baronet who has just sat down, I ask, "What is all this about?" It certainly is about, and about, and about everything, and seems very little to touch upon that which is the matter in dispute. As to his parenthetic allusion to myself, it has as much to do with the question as any other of the many ramblings of the erratic Baronet. I had once the infliction of his praise—I hope that never will occur again. Amongst all his wanderings I trust he will save me from that punishment, and I forgive him everything else. I now allude to him because on this point he has directly contradicted himself—if that could or can be an awkward predicament for him. Here he has found fault with the Attorney-general for what he has done; and now let me call your attention to certain resolutions passed on the 1st August, 1839. Permit me to read them for you:
408"But to shield the House against the exorbitant privileges of the Crown, which might be exercised so as to stop free discussion, and the free agitation of Parliament, the House, however, claimed privileges now which were not beneficial to the public. It could never have been in contemplation, that Members should be protected against arrest for private debt. But the object of Parliament had altered with the change in the state of the country. It used to be a regulation, that no proceedings in the House be reported out of it. This, among other things, had yielded to the alteration in the state of society. There was this difficulty in the way of the House, that when it once interfered, there was no means of knowing when it should stop. He considered the House should have all those powers which were necessary for the welfare of the public; and he should not, therefore, oppose the resolutions [cheers from the ministerial benches], which he thought rational and consistent with the proper respect for the liberty of the subject.""Sir F. Burdett could not help feeling the extreme difficulty of the case, but agreed with the noble Lord, that the House ought to possess whatever power was necessary for the proper performance of its functions. The privileges of this House were not intended to be used as powers against other persons."407"That Messrs. Hansard, in printing and publishing the report and the minutes of evidence on the present state of the Island of New Zealand, communicated by the House of
407Mr. O'Connell
 called to the bar.Mr. Howard
v.: Were you concerned in the action of Stockdale v.The Attorney General
 withdrew.Mr. Howard
 called the right hon. and learned Gentleman to order. The question they were discussing was whether a certain question should be put.Mr. O'Connell
 ordered to attend the House on the following day, and the petition of Messrs. Hansard to be then taken into further consideration.Mr. Howard
421 considered the systematic exclusion of Irish Members from committees as extraordinary, when
421Mr. Smith O'Brien
375 said he should have abstained from obtruding himself at all upon the attention of the House, were he not anxious to record, in justice to himself and his constituents, the opinion which he entertained on the present matter. For his part, he wished to disclaim any share in what he considered so degrading and dishonourable a transaction as the course the House was then pursuing. They went so far as to deny the right of any subject in this country to seek from a court of justice satisfaction or compensation for injury done. He fully agreed with the view of the present case taken by his hon. Friend the Member for Whitehaven; and having looked narrowly at all their proceedings, from the very commencement, he could not but consider them fraught with injustice and evil of great magnitude. The House had been, even from the first, in a false position. It was wrong all through when it authorised the sale of its documents. It was too evident that such was the opinion of the country, for a jury had more than once confirmed that opinion,
375Colonel Conolly
388387386385384"That the power of publishing such of its reports, votes, and proceedings, as it shall deem necessary or conducive to the public interest, is an essential incident to the constitutional functions of Parliament, more especially of this House, as the representative portion of it."383 could not avoid saying a few words as to the position in which the sheriffs stood, as regarded this question. They had not attempted to oppose the
388387386385384"That the power of publishing such of its reports, votes, and proceedings, as it shall deem necessary or conducive to the public interest, is an essential incident to the constitutional functions of Parliament, more especially of this House, as the representative portion of it."383Mr. Law
 moved that the House do now adjourn.Mr. Law
 would certainly object to a course of examination involving the witness, with a view to his committal, though that course had been pursued with respect to other persons. If the House wished to put on the semblance of justice, they would not proceed with this examination at so unreasonable an hour. Hon. Members had been sitting in that House till half-past three this morning, upon a most harassing inquiry, and he contended it was most improper to enter upon any thing approaching to an adjudication of the case at that time.Mr. Law
 objected to the question.Mr. Law
 moved that the sheriffs, having been guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House, should be committed to the custody of the Sergeant at Arms, and that the Speaker do issue his warrant accordingly.Lord J. Russell
373bona fide372371370369 wished he could see, in the petition which was now under consideration, any reason which would justify the House in acceding to the motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He was ready to agree that, with regard to their general conduct, however they might have disobeyed the injunctions, and broken the privileges of the House, the sheriffs had certainly shown a very great desire, not at once to comply with the Court of Queen's Bench upon the question of the jurisdiction of the House of Commons, but to reserve that question for further consideration. He was also ready to admit, that in their conduct at the bar of the House, on a former day, they had shown every wish to pay respect to the House; but if he passed from that to the petition itself, he found, although they had heard from the Speaker, the resolutions of the House, that far from their being ready to conform to that decision, they attempted to justify the conduct which they had pursued, and expressed a determination that they should persist in the same course. The petition was, no doubt, framed in respectful terms towards the House; but it declared a determination not to submit to the resolution of the House, and a delaration that they were justfied in so acting; and it furthermore contained a request that the House would support them in that determination. Stated in this way, and looking upon the face of the petition itself, he could not say that the petition afforded any ground whatever, after the twenty-four hours' time for consideration which the sheriffs had had, for him to desist from the course which he had already thought it his duty to propose. But if he considered the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he should see still far less reason in complying with the course recommended by him. For the whole speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman is this:—"There is a
373bona fide372371370369Lord John Russell
 would then move, that the order with respect to the under-sheriffs be discharged.Lord John Russell
 rose to order. Though during the discussion of this question there had been many imputations thrown out against the House, and more especially against those who had taken a leading part in these proceedings, he had thought it more consistent with the freedom of debate to allow them to pass unnoticed; but after the House had come to a deliberate decision, he thought it disrespectful to make use of such an expression as that which had just fallen from the right hon. and learned Gentleman in asking—was not the vengeance of the House satisfied?Lord John Russell
, knowing that it was in the power of a minority, however small, to prevent the House from proceeding with any business by persisting in moving the motion of adjournment, would not enter into a contest with the hon. Gentleman opposite upon that point on the present occasion. If the examination of Mr. Howard were objected to at that hour of the night, he should make no objection to defer his examination till to-morrow. He begged to move, therefore, that the question now before the House be withdrawn, and also to move "that Mr. Howard do attend to-morrow."Lord John Russell
 observed that the hon. and learned Member's amendment would be useless for the purpose for which it was intended; because if he should succeed in carrying the adjournment of the House upon the present occasion, and thereby defeat the motion that Mr. Howard should be called to the bar to-morrow, it would still be competent to him to move that that gentleman be brought to the bar and examined at any time that he pleased.Lord John Russell
 replied that the bill he now proposed to read a second time did not at all affect or vary the Act of Settlement, and he could assure the right hon. Baronet, that he should be as unwilling as any hon. Member of that House to propose any change or alteration in that act. The bill provided only for the exhibition of a bill this session for the naturalization of Prince Albert, which secured to him certain rights as a British subject. He did not think that any objection could be taken to pursuing the same course in the case of Prince Albert as had been pursued in the case of Prince Leopold. He wished the bill to be now read a second time, and tomorrow he should propose to carry it through the rest of its stages.Lord J. Russell
Tunc cede malis ad contra audentior ito.380379v.378 was sorry to find himself in opposition on the present question to many hon. Members with whom he usually voted in that House, and his alliance with whom he exulted and rejoiced in, because he believed, under Providence, that to the compact, unbroken union of Conservative party they must look for the salvation of the country. He was sorry, he repeated, to find himself opposed most strongly, and in principle, to the course pursued by the majority of those hon. Members with whom he usually acted, but
Tunc cede malis ad contra audentior ito.380379v.378Lord Teignmouth
: The reason urged by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Warburton) against inquiry into the subject of travelling by railroads on Sunday had no force at all, for the modes of travelling to which he alluded were private, and that by railway was public. One was fairly the subject of public inquiry, the other was not.Mr. Pringle
 was sure that the hon. and learned Member would see that he was using expressions which were not parliamentary.The Speaker
: What is your name?—Thomas Burton Howard.The Speaker
: What is your profession?—I am an attorney.The Speaker
 said the motion could not be made without notice.The Speaker
 asked what was the object of calling this gentleman before the House at all? They had imprisoned the plaintiff, and Mr. Howard was only the attorney. They had not ventured to call the counsel before them, who had been as much guilty of a breach of the privileges of this House as the attorney. He objected altogether to punishing the attorney. As regarded the counsel, he repeated they had not called them to the bar, and he knew they would not dare to call them. Why did they not call Mr. Burchell? Because that Gentleman acted in a judicial capacity, however humble.Sir Edward Sugden
 contended, that his observation was relevant, because the person who had been called should be examined. Though he had persuaded his hon. Friend (Mr. Godson) to withdraw his amendment just now, on another question, yet if that course were to be persisted in, he would support motions for adjournment all night. Was not the vengeance of the House satisfied?Sir Edward Sugden
 hoped, that his hon. and and learned Friend would not press this amendment. There must be some time when the minority must bow to the decision of the majority. He hoped, therefore, his hon. and learned Friend would enable the House to come to a decision upon the main question at once.Sir E. Sugden
 would tell the House very plainly that proceedings like the present were very apt to lead a man into warmer expressions that he would otherwise use. He felt indignant at the course of proceeding adopted by the noble Lord with respect to the person who has been brought to the bar. He did not think it worthy of the House to pursue the attorney in this cause. They had already committed the plaintiff and the two sheriffs—was not that enough to satisfy their privileges? The vindication of their privileges was denied by the unanimous judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench, and by other eminent judges; it was denied by the first lawyers of Westminster-hall, and it was denied by common sense. He thought the consideration of that fact should induce the House to pause in the extreme course of punishment which the noble Lord seemed to desire. He thought every thing had been done that was necessary, and having confined the plaintiff it would be unworthy in the House to confine the attorney. When the proper time came he would make a motion that Mr. Howard be discharged.Sir Edward Sugden
 moved as an amendment that the House do now adjourn.Mr. Kelly
418 bowed at once to the decision of the Chair; but he could not allow a question to be put, as to whether more of her Majesty's subjects should be called to the bar for the purpose of examination and punishment for actions which he deemed perfectly lawful, without opposing it to the utmost of his power. After what the noble Lord had stated, he would not now divide the House upon the question of adjournment; but if the noble Lord, either to-morrow or upon any other occasion, should attempt to bring to the bar any other individuals for examination
418Mr. Kelly
cries of "order, as long as the noble Lord persevered in selecting, as he thought, on principles of arbitrary caprice, the different individuals upon whom the vengeance of the House was to be directed—[cries of "orderMr. Kelly
"They feel it their duty solemnly to assure your honourable House that throughout the the case of Stockdale v. Hansard, your petitioners have acted with respect and obedience to what they had been advised, and verily believed it to be their duty to their Sovereign and the Court of Queen's Bench whose officers they were; that your petitioners are sworn, among other things, to duly return and truly serve all the Queen's writs, according to the best of their ability; and they verily, and in their true judgment and conscience, believe they are bound to 'obey' (according to the natural and ordinary interpretation of the oath as expounded by her Majesty's judges, 'the Queen's writs, according to the law and practice of the courts from which such writs issue,' and 'according to the exigency of said writs,' and your petitioners believe that if they fail so to obey the said writs, they will act in violation of the duty they owe to her Majesty the Queen, and that they will be compelled, in due course of law, to make good the sum which they are ordered by this honourable House to refund to Messrs. Hansard; and that if they refuse to make good this sum, they will be liable to attachment and imprisonment in one of her Majesty's gaols. And they further assure the House that throughout the whole of their proceedings they have endeavoured to give effect to the law as delivered by the judges of the Queen's Bench; and they pray they may not be amerced or imprisoned for having honestly endeavoured to discharge the duty cast upon them by law, according to the best of their judgment and ability, and according to what they in their conscience believe to be the solemn obligation of an oath."fieri facias"Your honourable House having resolved, that the petitioners have committed a breach of the privileges of this honourable House, and ordered them to refund the money levied on the goods of the Messrs. Hansard, under a fieri facias359 rose to present two petitions from the sheriffs, the prayer of which was the same, and the hon. and learned Gentleman then proceeded to state
"They feel it their duty solemnly to assure your honourable House that throughout the the case of Stockdale v. Hansard, your petitioners have acted with respect and obedience to what they had been advised, and verily believed it to be their duty to their Sovereign and the Court of Queen's Bench whose officers they were; that your petitioners are sworn, among other things, to duly return and truly serve all the Queen's writs, according to the best of their ability; and they verily, and in their true judgment and conscience, believe they are bound to 'obey' (according to the natural and ordinary interpretation of the oath as expounded by her Majesty's judges, 'the Queen's writs, according to the law and practice of the courts from which such writs issue,' and 'according to the exigency of said writs,' and your petitioners believe that if they fail so to obey the said writs, they will act in violation of the duty they owe to her Majesty the Queen, and that they will be compelled, in due course of law, to make good the sum which they are ordered by this honourable House to refund to Messrs. Hansard; and that if they refuse to make good this sum, they will be liable to attachment and imprisonment in one of her Majesty's gaols. And they further assure the House that throughout the whole of their proceedings they have endeavoured to give effect to the law as delivered by the judges of the Queen's Bench; and they pray they may not be amerced or imprisoned for having honestly endeavoured to discharge the duty cast upon them by law, according to the best of their judgment and ability, and according to what they in their conscience believe to be the solemn obligation of an oath."fieri facias"Your honourable House having resolved, that the petitioners have committed a breach of the privileges of this honourable House, and ordered them to refund the money levied on the goods of the Messrs. Hansard, under a fieri facias359Mr. FitzRoy Kelly
367366365364363362361360 rose for the purpose of moving that the petition be forthwith taken into consideration. If he could persuade himself that the noble Lord would not object to that motion—if he were convinced that the noble Lord would feel that this was a petition which imperatively called upon the Members of the House to proceed to consider it before the motion
367366365364363362361360Mr. FitzRoy Kelly
 would then beg leave to move that the Sheriff of Middlesex be called to the bar, and be forthwith discharged.Mr. Kelly
 moved the insertion of the name of Mr. E. Tennent in the committee list. England, Wales, and Scotland were represented on the committee, but no Member from Ireland had been put on it. The Gentleman whom he named was of opposite politics to his own, and he named him; there was at present a railroad at work near Belfast.Mr. F. French
377376 said, as the noble Lord opposite, the Secretary for the Colonies, had thought fit, in the course of his observations on the present matter, to attribute to the Gentleman on the side of the House opposite to the noble Lord the opinions that there was no such thing as the law of Parliament, and the only law was that which the Queen's Bench inculcated, he, for his part, should say that there was in his opinion a law and a custom of Parliament; and, further, that the Court of Queen's Bench had never denied the same. He utterly denied that Sir Robert Peel had sustained his position that the printing and publishing of its papers were necessary and essential to the functions of that House. There had been a difference of opinion on a material question in the present discussion, even amongst those who supported another view than that which he (Mr. Darby) took of it. The Queen's Bench differed as to whether this was a privilege of Parliament. The Attorney-general had differed, and even
377376Mr. Darby
411 feared that the result of the decision of that House would be one of serious consequence, whether they triumphed, or whether they failed. He would not discuss the question of privileges, as there were others far more competent to that task; but he would venture to say this, that whatever might be the result of their privileges, their character would be materially injured if they proceeded to enact what he must describe as a most fatal injustice. They were about to commit to prison men deservedly popular among their fellow citizens; men who held their office by election from the people; and that, too, when it had been admitted by everybody that their conduct had been most honourable, and that they
411Mr. Kemble
 moved for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the management of railroads.Mr. Labouchere
: This committee was in fact a revival of that which sat last year. The committee of last year had advised that another should be appointed in the present Session for the purpose of completing the inquiries which had been entered upon. With regard to the question put by the hon. Member, as he was not a Member of the committee of last year, he could not say whether the subject were noticed by them. He took it for granted, however, that the committee had an absolute discretion as to entering on the investigation.Mr. Labouchere
: As to the names of the Members of the committee, he begged to say that the only change he made in them was the substitution of his own name for the former President of the Board of Trade; and that of Mr. Easthope, a gentleman extensively connected with railroad property, for Mr. Childers, who stated he could not attend until Easter.Mr. Labouchere
420: The hon. Gentleman might, if he chose, move for the appointment of a committee to prevent travelling by turnpike roads, cross roads, and foot-
420Mr. Warburton
381 said, that the cases of conflicting jurisdiction between common law courts and Chancery courts which had been mentioned in the course of the debate as illustrations, bore no analogy to the question before the House. He could not
381Mr. Freshfield
 wished to know whether a matter which had greatly shocked the feelings of the Christian part of the community was brought under the cognizance of this committee—he alluded to the travelling by railroads on Sundays.Mr. Plumptre
 protested against the appointment of the committee with such a condition. He denied altogether that they had the power of determining by a side wind what the House had already disposed of.Mr. Hume
Law382 said, that he should not have offered himself to the attention of the House on the present occasion, but for the fact that he was implicated as the person who had recommended the publication of the papers which had raised the whole question now before the House. It appeared to him that not one amongst the various privileges appertaining to that House was of greater importance to the true interests of the people than was the right of publishing reports of committees. The evidence given before committees of that House was peculiarly calculated to bring to light truths of great moment to the people of this country. It was not only of importance to the people to know the facts disclosed in that evidence, but it was highly important to the representatives of the people, and eventually to the community at large, that public opinion upon those great subjects into which committees inquired should be collected by means of submitting to general perusal the evidence of well-informed and intelligent witnesses which such committees from time to time laid before the House, and the House sent forth to the public. It was thus by collecting public sentiment that useful reforms were effected. He admitted that it was with great regret that he recommended the House to act against the
Law382Mr. Hume
417 begged to remind the House, that when the case of Baron
417Mr. Godson
412 begged for a moment to draw the attention of hon. Members to the personal conduct of the two gentlemen implicated in their present proceeding. On Saturday night the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, stated that the conduct of the sheriffs had been most honourable, and all the Gentlemen on the other side of the House, whether calling themselves Reformers, Whigs, Radicals, or Chartists, concurred in the opinion of the right hon. Baronet. It was admitted on all hands that the conduct of the sheriffs up to that moment had been most honourable, and that they had interposed every species of delay before paying the money, in order that that House might have an opportunity of considering the subject, and taking such steps as it should think proper. Were men, who had thus acted, to be subject to, what he must call, an unlimited punishment? The session might last until next September, and yet it was proposed, perhaps, for the whole of this terra to impri-
412Mr. Godson
 would not press his amendment.Mr. Godson
 thought the committee ought to be first appointed, and it could then decide whether the subject alluded to could be brought under its cognizance.Sir E. Knatchbull
: I beg to say, that I am not to be bound by the report, and besides the words, without the circumstances, are nothing at all; but, then, I see nothing inconsistent in it.Sir F. Burdett
406particeps criminis.privilegium,405l'audace.404403Not bear the knife myself."Who should against his murderer shut the door,Strong both against the deed: then as his host,First, as I am his kinsman and his subject,"He's here in double trust;Macbeth,Duncansic volo, sic jubeo, stet pro ratione voluntasex post factoSpeetatum satis, et donatum jam rude,"" Iterum antiquo me includere ludo;402 said, he would not detain the House long at that late period of the evening, and after so many speeches had been made on both sides, when in fact the whole battalion of argument pro and con had been brought forward to the greatest advantage, it would ill become him to touch on any of the points which other Gentlemen had so ably treated; but he could not help taking the opportunity of expressing his own sentiments, and, though far from being inclined—
406particeps criminis.privilegium,405l'audace.404403Not bear the knife myself."Who should against his murderer shut the door,Strong both against the deed: then as his host,First, as I am his kinsman and his subject,"He's here in double trust;Macbeth,Duncansic volo, sic jubeo, stet pro ratione voluntasex post factoSpeetatum satis, et donatum jam rude,"" Iterum antiquo me includere ludo;402Sir Francis Burdett
oh, oh, requested that the noble Lord would state how far the bill was in exact conformity with the Act of Settlement, more especially with respect to the necessity which it imposed that the consort of the Sovereign, whether male or female, should be a Protestant [cries of "oh, oh,Sir R. Inglis
368 seconded the motion. The House ought not to direct their own energies against such "small deer" as the sheriffs, but should at once attack higher game—more worthy of their pursuit. Why not attack the beasts of the forest? Let them assail the lion in his den, and not worry the mere domestic animals. But they had not the power, or else they had not the courage, to pursue those who, if there were any guilty of contempt against their privileges, were the really guilty parties. The Court of Queen's Bench was so far as appeared by the affidavit on the table, legally cognisant of the resolutions and proceedings of the House; why, therefore, should they visit with condign punishment, the ministerial officers of the court, who had
368Sir R. Inglis
395394393contra morem Parliamentarium,una voce392391390389v. would throw himself on the indulgence of the House for a few minutes instating his opinion on this subject, as it was different from that generally entertained by the profession to which he belonged, and he would not be thought to withhold it because it was unpopular. It appeared to him, that his hon. and learned Friends opposite had misstated the question now to be decided by the House. He argued, with his hon. and learned Friend who spoke last, that the House was now sitting as a Court of Parliament with the view of adjudicating in the particular matter of Mr. Hansard, and of exercising their power in protecting him, and preventing his goods being taken away and handed over to Mr. Stockdale. His hon. and learned Friend had argued at great length against the resolutions of 1837. It might be true that these resolutions were wider than was absolutely necessary; but the validity of these resolutions to their full extent was not called in question in the present case. They had to consider only whether they were justified in protecting Mr. Hansard. His hon. and learned Friend had argued with respect to the evils of that House printing papers and documents without reference to their being true or false. He complained that this was a great evil, and said that they should not persist on this course of printing papers, as if that had anything to do with the present proceeding. They were told that public opinion was excited against them; but if it was recollected, that the publication complained of in the present case was one which was perfectly lawful, the alarm in the public mind might be lessened. In the first case of Stockdale 395394393contra morem Parliamentarium,una voce392391390389v.Mr. Erle
433432431 said, it was with pain that he opposed the amendment of his right hon. and learned Friend. It could not be supposed that he had any ill-will against Mr. Howard. He had never seen that gentleman in all his life, and was wholly ignorant of his name and character; but he knew this—or at least had good grounds for believing—that Mr. Howard was the attorney who sued out the writ against Messrs. Hansard; that he filed the declaration, sued out the writ of inquiry, and that he prosecuted the action in every stage, with full knowledge that he was acting in contempt of the privileges of the House. Under these circumstances, he thought they had only one course to pursue. According to precedent and upon principle, what they had hitherto done was perfectly right. It was true, Mr. Stockdale had been committed! but if Mr. Stockdale was to be allowed to bring actions against Messrs. Hansard by means of the agency of Mr. Howard, what did the House gain by committing Mr. Stockdale? The object was to prevent similar actions, and they could only do that by proceeding criminally against those who were the instruments of such actions, in order that other persons, seeing the punishment inflicted upon Mr. Howard, might know what it was they would be liable to, and might be induced thereby to refrain from following his example. With regard to precedents, he himself, the other night, quoted many cases that had occurred, both in the House of Lords and in the House of Commons, for the course they were now pursuing. In Miller's case, which occurred in 1771, was stated by the committee to whom the question was referred, that the committing of the plaintiff and the attorney in the action was one means adopted by the House of Commons for maintaining its privileges. Why was the House of Commons to depart from that course of proceeding in the present instance? Had there been any signs of repentance on the part of any of the parties concerned for having committed this breach of privilege? Had his right hon. and learned Friend given any signs of regret that the privileges of the House had been invaded, or had he given them any encouragement to believe that, a future invasion of them would not take place. Had the judges of the Court of Queen's Bench expressed any intention to follow a different line of conduct
433432431The Attorney General
Oderint dum metuant465464463habeas corpus462461460459v.l.458457456 felt, that some apology was necessary for his again rising to address the House after he had occupied its time at such length during the present debates. He now repeated what he said on the previous occasion, and he did so calmly and coolly, and after much reflection, that the question now at issue was nothing more nor less than whether the people of this country were to live under the law as established by the Legislature, or under the arbitrary authority of that House. The question was not now as to the right of publication. He would assume, for the purposes of argument, that the House possessed the right and privilege of publication, and had the power of vindicating these privileges, not by legal proceedings, not by law, but by the strong arm of power. He would assume that this was the case, and he would ask them whether the course that was now proposed was consistent with their own notions of law and privilege; and whether they thought that their proceedings were likely to lead to a successful issue. He was perfectly satisfied that the noble Lord, and those who took the same view of the case with him, could have no other object than the performance of what they considered to be
Oderint dum metuant465464463habeas corpus462461460459v.l.458457456Mr. Pemberton
"The authority is good and the jurisdiction is a strong one, but these privileges have been committed to us as trustees for the public, and we are not at liberty to give up the jurisdiction."471470469v.468"True it was, the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery in this matter was very extensive, but he was not at liberty to give it up."brevi manu,"The defendant, after attachment is discharged, brings an action at law for damages, and a motion is now made to me for an injunction to restrain him, brevi manu,467v.466 said, he had listened with much attention to the able arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and it appeared to him that almost the whole of the speech which was just concluded had been addressed rather to the case which had been already determined upon by the House, than to the question now before them. The question now was not whether the sheriffs were to be committed, or whether they were to be discharged; but the question now was whether, having taken the steps which they had taken—having passed certain resolutions, and having determined that they would, as far as the constitution gave them power, exercise that power in executing those resolutions—the question was whether, after having committed the sheriffs, the House should stop short, and proceed to that which was the necessary sequel to what the House had already done. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, it was unfair to apply the practice of the Court of Chancery, or resort to it for an analogy to the present proceedings of the House of Commons; and the hon. and learned Gentleman said, and said very truly, that the Court of Chancery assumed no power, no superiority over the courts of common law; that was to say, that the Court of Chancery assumed no power to control the judges of the courts of common law; but the hon. and learned Gentleman
"The authority is good and the jurisdiction is a strong one, but these privileges have been committed to us as trustees for the public, and we are not at liberty to give up the jurisdiction."471470469v.468"True it was, the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery in this matter was very extensive, but he was not at liberty to give it up."brevi manu,"The defendant, after attachment is discharged, brings an action at law for damages, and a motion is now made to me for an injunction to restrain him, brevi manu,467v.466Mr. Pigot
v.: Were you attorney in the case of "Stockdale v.The Attorney General
 was then understood to say, in answer to the Attorney-general, that he was aware of the resolutions of the House, and had been served with a copy of them. The writ had been issued when he filed the declaration—the first proceeding he took was to file the declaration.Mr. Howard
 thought the best course would be to recal the witness, and ask whether he was prepared to make a submission to the House, and to give them an assurance that, under the same circumstances, he would refrain from the course of conduct which he had on this occasion pursued.Mr. S. O'Brien
488: Having had the high honour of sitting twice on the Committee of Privilege, and seen the entire proceedings, felt justified in impressing on the House the necessity of asserting their privileges in a perfectly unequivocal manner. It appeared to him that the right hon. Baronet had laid down a course perfectly safe. It would become the noble Lord to consider the advice of the right hon. Baronet. The assistance given by the right hon. Baronet in asserting their privileges had been already recognised. The powers which he brought towards effecting the results which had taken place could
488Mr. O'Connell
489 rose to order. He would appeal to the Speaker, whether it were consistent with the usages of that assembly, that any hon. Member should
489An Hon. Member
 apologised for the expression which had escaped him. He would move, by way of amendment to the motion that had been made—"That Thomas Burton Howard, having been guilty of a breach of the privileges of this House, and having expressed his regret for the same, be now called to the bar and reprimanded by Mr. Speaker."The Attorney General
 wished to know how far Ministers intended to go. Would they commit the gentlemen at the bar who had argued the case? Would they commit Messrs. Burchell and France? The hon. Member spoke for some minutes, but the continued noise in the House prevented us from catching even the substance of his observations.Mr. M. Attwood
 said, that Mr. Curwood had as much appeared for Mr. Stockdale as had the attorney, and he begged to ask the noble Lord opposite if he intended to call that learned counsel to the bar of the House?Captain Jones
494"That Thomas Burton Howard having been guilty of a contempt and breach of the Privilege of this House, and having expressed his regret at having incurred the displeasure of the House, be now called to the Bar, and reprimanded by Mr. Speaker."Speaker: called in, and addressed in the following term by the 494"That Thomas Burton Howard having been guilty of a contempt and breach of the Privilege of this House, and having expressed his regret at having incurred the displeasure of the House, be now called to the Bar, and reprimanded by Mr. Speaker."Speaker:Mr. Howard
 withdrew.Mr. Howard
 wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to propose the repeal of the Scotch Malt Drawback during the present Session.Colonel Conolly
: I rise to order.Mr. Law
491 had no objection to answer that question. Without repeating the words made use of a short time ago by his hon. and learned Friend (the Attorney-general) he must certainly say, that he had observed that those who differed with him as to the means of best maintaining the dignity and character of the House (that being equally the object of both) seemed to think their cause would be best promoted if they could lead him, and those who thought with him on this occasion, further and further in the committal of the parties concerned in this question. But as they were acting for the purpose of maintaining their privileges only, he was for visiting those parties and committing those parties only whom he thought it necessary so to visit, for that purpose, and for that purpose only. When he was told by those hon. Members who contended for the House giving up its privileges, that the House ought to commit the counsel, and then come to the judges, he was confirmed in his opinion, that they deemed some advantage was to be gained to them, from this proceeding to what might be thought unjustifiable extremities. He must therefore decline the course which the hon. Gentleman had so kindly recommended to him, and he did not propose to call the counsel to the bar to commit them for contempt. What they had done with reepect to commitments was sufficent for the occasion—sufficient to show that the House would never give up the right they had of committing parties who had been guilty of a breach of their privileges. He should end with saying,
491Lord John Russell
 moved as an amendment, that the other orders of the day be now read.Lord John Russell
482 said, that the question for the House to consider in this case, was whether they could, consistently with the maintenance of their privileges, and with the course which they had taken hitherto in this matter, not take the same course with respect to this individual as they had already done with regard to other persons. On listening to the evidence which had been given at the bar, he owned that he was inclined to think that Mr. Howard was disposed to make due submission to this House, and to express his sorrow for the course he had pursued in a matter, in which he had undoubtedly found himself surrounded by considerable difficulties, and therefore, he thought it might not be necessary to pursue with regard to him the same course as had been adopted with regard to others. He found many instances on record of the same course of proceeding as he was about to recommend in this case; but it would be sufficient for the purpose to read one to the House. [The noble Lord then read a case dated 10th December, 1779, of a printer of a newspaper, who had been called before the House to answer for the offence of having grossly misrepresented the speech of a Member, and who having asked the pardon of the hon. Member for the said offence, was ordered to be discharged from any farther proceedings for the said offence.] Upon a consideration of the whole of the present case, he thought he should be justified in now adopting a similar course. Having already committed the plaintiff in this action, who had committed the offence of proceeding against a servant of the House for an act done in the execution of the orders of the House, and the sheriffs who had levied the goods of that servant, he thought that the House had done sufficient to vindicate and assert its privileges as asserted in the resolutions of last Session. He was, therefore, very happy in not feeling himself obliged to make a similar motion in respect of this individual as he had done in regard to others. At the same
482Lord J. Russell
 moved, that the Order of the Day for the further consideration of Messrs. Hansard's petition be now read.Lord John Russell
 believed that such a course was quite unusual. He had never heard of it being adopted on any other occasion. He begged to consider the hon. Gentleman's question further before he gave an answer to it.Lord John Russell
425 observed, that the right hon. and learned Gentleman had commenced his address to the House
425Lord John Russell
 then again moved, that the Order of the Day for the further consideration of Messrs. Hansard's petition be read.Lord John Russell
 replied, that he had at present no intention of proposing their removal to any other place,Lord John Russell
: Because, having heard that it was intended to apply for a habeas corpus, he wished them to remain under the authority of the House while that matter was pending.Lord John Russell
 then proceeded to say, that with respect to Thomas Barton Howard, the petition of the Messrs. Hansard stated him to be the attorney of Stockdale in this action; and the affidavit of the under-sheriff, as well as the petition, contained documents purporting to be signed by this Mr. Howard, as Stockdale's attorney. Now though, perhaps, this was sufficient, yet, to give Mr. Howard the opportunity of stating whether or not his name had been forged or improperly used, he thought it necessary to call that gentleman to the bar. He therefore now moved "that Thomas Burton Howard be called in."Lord John Russell
496llllll should be glad to comply with the right hon. Gentleman's request, if he knew of any mode by which he could satisfy him. The grounds upon which he meant to propose this vote did not appear to him to admit of any statement with regard to particular expenses. Such a course would be quite inconsistent with precedent, even if it were possible to pursue it. He found that, in submitting the Civil List of 1830, it was proposed that the sum to be voted for the privy purse of their Majesties King William and Queen Adelaide should be 110,000496llllllLord J. Russell
l had no objection that his statement should be made on Friday, and the House might come to a vote on Monday. But he begged it not to be understood that he considered the proposal was at all reasonable, or that he could have any plan or statement to make with regard to the establishment of Prince Albert, which would make it otherwise than a question with regard to the establishment of William and Adelaide, and as the establishment had been for the last half century. Any thing further back than that would give them very imperfect imformation. The precedent of the marriage of Prince George of Denmark would not furnish any information to the House. In answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman as to whether he meant to propose any sum for what he called an outfit, he did not intend to propose any such sum. He should only move for the grant of 50,000lLord John Russell
 intimated, that the hon. Member could not do so, as the Order of the Day had been moved.The Speaker
 said the hon. and learned Member was certainly out of order in imputing such motives to any hon. Members.The Speaker
 asked whether it was the intention of the noble Lord lo propose a vote for an outfit for the prince.Colonel Sibthorp
formâ pauperis490 could not give his vote without observing, that it seemed to him from the examination of the gentle-
formâ pauperis490Sir Edward Sugden
, who asked, had he any explanation to offer?—I humbly conceived that I was doing my duty towards Mr. Stockdale. If I had refrained from continuing the proceeding, he might have brought an action against me. If I have been mistaken as to the manner in which I thought myself compelled to proceed, and if I have thereby incurred the displeasure of the House, I deeply and most honestly regret it.Sir E. Sugden
430429Order order428427habeas corpus. rose to move as an amendment the addition of the words "to be forthwith discharged." He had hoped that a few hours' reflection would have induced the House to pause before they persisted in this course. He was not surprised at the seeming hesitation of the noble Lord to produce copies of the commitment, because the mode in which the case was conducted did not reflect the highest credit upon the proceedings of the House. The Attorney-general had stated, over and over again, if the order were made, the Sheriffs would have a good defence to present to the Court of Queen's Bench, in answer to the rule sought against them. That statement had considerable effect on the mind of the House. He had told the House not to rely upon that statement, and the event had proved that he was correct. He had also had occasion to state more than once what he believed to be the law, namely, that although upon the face of the commitment the cause for commitment was assigned, yet that no court of Westminster-hall would have power to grant a 430429Order order428427habeas corpus.Sir Edward Sugden
John Russell:John Russell: owned he could scarcely believe, that which was palpable to his sense in what was passing before the House. He could scarcely believe, that the noble Lord would refuse to place before them a copy of a warrant of commitment ordered by themselves. The noble Lord was exceedingly offended with an hon. Gentleman last night for calling him the prosecutor in this case. If, indeed, the noble Lord were not the prosecutor, he had, at all events, conducted the prosecution; and that any Member of the House, conducting a prosecution on the part of the House, should draw up a wan ant of commitment, and then refuse to show to the House the instrument—[Lord John Russell:John Russell:Sir Edward Sugden
 said, the sooner this question was brought to an end, the better for the dignity and character of the House. He should support the motion of the noble Lord, and oppose the amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman. As the noble Lord had taken upon himself the office of public prosecutor on this occasion, he hoped the noble Lord would take upon himself the merit of, perhaps, the only act of what the noble Lord would no doubt call lenity, but what he called justice, that had proceeded from that side of the House. He wished before he sat down to remark, that, though it might have appeared by his silent acquiescence during the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he disagreed with the judgment of the judges in this case, he now wished to say, most unequivocally and distinctly, that he held that judgment to be a sound, a learned, a just, and a constitutional judgment, and he trusted it would remain as a monument of the learning, the independence, and the integrity of the learned judges.Mr. Kelly
449***"It was proposed to proceed against the ministerial officer who was to be placed in this anomalous situation—that if he levied in conformity with the decision of the court, that House would commit him for a breach of its privileges; and if he obeyed that House, and did not levy, the Court of Queen's Bench would commit him for disobedience. It would be more consistent with the boldness of proceeding which had been recommended, if they held that the court and tribunal had been guilty of contempt, and to commit them if they persisted, instead of proceeding against the ministerial officer, who was bound to obey the orders and decisions of the court. It was a bad and dangerous example to set, to direct the Ministerial officer not to obey the law of the land. What was the course that the House had pursued? It submitted to the tribunal; the House had the power of stopping the proceedings at once, by telling the individual who was plaintiff in the cause, that he had no right to go to any other tribunal than that House, as it was the only judge of matters involving its privileges; and that, if he persisted, he would be committed. The House, however, allowed and instructed its officer to plead, and directed counsel to appear for him before the court. The Attorney-general appeared and argued the case for three days in the most able manner. They allowed the court to consider the case, and to believe that they submitted the matter to its decision, and that they were willing parties before it; and in confirmation of this view of the case, he would ask, how did the Attorney-general conclude his speech to the court? Why, in a manner to confirm such an opinion in the minds of the judges. The hon. and learned Gentleman concluded in these words: 'My Lords, for these reasons I pray judgment for the defendants.' It was proposed, however, that the officer who acted for the sheriff of London should be committed if he levied execution. Was this the proper step to take after the course the House had allowed to be pursued?"*448 must again say, most unwillingly, that he was not convinced by the arguments of his right hon. Friend, nor could he reconcile his right hon. Friend's speech with his speech on the same subject delivered on the 17th of June, 1839. His right hon Friend then said,—
449***"It was proposed to proceed against the ministerial officer who was to be placed in this anomalous situation—that if he levied in conformity with the decision of the court, that House would commit him for a breach of its privileges; and if he obeyed that House, and did not levy, the Court of Queen's Bench would commit him for disobedience. It would be more consistent with the boldness of proceeding which had been recommended, if they held that the court and tribunal had been guilty of contempt, and to commit them if they persisted, instead of proceeding against the ministerial officer, who was bound to obey the orders and decisions of the court. It was a bad and dangerous example to set, to direct the Ministerial officer not to obey the law of the land. What was the course that the House had pursued? It submitted to the tribunal; the House had the power of stopping the proceedings at once, by telling the individual who was plaintiff in the cause, that he had no right to go to any other tribunal than that House, as it was the only judge of matters involving its privileges; and that, if he persisted, he would be committed. The House, however, allowed and instructed its officer to plead, and directed counsel to appear for him before the court. The Attorney-general appeared and argued the case for three days in the most able manner. They allowed the court to consider the case, and to believe that they submitted the matter to its decision, and that they were willing parties before it; and in confirmation of this view of the case, he would ask, how did the Attorney-general conclude his speech to the court? Why, in a manner to confirm such an opinion in the minds of the judges. The hon. and learned Gentleman concluded in these words: 'My Lords, for these reasons I pray judgment for the defendants.' It was proposed, however, that the officer who acted for the sheriff of London should be committed if he levied execution. Was this the proper step to take after the course the House had allowed to be pursued?"*448Mr. Darby
495 wished to take that opportunity of asking the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) what course he intended to pursue when the House went into Committee of Supply in reference to the provision to be made for Prince Albert. He apprehended that that question would take precedence of all others whenever the House went into committee, and he thought it extremely desirable that the House should not come to any substantive vote upon it without a full knowledge of the circumstances which had induced the noble Lord to propose the specific sum that he deemed fit for the occasion. He presumed that the noble Lord would make a statement of the data upon which he founded his proposition, and that he would not call upon the House to give its decision upon the question until some subsequent period after that statement should have been made. He was sure that the noble Lord would give him credit for not making these observations with the view of throwing any impediment in the way of the settlement which it was necessary to make for the distinguished person who was most immediately interested in the matter. He was only anxious that any step that the House might take might be founded upon such
495Mr. Goulburn
 had been much misunderstood by the noble Lord, if he at all thought that he (Mr. Goulbourn) recommended having a committee on the present occasion. His view simply was this: that as the case of the consort of a Queen Regnant was one perfectly novel in this country, for which, therefore, there were none or few precedents to be found, and those not publicly promulgated, but only coming within the knowledge of the Government who had access to official documents, he thought it probably not unnecessary that in making a statement of the amount to be fixed for the establishment of Prince Albert, the House should have before them the fullest information that could be given, in order that they might be able to form a judgement of the reasonableness of the proposition submitted to them.Mr. Goulburn
485 expressed his perfect concurrence in the opinions of the noble Lord who had just sat down. The excuse of the attorney for violating their privileges was, that having been allowed to proceed to a certain extent, he was undecided between the duty which he owed to the House, and his duty to the courts of law. Now, in what different position were the sheriffs placed, respecting whom they had solemnly resolved that they were guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House, and whom in consequences they had committed? He confessed he could not draw a distinction, the only difference between the two cases being that the attorney had made a very equivocal apology. He thought the House should come to the resolution that the attorney was guilty of
485Mr. Warburton
 thought the Ministers should not have overlooked the gentlemen of the bar, and should not have selected the attorney as the object of their vengeance.Mr. Freshfield
434 said, he would stand between his hon. and learned Friend and the House but for a few moments. The Attorney-general had thought it necessary to disclaim any feeling of ill-will towards Mr. Howard. He (Mr. Freshfield) begged to make the same disclaimer. He never saw that gentleman till last night; but being of the same profession he should feel himself disgraced if he withdrew himself from the question at the present moment, or if he declined identifying himself with any principle involved in the conduct that gentleman had adopted. It appeared to him that this was a question upon which the House might well hesitate. According to precedent, it was usual to commit the plaintiff, the attorney, the counsel, and the judges. He could easily understand why, if they proposed to commit all the other parties, they should commit the attorney among the rest; but he did anxiously press upon the House the extreme danger of making the distinction which it was now attempted to be made, of not touching the judges, not touching the counsel, but of taking into custody the lower branch of the law—imagining, he supposed, that that branch could be attacked with more success, in fact, with impunity, because they had less power and less sympathy with the public. He anxiously implored the House to consider the consequence of placing a person in a
434Mr. Freshfield
 having expressed his regret, when this matter was first brought forward, that the parties originally implicated should be dealt with in the first place, he should support any motion of the nature which the noble Lord (Howick) suggested; and he was only sorry that he had not submitted one to the House. If the sheriffs were guilty, this man was more guilty. He begged the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) to re-consider what he was about. The stand which he had hitherto made, and the course which he had taken, were extremely right. If the noble Lord persisted in his present motion he would be giving up the ground which he had taken, and it would be impossible for the House to persevere in maintaining its privileges.Mr. Hume
pro re nata.473472 said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had spoken of the hon. and learned Member for Ripon as having wandered away from the question before the House; but he would put it to the House whether the hon. and learned Member was exposed to that remark. On the contrary, he had applied himself with great force and effect to the question whether they should call before the House the attorney of Mr. Stockdale. The learned Solicitor-general for Ireland had failed in answering one of the arguments of the hon. and learned Member. He had asked why the House should stop short here? He asked the same question, why did the House stop short? Why did it not attempt to grapple with the learned counsel who defended Mr. Stockdale, instead of dealing with the subordinate agent? Why did it not grapple with the judges? The argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Pigot) was, that there was an analogy between the proceedings of the House and of the Court of Chancery. The hon. and learned Member for Ripon had shown that there was not the slightest analogy between the two. The proceeding in the Court of Chancery was to issue her Majesty's writ of injunction, to prevent an action in a court of law. It had been said, that it was an act of cowardice to stop short now; but it was no act of courage to persevere in a cause which they were satisfied was wrong. On the contrary, true courage was shown in stopping short when you were satisfied you were in the wrong. Two things wrong never made one thing right. But he had been told
pro re nata.473472Mr. Sergeant Jackson
455"Coming events cast their shadows before;"454453 said, that with great deference to the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had last spoken, he had touched upon no arguments which had any very great bearing upon this subject. What the judges might do, or what they might be likely to do, in the case of Mr. Frost, could have very little to do with this motion, and he imagined, that it required all the ingenuity of the hon. and learned Gentleman to introduce that point in the observations which he had addressed to the House. The hon. Gentleman had proceeded at too rapid a gallop, for he said, that the question now before the House was that of committing Mr. Howard; but he begged to remind him, that that was not really the subject under discussion; but they were now inquiring, only whether that person should be called to the bar of that House. He said, that it did not follow as a necessary consequence that he would be committed; for circumstances might arise in reference to him which would render further inquiry necessary. He begged to say, that at this moment, after the long discussion which had taken place with respect to this original transaction, and its consequences, it was now too late to enter into a general argument. He had an opinion upon this subject, having been a Member of the committeee which had sat up stairs; but it was of little importance that he should now state what that opinion was. He had endeavoured to take a mitigated view of the question, and he lamented the necessity of adopting that course which he
455"Coming events cast their shadows before;"454453Mr. Bernal
452 said, that he would now endeavour to draw back the attention of the House to the subject which was really under discussion, because the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down had said nothing at all in allusion to the case. He conceived, that the House was in possession of the real facts as concerned Mr. Howard, to whose committal it was proposed that the House should now proceed; or at least they were considering the question upon a false assumption that that person was the attorney in the case from the commencement. Such, in reality, was not the fact; for, by Mr. Hansard's petition, it appeared, that the writ was sued out by Mr. Stockdale in person, and that it was only the subsequent proceedings which were carried on by Mr. Howard. The hon. and learned Attorney-general had argued the case as if the process had been sued out by Mr. Howard, and as if he had been the person who counselled the plaintiff to bring the suit; but that was not so, and the action having been once commenced he had no option but to proceed when called upon. He was the officer of the court, and was compelled to discharge the duties imposed upon him by his situation, and if the House were to come to the decision which was proposed, they would in effect declare, that no British subject should be entitled to profit by the advice of a professional man. Had they forgotten the memorable case of the Queen of England? Was it to be inquired by the counsel in that case, whether her Majesty had committed treason or not, before they gave her their advice? No such proposition could for one moment be maintained; and yet, according to the argument now employed, it was the duty of this attorney of the Court of Queen's Bench to inquire whether his client had committed a breach of the privileges of that House. The situation of attorneys and counsel would be the same; but the maintenance of the independence of the bar was necessary for the safety of the lives and of the liberties o her Majesty's subjects. The House could not interfere with the independence of the bar, without at the same time touching the power of the judges. The hon. and learned Attorney-general had declared his want of confidence in the five judges of the Court of Queen's Bench, and the same court had been spoken against by the Leader of the Liberal party, and by the
452Mr. Godson
 then moved, that there be laid before the House copies of the warrants of commitment of John Joseph Stockdale, and of William Evans, Esq., and John Wheelton, Esq.Mr. T. Duncombe
424"Whereas the House of Commons have this day adjudged that John Gale Jones, having written and caused to be printed a certain paper containing libellous matter reflecting upon the conduct of the House, and some of the Members thereof, has thereby been guilty of a high breach and contempt of the privileges of this House, and thereupon ordered that the said John Gale Jones be committed," &c.: It is most important that they should be produced, and if the noble Lord does not consent to produce them, I shall move for their production by way of amendment to the question now before the House. I understand that the warrants under which these parties have been committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-arms do not state on the face of them the offence of which the prisoners have been guilty. The House has voted, that they have been guilty of a breach of privilege, but upon the warrant under which they are committed the nature of the breach of privilege is not stated. I maintain that this is necessary, if the proceedings in this instance are to be consistent, and in conformity with the usual practice of Parliament. As precedent is everything, I beg to give an instance where the offence of the individual committed is stated in the warrant. I allude to the case of Gale Jones, who was committed by order of the House on the 21st February, 1810, and I will read the copy of the warrant under which he was so committed. The hon. Member read the warrant, which was in substance as follows:—
424"Whereas the House of Commons have this day adjudged that John Gale Jones, having written and caused to be printed a certain paper containing libellous matter reflecting upon the conduct of the House, and some of the Members thereof, has thereby been guilty of a high breach and contempt of the privileges of this House, and thereupon ordered that the said John Gale Jones be committed," &c.Mr. T. Duncombe
: Then I beg to move at once that copies of the warrants be brought before the House.Mr. T. Duncombe
 wished to inquire, whether the noble Lord would have any objection to lay on the table of the House copies of the warrants upon which Mr. Stockdale and the sheriffs had been committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-arms.Mr. T. Duncombe
439438I would.I dare not,us.""Great let me call him, for he conquered us."437436435 said, it was most painful to him on this occasion to vote against the opinion of his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-general, and against those who formed the greater part of the majority on this question, and in whose political opinions he was in the habit of concurring, but he felt that he should be wanting in his duty to his constituents and to the profession to which he belonged if he allowed a vote upon this most great and mighty question to pass without saying a few words. He had been deterred hitherto from taking any part in these debates, partly from the unaffected reluctance he always had to intrude him-himself on the indulgence of the House, and partly from feeling the justice of the complaint which had fallen from a noble Lord on the opposite side of the House, with respect to the technical habits of the profession to which he belonged being likely rather to embarrass than assist the judgment of others. But the question had now arrived at a point at which profess-
439438I would.I dare not,us.""Great let me call him, for he conquered us."437436435Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
486: Not a single step could be taken by the House with the hope of doing good unless they satisfied the public mind—that they could not inflict punishment on any party further than was absolutely and positively necessary to sustain the privileges which they deemed to be essential in conducting the business of the House. He feared the parties were not called to the bar in the best order. It appeared to him that the attorney should have been called as the second party, and after having heard his examination they would have been in a better position to deal with the sheriffs. Having heard from the witness an unequivocal expression of sorrow, he thought the commitments which had already taken place amply sufficient without inflicting punishment on any other party; and he was decidedly of opinion that if they were to proceed to confine Mr. Howard in the cell of that House, they would lose much of that high vantage ground on which they now stood. In the proceedings which took place there, and which were conducted judicially, if
486Mr. Wakley
 withdrew his motion.Mr. Blackstone
 observed, that as the House had dealt so leniently with the gentleman just called in, he begged to move, that John Joseph Stockdale be now called in and reprimanded by the Speaker and discharged.Mr. Blackstone
 maintained that the apology made was hypothetical. Nothing would satisfy him but an unconditional apology and a distinct reprimand.Mr. Ewart
Aula RegisAula Regis478Aula Regis.Aula Regis477fieri facias476De bon vouloir servir le Roi:475474 said, I trust the declaration of the hon. and learned Sergeant may be hailed as an augury of the favourable termination of these disputes. It is scarcely consistent, indeed, with the usual boldness of his bearing in the field of debate, that we should learn his opinion only in so late a stage; but it is better late than never; and coupled with the admissions which have been made by other hon. Members, it may be fairly taken as a proof, that in the
Aula RegisAula Regis478Aula Regis.Aula Regis477fieri facias476De bon vouloir servir le Roi:475474Sir Charles Grey
 wished to offer one word before this question was carried. The Speaker was about to call this attorney to the bar for the purpose of reprimanding him for a breach of privilege. If the whole course of their proceedings had reference only to this individual, he should admit, that the course about to be pursued was perfectly correct. But when he recollected that the sheriffs, on being called to the bar, made as nearly as possible the same apology as this man had done, and that instead of being reprimanded and admonished, as it was now proposed to reprimand and admonish this attorney, they had been committed to the custody of the sergeant-at-arms, and were now detained in durance, he could not help thinking that the House was involving itself in a very great inconsistency. Mr. France, too, had been completely acquitted; yet Mr. France stood in precisely the same situation towards the sheriffs, having been their legal adviser throughout the whole of the proceedings in the case, as Mr. Howard did to Mr. Stockdale. To dismis the one and reprimand the other, appeared to him to be a gross inconsisteney.Sir E. Knatchbull
 begged to ask a question of the noble Lord, in reference to the prisoners now in custody. Was it intended to detain them where they now were, or to remove them to some other place of confinement?Sir Edward Knatchbull
 wished to know why the noble Lord had come to that determination?Sir Edward Knatchbull
 could not think that the noble Lord would oppose the motion. All that they, the minority, now wished, was to see the legal instrument under which the majority had exercised the authority of the House.Sir Edward Knatchbull
 would be quite ready to furnish a return of the last week.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it was a matter of great inconvenience to have questions put to the Government in reference to trade, as it was calculated to create alarm in the minds of those interested, and therefore, as a general rule, he had a great objection to answer such questions. In the present instance, however, he had no objection to state, that from information he had received from the Chief Commissioner of Excise relative to the Scotch Malt Drawback, he should not this year be prepared to introduce a measure for the repeal it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
422 should be ready at all times to give the fullest
422The Chancellor of the Exchequer
Chair! thought the hon. Recorder ought to have exercised a little more patience before interrupting him. He rose to make a motion in accordance with what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, and he believed with the general assent of the House. He did not retract anything he had already said as to the responsibility of the attorney, and if Mr. Howard had expressed no sorrow and regret for what he had done, he should have had no hesitation in moving for his committal. He would now move—he he would move by way of amendment, though he had no doubt the course would be disagreeable to those who had done all in their power to lower the dignity of that House. [Chair!The Attorney-General
 rose to move an amendment, in compliance with the suggestion of his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell)The Attorney-General
 thought it strange that the noble Lord, who had carried all his previous motions so triumphantly, should be pressed by the "friends of freedom" to an act of greater severity than he was inclined to propose in this instance.Sir R. Inglis
487 maintained, in the first place, that the person mainly responsible to the House of Commons was the attorney. The adviser of the legal proceedings incurred a more direct responsibility than the plaintiff, because the latter might be presumed to be an unprofessional and ignorant man, labouring under a sense of injury, and appealing to the law for redress. It was the duty of the attorney, when consulted by an unprofessional man, prejudiced by the sense of the injury which he had sustained, to warn him against incurring the displeasure of the House of Commons by a perseverance in legal proceedings; and if he had abstained from doing so his responsibility was the greater, on the grounds which he had already stated. It appeared to him, then, that their proceedings would have been incomplete, unless the attorney had been called to the bar; but they had certainly made a mistake in not summoning the attorney to attend before the sheriffs. When the attorney was called, his expectation and full intention was that he should vote for his committal, unless he made an explanation perfectly satisfactory to the House. He had listened to the evidence of that gentleman, and he confessed he thought it equivocal. At the same time there was in it such an approach
487Sir R. Peel
 thought it would be desirable, that the House should know the result of the last week of the experiment of the fourpenny rate, as well as the result of the first week, because he was induced to believe, that the honeymoon of those experiments would not yield a very fair test of their average productiveness.Sir Robert Peel
 reminded the Chancellor of the Exchequer that he had promised to lay on the table of the House such information as he could relative to the late arrangement of the penny post. He wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman when it was likely that that information would be produced. He also wished to know, whether the result of the experiment of the fourpenny postage would be set forth, and whether the papers would contain the number of letters posted in London every day since the introduction of the penny system.Sir Robert Peel
capias ad satisfaciendumnulla bona447446445444ll443442441Talfourd:stare super vias antiquas;440 assured the hon. and learned Gentleman that it was not inconsistent with the sincere respect which he entertained for his character or talent, if he suggested to him that the more appropriate occasion for the speech which he had just delivered would have been on the night preceding the last, and immediately after he had made his speech. The question now being exclusively whether Thomas Howard should be called in, the hon. and learned Gentleman had taken this opportunity of answering a speech which had been made on a night when he himself was present listening to the debate, and when the debate did not conclude at an hour which precluded the House from listening to any answer; but two days afterwards the hon. and learned Gentleman made a speech, and inflicted on the House the painful task of listening again to him. For himself he deemed it consistent with the principles which he had ever professed, if he attempted to maintain for all the great institutions of the state the privileges which they possessed. The question here was whether the House of Commons was entitled to a privilege which he believed to be essential to the due performance of its functions; and he believed that he was adopting the true Conservative policy if, under the impression that the claim was well founded, he attempted to maintain those privileges. When had he shrunk from his duty when any attempt had been made by the House of Commons to encroach on the privileges of other bodies? When such attempts had been made upon the privileges of the House of Lords, or the privileges of the Crown, he had ever stood forward boldly to resist the attempts, That course he had pursued, that course he would continue, if he believed that any attempt were to be made to rob the House
capias ad satisfaciendumnulla bona447446445444ll443442441Talfourd:stare super vias antiquas;440Sir Robert Peel
† Ibid 359.**If a similar case occurred to-morrow, he would recommend that the House should deal with it without hesitation, and determine that, as a case involving its privileges, it should not be submitted to a court of judicature. In such a case there would be a proper exercise of the authority of the House of Commons when it committed for contempt."†450"What was the course the House had pursued? It submitted to the tribunal. The House had the power of stopping the proceed-
450v.v. said, that he would at once freely enter into an explanation of his conduct, if the House would accede to him the opportunity of doing so; and he thought that when he had done so the House would agree with him that there were some certain subjects upon which it was of importance that the country should be enlightened. The hon. and learned Member said that it was highly important that the country should be enlightened upon this subject. Why that was the main ground of his previous argument, and if it was necessary that a person in his position, honoured as he was by the confidence and support of a great body of Gentlemen, should declare his opinions in that House, it was still more desirable that they should be fully explained to the country at large. He was not there as the lukewarm advocate of the privileges of the House. All the vocabulary of abuse heaped upon the supporters of those privileges last night by the hon. and gallant Member for Donegal made little impression on his mind; and all he asked for now was permission to exercise the privilege of explaining his conduct, and he thought that he should convince his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Sussex, of the danger of making imperfect quotations. The hon. and learned Member said that he did not charge him with inconsistency; but even if he had done so, he begged to assure him that that would not have altered the feelings of friendship which he entertained for him. Now, he would proceed to the speech of June 17, 1839, and he wished every hon. Gentleman who should be similarly charged would be able to give such a refutation to the allegation made against him. In June, 1839, they were discussing what they should do in the case of "Stockdale † Ibid 359.**If a similar case occurred to-morrow, he would recommend that the House should deal with it without hesitation, and determine that, as a case involving its privileges, it should not be submitted to a court of judicature. In such a case there would be a proper exercise of the authority of the House of Commons when it committed for contempt."†450"What was the course the House had pursued? It submitted to the tribunal. The House had the power of stopping the proceed-
450v.v.Sir R. Peel
484483 did not rise to oppose the motion of his noble Friend, but at the same time, he could not sit and hear that
484483Viscount Howick
 moved for leave to bring in a Bill to ascertain and define the rights of voting for Members of Parliament in Scotland. He was aware that this was a subject of great importance, but it had been investigated by a committee of the House; and the Bill which he proposed to introduce was in a great measure founded on the recommendations of that committee. He trusted that it was not necessary to enter into any details, but that leave would be given to bring in the Bill that the provisions might be before the House.548The Lord
548
 said, that as the learned Lord moved the introduction of the measure, with the advice, no doubt, of her Majesty's Government, he would not object to the introduction that the provisions might be seen by the House and the country; but, at the same time, he could not allow the introduction of the Bill without entering his protest against any distinction being introduced between freeholders as a class in England and Scotland, and against introducing into Scotland any provisions incompatible with the Reform Act for the three countries, and against attempting to impose on freehold property, before it gave the right of voting, the necessary qualification of residence. The principle now proposed was not in the English Bill; it went far beyond the necessity of the case, and beyond the recommendation of the committee, the labours of which the learned Lord had used. For his own part he never would consent to make any distinction between the law of England and of Scotland.Lord Stanley
, appeared at the bar, and said, that last evening, about six o'clock, he had been served with a writ of habeas corpus from the Court of Queen's Bench, commanding him to bring up the bodies of William Evans, Esq., and John Wheelton, Esq., then in his custody. As he had acted by the warrant of the Speaker under the authority of that House, he conceived it his duty to lay this information before the House, with a view to receive their further directions.Sir William Gosset, Sergeant-at-Arms
 handed in the writ, which was read by the clerk.Sir William Gosset
 would not raise any objection to the introduction of the Bill by the hon. Member, but he should look with extreme closeness and care into any Bill which should go to disturb the uniformity which existed between England and Ireland in respect to legal rights and modes of legal proceedings.Mr. Pigot
 asked whether the grant was to be absolute, or during her Majesty's pleasure only?Mr. Goulhurn
550 inquired what indorsement was on the instrument.
550Mr. Law
 said, that having considered this point, it appeared to him that the old law in England need not be touched, unless the right of voting of freeholders had been attended with any evil, and when they were introducing a real representation into Scotland, where there had been none before, they might take the English law. At the same time, he thought that those who had the real right ought to vote. If he had found that gross abuses had been introduced into England—if he had found that the electors of York and of Middlesex were not bona fide freeholders—he would have thought that some restriction ought to have been introduced. That position it was for his noble Friend to make out; the Bill must not be supported because votes were given to persons who were not resident, but that the right had been abused.Lord John Russell
 said, that it was intended by her Majesty that the grant should be for life.Lord J. Russell
l.l.561l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.560l.l.l.559l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.558l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.557l.556555 then rose and said,
l.l.561l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.560l.l.l.559l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.558l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.557l.556555Lord John Russell
 said, it was not intended to have anything of the kind; but of course Prince Albert would have persons belonging to his household beyond what now constituted the establishment of her Majesty.Lord J. Russell
: I have to acquaint the House, that the Sergeant-at-Arms has a communication of the highest importance to make to this House.The Speaker
 thought that they would be asserting their own privileges, and in the most efficient manner, and at the same time paying a proper respect to the Judges, by not indulging in speculations as to what the decision of the court might be. If the House thought fit to make a return to the writ of habeas corpus, it was their duty without speculating as to the consequences to return the truth, and to consider any question that might arise afterwards. The judges would dispose of the case according to what they believed to be the law, and if the House considered their decision to be wrong, then would be the time to question it. He trusted, therefore, that he should hear no more speculation as to what would be done by the judges.Mr. Cresswell
 said, that if this Bill passed, no person could vote unless he had a house on the spot.Mr. Goulburn
 said, decidedly not. The Government, viewing the importance of the subject, had considered itself authorised to interfere merely to see that the best lines were selected.Mr. Labouchere
 was not aware that he could answer the right hon. Gentleman's question with perfect accuracy. He believed the matter stood thus:—There were two addresses in the course of the last session of Parliament—one for an inquiry into two lines of railway, which were in contemplation in the north of England, with a view to ascertain their respective merits—he meant the line leading from London towards Edinburgh and Glasgow —the other address referred to the lines contemplated towards Ireland. In consequence of these addresses to the Crown, in the course of last session, engineers were appointed to investigate those lines which had been surveyed, and he knew that the engineers were at present prosecuting the inquiry; and, he would add, with all convenient speed the result of those inquiries would be made public. When that commission was appointed, he believed express care was taken to guard against its being supposed that it was a general commission of engineers to inquire into all competing lines, or to inquire generally into the subject of railways. On the contrary, it was stated that the commission would merely apply to the lines already surveyed, and which might be supposed to have reference to the great lines of communication with the North, and with England.Mr. Labouchere
564v.563 moved for leave to introduce a Bill for the purpose of remedying a defect in the existing law relative to ejectment and replevin, which, though an inconvenience and a grievance in England, was, from the nature of the tenures peculiar to Ireland, a most serious obstacle to the course of justice in that country. The case was this, the ejectment and replevin statutes professed in their own provisions to be designed for the benefit of those alone between whom there subsisted the relationship of landlord and tenant; and, in order to constitute that relationship, it was indispensable that the lessor should have in himself a reversion of the lands on the extinction of the term demised to the lessee. He was anxious to avoid technicalities in the matter. If the landlord demised to the tenant the entire estate or interest which he himself held— if he gave him his lands for the same lives or the same number of years for which he held them himself—then the instrument became, not a lease or an under-lease, but an assignment in law; whilst, on the other hand, if he reserved to himself one day, one hour, or one minute, beyond the term enjoyed by his tenant it became a lease, and the relationship of landlord and tenant was created by it. In the latter case the landlord would be able, for the recovery of his lands, or of his rent, in case of its nonpayment, to avail himself of the short and simple process provided by the replevin and ejectment statutes, whilst in the other case he could have no remedy except by action for breach of covenant, or by bring-
564v.563Mr. Emerson Tennent
566v.565: The Bill which he had now to move for leave to bring in was substantially framed upon the principle and provisions of the Act for the amendment of the law in England, passed in 1833, and which embodied the recommendations of the commissioners appointed some years before, to inquire into the common law. That Act was so highly approved of in principle, that it passed both Houses of Parliament almost without alteration, and certainly without opposition, and in practice it had been found to realise all the advantages anticipated from it. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the Attorney-general, who introduced it in the Commons, pronounced it to be a bill which "would do more to simplify the law, and to render justice cheap, than any Act that had ever before been passed;" but when urged to extend it to Ireland by several Members, amongst others the learned Member for the county of Galway, it was found, independently of the fact, that some of its provisions being not altogether applicable, that it embodied regulations with regard to pleadings so different from the practice in
566v.565Mr. Emerson Tennent
562 wished to ask the noble Lord one question. The noble Lord had stated that the establishment of the late Prince of Wales was to be adopted as the pattern on which the establishment of Prince Albert Was to be placed, Now the Prince of Wales
562Mr. Hume
554 did not rise to oppose the motion of the learned Attorney-general, but he felt it his duty to state, that the learned Gentleman had not explained the real question which would come before the Queen's Bench on this return, which would be, whether or not an officer of that court could be interfered with, and be stopped in the discharge of his duties, by any power known to the constitution of this country; and it was yet to be decided, whether the court would not require the parties who had adopted such a course to come before them, and justify so serious an interruption of the course of justice. Let the House for a moment escape from the idea of this being a contest between it and the Queen's Bench, and consider it as a question whether, when one of the subjects of the realm had gained a legal verdict, and was about to receive the fruits of that verdict, the constitution would allow any single body of men to step in between those parties, and do away with the judgment of the court. He would not anticipate the arguments that would be used before the judges, nor would he venture to say that they would not remand the sheriffs; he would give no opinion on that point; but he hoped, that there would be no wish or intention to gain a triumph over the judges. Nothing could be more abhorrent from a well-regulated mind than the attempts which had been made by the Ministerial papers to throw ridicule upon the judges of the realm. He would particularly refer to a paragraph which had appeared in one of the morning journals this very day, describing the judges as "fifteen elderly Gentlemen, living in Bedford-square, and occupied principally in deciding how often thens and theres should be inserted in a special demurrer." If the returns were made as proposed by the Attorney-general, which appeared to
554Mr. Godson
 said, that to his own knowledge, many persons became freeholders who were not real residents; he knew that such things had occurred in the small counties of Wales. Now residence was required by the old law, and it should be their serious consideration, when deciding upon the law of voting, to attend to this old law. He thought, therefore, that the learned Lord was fully justified in the principle of this Bill.Mr. Ewart
bona fide said, that as the hon. Gentleman admitted that if abuses existed, they ought to be remedied, if there were no means of correcting those abuses and of preventing the swamping of the bona fideMr. Gillon
bona fide hoped that the noble Lord had heard the speech of the hon. Member, showing that the same things existed in Wales. If abuses existed they ought to be remedied, but by this Bill it was contrived to disfranchise the bona fideSir George Clerk
"That the Sergeant-at-Arms should be directed to make a return to the said writ, that he holds the bodies of the said William Evans and John Wheelton, Esqrs., by virtue of a warrant under the hand and seal of the Speaker, issued by the authority of the House of Commons, for contempt of a breach of the privileges of that House."553"Whether, if the Court of Common Pleas adjudged an act to be a contempt of court, and committed the offender by a warrant, stating generally, without those circumstances that led to a commitment—whether in that cause the Court of Queen's Bench would discharge the prisoner, because the particular facts out of which the contempt arose, were not set forth in the warrant.""That the law of Parliament was part of | the law of the land."552"The Court, as any other Court, had granted the writ of habeas corpus, not knowing what the commitment was; but now it appeared that it was for a contempt of their privileges. What these privileges were, the
552"It appeared, by the return to the writ of habeas corpus, that Murray had been committed to Newgate, under a warrant charging him with a high and dangerous contempt of the privileges of the House of Commons, and it was insisted at the bar that that was a bailable case, within the meaning of the Habeas Corpus Act. The answer to that was, that it had never been maintained that the act gave power to the judges to decide upon the privileges of the House of Commons, and it had been agreed upon all hands that they had power to judge of their own privileges. It need not appear to them what the contempt was for which he had been committed; for it did appear, they could not judge thereof. Lord Shaftesbury had been committed for a contempt of the House of Lords, and, being brought before the King's Bench on a writ of habeas corpus, the court must remand him, because in no case that had been cited had the court interfered. The House of Commons was superior to that court in that particular, and they could not, therefore, enter into that question."551 then rose and said, that the House would perceive that their Sergeant-at-Arms had acted in strict conformity with his duty. He had taken the earliest opportunity of informing the House, that he had been served with the writ of habeas corpus, and the question for the House to determine was, what steps should be taken under circumstances of such great importance. It was a crisis of great moment; they were struggling for the existence of their privileges, and any false step might involve them in inextricable difficulty. It might very possibly be contended, that though this writ had been served upon their Sergeant-at-Arms, it ought not to be obeyed. He would not then enter into any nice question of law in regard to the power of either House of Parliament to order its officer to disregard a writ of habeas corpus. He had no hesitation in advising the House to direct the Sergeant-at-Arms to return to the Court of Queen's Bench, that he held these two individuals in custody by the warrant of the Speaker. That was the safe, the dignified, and the constitutional course. Let it not be supposed that thereby they submitted their privileges to the judgment of a court of law. The Court could do nothing but simply remand the prisoners into the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms. But if there should be a departure from all established precedent and usage, and the Court should question the commitment, such an usurpation on the part of the Court, would give the House a decided advantage in the struggle, should it be continued. It had been determined by a long series of authorities, that this House had the power to commit for contempt, and that when it did so commit, no court of law whatever, had the power to inquire into the cause of the committal. In some instances the cause had been set out on the face of the warrant, and in those cases the Court had decided that they could not judge whether such cause was sufficient or insufficient. In other instances, the cause had not been set out, and then the judges had decided that the omission was immaterial, as they could not have reviewed the cause, had it been set out ever so distinctly. He would, for the information of the House, mention one or two cases in which that doctrine had been held. There was Lord Shaftesbury's ease, in
"That the Sergeant-at-Arms should be directed to make a return to the said writ, that he holds the bodies of the said William Evans and John Wheelton, Esqrs., by virtue of a warrant under the hand and seal of the Speaker, issued by the authority of the House of Commons, for contempt of a breach of the privileges of that House."553"Whether, if the Court of Common Pleas adjudged an act to be a contempt of court, and committed the offender by a warrant, stating generally, without those circumstances that led to a commitment—whether in that cause the Court of Queen's Bench would discharge the prisoner, because the particular facts out of which the contempt arose, were not set forth in the warrant.""That the law of Parliament was part of | the law of the land."552"The Court, as any other Court, had granted the writ of habeas corpus, not knowing what the commitment was; but now it appeared that it was for a contempt of their privileges. What these privileges were, the
552"It appeared, by the return to the writ of habeas corpus, that Murray had been committed to Newgate, under a warrant charging him with a high and dangerous contempt of the privileges of the House of Commons, and it was insisted at the bar that that was a bailable case, within the meaning of the Habeas Corpus Act. The answer to that was, that it had never been maintained that the act gave power to the judges to decide upon the privileges of the House of Commons, and it had been agreed upon all hands that they had power to judge of their own privileges. It need not appear to them what the contempt was for which he had been committed; for it did appear, they could not judge thereof. Lord Shaftesbury had been committed for a contempt of the House of Lords, and, being brought before the King's Bench on a writ of habeas corpus, the court must remand him, because in no case that had been cited had the court interfered. The House of Commons was superior to that court in that particular, and they could not, therefore, enter into that question."551The Attorney-General
habeas corpus said, that whatever others might have said, he had not meant the slightest disrespect to the Judges in anything he had said. He not only loved them as friends, but venerated them as most conscientious magistrates. He thought in this instance that they were in error, but he had never attributed to them anything like improper motives. As to the questions that might arise, he would say that none could possibly arise, if good cause of detention were shown. The writ of habeas corpusThe Attorney-General
 presumed that it was not intended to take these lines out of the hands of private companies for the purpose of having them executed by the Government.Sir R. Peel
 did not know to what member of her Majesty's Government he should address his question, not knowing what officer was connected with railways, or that branch of the public service. He wished to know whether there existed at present a commission of engineers for the purpose of reporting upon contested lines of railway in England; and if there were, what were the lines referred to that commission for its decision?Sir Robert Peel
596llll595l, seconded the motion. Under any other circumstances in the country, he should have considered it to be his duty to oppose such a lavish grant as that of 50,000596llll595lMr. William Williams
lll624ll was sure that, in opposing this grant, the hon. Member for Westminster was not animated with the same views which actuated those upon the other side. He would not himself now trespass upon the House, but that this was the first occasion on which he had ever voted for a larger sum in preference to a smaller. He wished now to give his reason for voting along with the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford. The precedents which had been objected to showed a particular line of conduct upon former occasions. The value of precedents was this—that it afforded evidence of what, from time to time, was necessary for the dignity of the person married to the monarch. In that way the precedent here cited was of value. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had in vain endeavoured to weaken that precedent, by talking of a voluntary grant. The revenues at the time were under the management of the Monarch principally—the revenue then was little more than 3,000,000lll624llMr. O'Connell
625 said, that he should not have taken part in this debate had it not been for the observations that had fallen from the hon. and learned Member fur the city of Dublin. He should have rested satisfied with merely giving his vote, but he plainly perceived, if he did not offer some explanation, he should afford a tacit consent to the imputations that had been thrown out by that hon. Member and the noble Lord opposite. The hon. Member for Westminster had thought it necessary to explain his vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, how greatly more, then, was he (Mr. Hamilton) called upon to explain why he (forming one of four Conservatives only) was found in that minority? He had not had the advantage of the hon. and learned Member in having long been known for his unshaken loyalty to the Throne—a loyalty not of recent date, he was bound to suppose, or in any way owing to his change of place in that House; but though the hon. and learned Member might have had the advantage of him in this respect,
625Mr. C. B. Hamilton
l.l.633 said, he had listened with attention to the argument in favour of this vote. He owned he could hear none. It was very difficult to discover any rule to guide one upon such matters. But after listening to the debate on both motions, the only principle he could collect was, either for a sum that they ought to vote which was actually necessary for the purpose, or to vote that which had been customary on similar occasions. It seemed to him that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had proposed that which met the actual exigencies of the case, while the Government had proposed that which had been usual in such cases in this country. Now, between these two, everything seemed to him arbitrary and capricious, and he did not see much difference in principle between the motion proposed by the Government
l.l.633Mr. Villiers
639 said, the object of the bill was to put the Irish corn laws on the same footing as those of England. At present the Irish wheat was so bad that it was deleterious to the health of the people, and it was simply proposed to permit the
639Mr. O'Connell
 had never heard a wish for a measure of this description expressed in any of the agricultural districts of Ireland, and he wondered that the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, who represented an agricultural county, had not stated the view of his constituents in regard to a bill in which they were so deeply interested. He should oppose the measure in every stage.Colonel Perceval
 as Member for an agricultural county, and as a friend to protection, found no difficulty in giving his assent to the present motion. He could not participate in the fears of the gallant Colonel that evil would arise from an assimilation of duties in the two countries.Mr. S. O'Brien,
647 was surprised, after all the professions of peace made on the other side, that the hon. and learned Sergeant should introduce a new element of discord into the question, namely, that the large towns should have the option of rejecting or accepting municipal institutions. He (Mr. O'Connell) could not help remembering, in connection with the anxiety manifested now by hon. Members opposite, as to the settlement of the corporation question, how little anxious were the party to which they belonged, to support corporations in this country, especially when the great
647Mr. M. J. O'Connell
 denied that the Clonmel petition against a municipal corporation for that borough, mentioned by the hon. and learned Member for Bandon, represented the opinions of the inhabitants of that borough, and corroborated the assertions of his hon. Friend the Member for Dundalk, as to the causes which led to the petition of last year from the town of Galway.Mr. Pigot
 moved for leave to bring in two bills—one to provide for the better regulation of municipal corporations in Royal burghs in Scotland; the other to provide for the better regulation of municipal corporations in parliamentary burghs not Royal burghs in Scotland.The Lord Advocate
 apprehended that lie should be obliged to oppose the measure of the right hon. Gentleman, which he thought would have an injurious effect upon the agricultural interests of Ireland. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had said on a former evening that it was much and anxiously wished for by the citizens of Dublin. He (Colonel Conolly) had been in Dublin previous to the meeting of Parliament, and he had observed no such wish or anxiety upon the subject. The fact was, that advantage was now taken of the bad season to bring in this measure, which, as far as he could learn, was uncalled for.Colonel Conolly
"And tempts by making rich, not making poor.""But Satan now is wiser than of yore,603llll, he was anxious not to give a silent vote on this question. He wished to express his full concurrence with what fell from his noble Friend, and to declare that he was willing to vote in accordance with the Address of the House for a liberal allowance to the Crown. He was ready to confess, that he believed the Government thought they had proposed a grant which was not too liberal, and which would not be regarded by the country as an extravagant one. While, on the one hand he was as desirous as any man to show his attachment to the Crown, on the other he felt compelled to have regard to the necessities of the people, and to take care not to vote away the public money with too liberal a hand, unless a case of necessity should be made out for extended gifts. It, therefore, appeared to him that the motion intended to be submitted by the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln was one which would put the grant at the proper amount. He thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer bad failed lo show that the larger sum of 50,000"And tempts by making rich, not making poor.""But Satan now is wiser than of yore,603llllMr. Liddell said
llstatusl598ad captandumllllllllllstatus597lll felt that as the House had already assured her Majesty, in answer to her gracious speech from the throne, that it would provide for such an establishment as might appear suitable to the rank of the Prince and the dignity of the Crown, the only question was, whether the proposition of the noble Lord was an adequate provision for the purpose proposed. The hon. Member for Kilkenny thought that it was too much, and had proposed to reduce it from 50,000llstatusl598ad captandumllllllllllstatus597lllLord Eliot
602l afterwards observed, that he had omitted to say, that if the Prince should be left the father of the sovereign and of a royal family, the case would be quite different, and that 50,000602lLord Eliot
, after the personal allusion that had been made to him, appealed even to hon. Gentlemen opposite, if any expression used by him could justify the attack made upon him. He distinctly declared he had given expression to no feeling which was not perfectly consistent with the most perfect loyalty.Lord Eliot
ll619l618lllllllll617lllllllll616 said: I am unable to agree with the proposition of the lion. and gallant Member opposite. I own that nothing I have heard in the debate has in the least convinced me, that it was not the duty of her Majesty's Ministers to bring down the proposition which I have made to the House, or that it is not equally their duty to take the sense of the Committee on the subject. Ii is no doubt the privilege and the prerogative of this House to decide on any such vote of money, to decide according as they shall think fit, with a view, not only to the dignity of royalty, but to the general interests of the Crown and the people. But that opinion, whatever it may be, cannot exonerate me from the performance of my duty, having formed a very strong opinion that the proposition which I have made is the one most consistent with those great objects. I have heard the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University
ll619l618lllllllll617lllllllll616Lord John Russell
: I hold in my hand a petition affecting the privileges of the House upon which I do not feel it necessary to make any comment. Having brought it up, I shall merely move that it be read.Lord John Russell
: The petition having been read, I shall simply move, "that Thomas Burton Howard be ordered to attend the House forthwith."Lord John Russell
"And I do hereby further certify and return, in obedience to the said writ, that the above is the cause of my taking and detaining in my custody, as in the said writ mentioned, the said William Evans, esquire, and John Wheelton, esquire, the bodies of which said William Evans, esquire, and John Wheelton, esquire, I have here ready, as in and by the said writ I am commanded.""To the Sergeant-at-Arms attending the House of Commons."(Signed) "CHARLES SHAW LEFEVRE, Speaker."Whereas the House of Commons have this day resolved, that William Evans, esquire, and John Wheelton, esquire, sheriffs of Middlesex, having been guilty of a contempt and breach of the Privileges of this House, be committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this House:—These are therefore to require you to take into your custody the bodies of the said William Evans and John Wheelton, and them safely to keep during the pleasure of this House; for which this shall be your sufficient warrant. Given under my hand the twenty-first day of January 1840."Mar tit, 21o die Januurii, 1840:637"I, the said Sir William Gosset, Knight, Serjeant-at-Arms of the House of Commons, in the writ hereunto annexed named, do hereby certify and return; in obedience to the said
637 informed the House that the Sergeant-at-Arms had a communication to make to the House."And I do hereby further certify and return, in obedience to the said writ, that the above is the cause of my taking and detaining in my custody, as in the said writ mentioned, the said William Evans, esquire, and John Wheelton, esquire, the bodies of which said William Evans, esquire, and John Wheelton, esquire, I have here ready, as in and by the said writ I am commanded.""To the Sergeant-at-Arms attending the House of Commons."(Signed) "CHARLES SHAW LEFEVRE, Speaker."Whereas the House of Commons have this day resolved, that William Evans, esquire, and John Wheelton, esquire, sheriffs of Middlesex, having been guilty of a contempt and breach of the Privileges of this House, be committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this House:—These are therefore to require you to take into your custody the bodies of the said William Evans and John Wheelton, and them safely to keep during the pleasure of this House; for which this shall be your sufficient warrant. Given under my hand the twenty-first day of January 1840."Mar tit, 21o die Januurii, 1840:637"I, the said Sir William Gosset, Knight, Serjeant-at-Arms of the House of Commons, in the writ hereunto annexed named, do hereby certify and return; in obedience to the said
637 The Speaker
l615, on the original question being again proposed, rose to move an amendment. The course which had been pursued by her Majesty's Ministers, he said, had imposed upon him a most ungracious and, at the same time, a most painful task. He, however, merely performed his duty; and although it might perhaps be alleged against him that he was the personal enemy of the Queen, he must deny the justice of any such accusation, and appeal to the years which he had spent in defence of his country and the rights of the Crown in his own vindication. He defied any one to say that he had ever been guilty of disrespect to her Majesty, or that any expression had ever escaped from his lips which was derogatory to the dignity of the Crown or anything connected with the throne. He had, however, a duty to perform, and, as one of the representatives of the people, he could not shrink from discharging that duty. He had been relieved by what had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and from his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge, from the necessity of entering into the details of the subject, and he could only say that such a
l615Colonel Sibthorp
 had always wished, for a just and fair measure of corporate reform in Ireland. But he felt bound to apprise the noble Lord, that if he expected any bill on that subject to pass Parliament, it should be of a different character front his former bills. The effect of those bills would have been to make all those bodies of one religion, and of one politics, exclusively of all others, and to throw a class of persons into them, who, as far as respectability was concerned, would be entitled to neither the patronage connected with them, nor the power to dispose of their funds.Mr. Litton
l611llllllll610l"It will be in the recollection of the House that, on the occasion of the reference of this subject to a committee up stairs in 1830–31, certain reductions were recommended on the salaries of the great officers of the Crown. They did not amount to any very considerable sum. I believe they amounted to 10,000lllll610lllll609lllllllllllll608 said, that as he had asked the noble Lord to allow some short interval to intervene between the announcement of the amount of this grant and its actual proposition for the adoption of the House, he considered himself bound to state the effect which that proposition had upon his mind, and to explain his reasons for the vote he should find himself compelled to give. The grant, he considered, which that House ought to make, should be measured by what, under the circumstances, would add to the dignity of the Crown, and so far he thought that the noble Lord had justly laid down the principle on which the House ought to proceed. The noble Lord had also laid down another principle in which he agreed—viz., that we could form no better measure, with regard to this question, than by looking at the amount which was given to the consort of the King in the preceding reign. A discussion of this nature was, of course, one in which they were precluded from going into all unnecessary details, such as those relating to the private expenses of the Royal Family. Such was the plan which had been followed on former occasions. In arranging the civil list with reference to Prince George, the Government of Queen Anne took into consideration that of King William and Queen Mary, and that arrangement was made without the sanction of Parliament, and within the walls of the palace itself. If they had now been called upon to provide a civil list, the question was, would they
l611llllllll610l"It will be in the recollection of the House that, on the occasion of the reference of this subject to a committee up stairs in 1830–31, certain reductions were recommended on the salaries of the great officers of the Crown. They did not amount to any very considerable sum. I believe they amounted to 10,000lllll610lllll609lllllllllllll608Mr. Goulburn
638 said, that he had already intimated his intention of bringing in a bill for the purpose of assimilating the law of Ire and to that of England respecting the importation of foreign flour. At present American flour imported into this country could not, even with the duty paid upon it, be imported into Ireland. The Bill he intended to introduce should be limited to the object of placing both countries upon the same footing. There was no reason why they should differ; he believed the -measure would meet with no opposition, and if it should, lie was at a loss to know upon what grounds. He would now merely move a resolution to the effect, that leave be given to. bring in a bill to repeal so much of the Act of the 9th of George 4th, c. 60, as prohibited the
638Mr. Labouchere
 observed, that by the bill he proposed, the Irish agriculturist would not be placed in a worse position than the English agriculturist. It put them both on the same footing, and he could assure the hon. and gallant Gentleman that he had received many communications shewing the necessity for such a bill.Mr. Labouchere
 considered that, the contemplated measure would be injurious to the agricultural interest. There was no complaint of the want of a bill of this kind, and he could not see upon what grounds it could be supported. This measure would also be highly injurious to the millers of Ireland. The millers were the most prosperous body of tradesmen at the present time, and a measure of this kind would strike at the root of that prosperity. The millers had invested a large capital in the trade, and had imported large quantities of grain, so that a bill like that which was proposed, unless compensation was given to them, would prove extremely ruinous. It was said that the object was to give cheap bread to the poorer classes; but those who knew anything of Ireland knew that the poor did not use flour, and he would say, that if they wanted cheap bread they ought to continue the mills. This measure he considered as the first step to the destruction of the agricultural interest; and on every occasion, therefore, he should oppose it.Mr. E. Tennent
 would oppose the bill, if it went to make the acceptance of corporations compulsory upon the people of the great towns in Ireland, especially upon the town of Belfast. In regard of this town, he would mention a fact which came within his own knowledge—namely, that, of the seven functions which it was the duty of every municipal corporation to perform, all of those that were nonexistent were performed by other bodies well, and without expense to the in-habitants.Mr. E. Tennent
 trusted that the propriety of purchasing Waterloo and Southward bridges would not come before the committee until the Government was prepared with the necessary funds.Mr. Herries
ll said, that on the occasion of the marriage of Prince Leopold to the Princess Charlotte, 30,000llMr. J. Jones
ll623ll wished to explain the reason why he voted first for 21,000ll623llMr. Leader
lllll594lllll593lllllllll592lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll591lllllllllllllllllllllll590lll"That to make the people dissatisfied with the Government, as this would do, was bad."589"If the Lords and Commons were alone called upon for a contribution of this nature, he would most clearly assent to it; but feeling for the people, who were already so borne down, he could not consent to increase their burdens, particularly upon the grounds proposed by the mover. The Royal Family were exempt from taxes, which others paid.""That such a proposition should have been submitted to Parliament, under the present circumstances of the country, was, to him, he confessed, no less a matter of regret than of astonishment.l"that certain tables, and other allowances had been lately suppressed, which had cost the public nearly as much as their additional allowances would do.""thought that the House should pause before they voted away such large sums of the public money, at a period of such pecuniary difficulty;"ll"The provision for the younger sons of the King was fixed at 12,000lllll588l587llaughterll586lllll585 said, he rose with pain to move the amendment of which he had given notice. It was a matter of great regret to him that her Majesty should have been advised to come forward at this time to demand any establishment, or any grant of money for Prince Albert. He said any, because, from the tenor of the paragraph which had just been read, he was induced to suppose that some separate establishment was to be maintained. If so, he could not think it possible that the noble Lord and his colleagues, and all those who voted with him against any increase of allowance to the Duke of Sussex last Session, could act
lllll594lllll593lllllllll592lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll591lllllllllllllllllllllll590lll"That to make the people dissatisfied with the Government, as this would do, was bad."589"If the Lords and Commons were alone called upon for a contribution of this nature, he would most clearly assent to it; but feeling for the people, who were already so borne down, he could not consent to increase their burdens, particularly upon the grounds proposed by the mover. The Royal Family were exempt from taxes, which others paid.""That such a proposition should have been submitted to Parliament, under the present circumstances of the country, was, to him, he confessed, no less a matter of regret than of astonishment.l"that certain tables, and other allowances had been lately suppressed, which had cost the public nearly as much as their additional allowances would do.""thought that the House should pause before they voted away such large sums of the public money, at a period of such pecuniary difficulty;"ll"The provision for the younger sons of the King was fixed at 12,000lllll588l587llaughterll586lllll585Mr. Hume
646 did not rise to oppose the motion of the noble Lord, but to express his satisfaction that the most objectionable parts of the former Bills for reforming the municipal corporations of Ireland had been relinquished in the present measure. He was glad that the noble Lord had excluded all fiscal clauses from his bill, and also that the new qualification would not be pressed forward. But he felt bound to submit to the consideration of the noble Lord whether it would not be more expedient not to make the reception of the corporations imperative on the larger towns than in schedule A., but that they should have the option of refusing them if they saw fit. He (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) believed that the people of Ireland generally, notwithstanding all that was said to the contrary, were not now, and, indeed, never were, very anxious for corporations; and in this belief he was borne out by the facts that last Session a petition had been presented to the House of Lords from Galway against its incorporation which was attended to by that House; that a petition was in course of signature in Belfast to the same effect; and that, according to accounts which he had received within the last two days, there was another of the same tenor in progress in the Borough of Clonmell, which would be signed by all religious denominations. A strong feeling on the
646Mr. Sergeant Jackson
l.l,l.,.,d.l.,641l.d. said, that from the experience his constituents had had of the proceedings of other committees of a similar nature to the one moved for by the worthy alderman, they would look on the present motion with very considerable alarm, dreading the imposition of an additional tax on coals entering the port of London, for the purpose of carrying into effect the contemplated improvements in the metropolis. It was well known that the 8l.l,l.,.,d.l.,641l.d.Mr. Bell
 in moving for a select committee on Improvements in the Metropolis, suggested that the attention of the committee should be directed to the embanking of the Thames from Staines-bridge to Graves-end. It was also proposed to consider the propriety of purchasing the interest of the proprietors in Waterloo and Southwark-bridges, in order to throw them open to the public. These and other improvements ought, in his opinion, to be taken into consideration, and a report made to the House in regard to them. The hon. Member concluded by moving for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into the objects he had mentioned.Sir M. Wood,
 was very unwilling to intrude himself upon the House at that time, but as his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny had said, he had been instructed by his constituents to oppose the larger grant, he thought it right to say, that he believed nothing would be more agreeable to his constituents than that he should support the grant, and if, as he believed, from what he had heard of the prince's character and acquirements, a considerable portion of it was likely to be applied to promote the literary and scientific institutions of the country, he could not conceive a sum of money more advantageously expended, or more for the benefit of the country.Mr. Hutton
llllll admitted that there was some difficulty in saying what precise amount would be granted under the circumstances, but he believed it was pretty generally felt, that a grant of 50,000llllllMr. R. Palmer
 denied, that the town of Galway had petitioned against a municipal corporation because it was adverse to the establishment of such an institution; it was, on the contrary, solely because the inhabitants had an objection to the boundaries laid down for their borough in the bill.Mr. Redington
l.632 begged to be allowed to say a word in explana-
l.632The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l601lll600llllllllll599l was understood to state, that before he proceeded to allude to the speech of the noble Lord, he would advert to one or two points that had been dwelt on by his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny. His hon. Friend slid, that he never heard of an instance of a grant being made to the consort of a Queen regnant in this country. His hon. Friend, however, overlooked the grant made to the consort of Queen Anne of 50,000l601lll600llllllllll599lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
640 was somewhat surprised at the way in which the hon. Baronet had worded the motion which he had just submitted to the House. He had thought that it was only proposed to renew the old committee, and he had
640The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. begged to remind the Lord Advocate of the opinion of the commissioners in 1833, appointed to establish corporations in Scotland, that where there existed only a few inhabitant 10l.Sir George Clerk
ll605lllllmaximumlllll604, that it was evident that a very strong feeling prevailed on this subject, on both sides of the House; therefore he thought it incumbent upon every
ll605lllllmaximumlllll604Mr. Ward said
622lllllHumell621llllstatusllll620 had, he said, contended for some time past with the noble Lord upon the privileges of that House; but he now rose, he had almost said with feelings of indignation, because a minister of the Crown should make an insinuation, for the noble Lord dared not directly to make the charge, that in the vote which they were about to give for a smaller sum—that a minister of the Crown should insinuate that such a vote was influenced by their want of respect for the Sovereign. The noble Lord—for he had marked him well—had measured his expressions—he avoided stating that distinctly; but he appealed to the committee whether the insinuation could be misunderstood. He rose, then to repel that insinuation so conveyed by the noble Lord. The noble Lord had, he repeated it, distinctly conveyed the insinuation that a vote for the smaller sum would be inconsistent with the respect that was due to their Sovereign. He, then, for one repudiated any such insinuation. He felt towards her Majesty the respect which, as a loyal subject, he owed to her, but feeling that respect, he
622lllllHumell621llllstatusllll620Sir J. Graham
650l.;l. said, that on a former occasion it was a subject of controversy, whether, on account of the difficulty of finding a sufficient number of 10650l.;l.Sir J. Graham
 said, he should not have risen but for the observations of the noble Lord respecting the monopoly, corruption, and sectarianism of the Irish corporations. As regarded the first, it was a question of law; the second had been admitted, and he should waive it; but as to the third, he maintained, that these bodies were established for a certain purpose, and that they only performed the functions which had been assigned them—the support of the Protestant religion in Ireland.Sir R. Inglis
l607llllll606 could not agree with the view taken of the question by the hon. Member for Durham, and as he was unable to join him in opposition to the motion, he would briefly state the grounds of his vote. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said, that he would not enter into the details of the expenses which might be incurred in charities or acts of benevolence, or what might be the additional expense incurred by her Majesty's union with Prince Albert. In this he fully agreed with the right hon. Gentleman; for he thought it hardly fair to the Sovereign, that any such details should be gone into, after the money had been voted in the civil list. The argument
l607llllll606Sir R. H. Inglis
 had imagined, from the notice which the hon. Baronet had put upon the paper, that he had merely intended to move for the renewal of the old committee, and he was somewhat surprised to find that such extensive schemes were to be brought under their consideration without a more distinct notice that such was the intention of the hon. Baronet. There was, he feared, no fund to accomplish such expensive undertakings, and he would, therefore, beg to direct the attention of Ministers to the proposals which had been made.Sir Robert Inglis
 moved, by way of amendment, that the petition of Messrs. Hansard contained no allegation, that the action was brought against them as printers to the House, and that in the absence of any such allegation it is not fitting for the House to take any further steps in this matter.Sir R. Inglis
 contended, that if the House were to act upon such a petition, it would act as a general prohibition on the part of the House against Mr. Stockdale's bringing any action whatever against the Messrs. Hansard. There was not one word in the petition, from the beginning to the end, that in any way connected the matter with the privileges of the House. He for one, therefore, solemnly protested against any interference on the pan of the House.Sir R. Inglis
 considered the plan of embankment proposed by the hon. Baronet as somewhat gigantic, yet he thought it was a matter worthy of consideration whether some embankment was not necessary in consequence of the projection into the river made by the foundation of the new houses of Parliament. That projection caused a much more extensive deposit below Westminster-bridge than formerly, which was highly injurious to the health and comforts of the inhabitants upon the banks of the river. The embankment had narrowed the stream, and he could say, from his own experience, that the deposit which was now left was most offensive. He considered the proposals of the hon. Baronet as too comprehensive, but he thought it was deserving of consideration whether some embankment was not rendered necessary below Westminster-bridge, in consequence of the projection into the river to which he had alluded.Sir Robert Peel
l.l.631llllll630The Chancellor of the Exchequerlllll629llllllllllll628lllllll627l626 said, he never would shrink from giving his vote upon this, or upon any other occasion; but he did not know that he should have risen to address the House, if it were not for the insinuation of the noble Lord—an insinuation introduced so unnecessarily, so unjustly, and go contrary to all parliamentary rules
l.l.631llllll630The Chancellor of the Exchequerlllll629llllllllllll628lllllll627l626Sir Robert Peel
649648: I do not rise to prolong this discussion, but merely to say, in answer to the conciliatory speech of the noble Lord, that I shall undertake, in respect to this subject, to adhere to every declaration I have formerly made on it, and that I shall reserve all further concessions until I shall have duly considered the provisions of these bills. I hope these bills will settle the long-pending and much-vexed question as to municipal corporations in Ireland. I shall stand by the concessions I have made and the declarations I have given, as I stated, because I think restriction would be a disadvantage at this moment. But I cannot help think-
649648Sir R. Peel
582 conceived, that the objection of the hon. Baronet would have been perfectly well-founded, if his noble Friend had proposed, that the House should at once proceed to commit Mr. Howard to custody. But as he understood the motion, that was not the object of it. The motion was, that Mr. Howard be ordered to attend that House forthwith, and, as he conceived, the plain and simple object of the motion was to ascertain from Mr. Howard himself, whether, as they had every reason to believe, the present action was similar to those which he had pre-
582Viscount Howick
645l.l.644l.643642 rose to move for leave to bring in the sixth bill on the subject of Irish municipal corporations. He felt he could not claim for the subject the attraction of novelty. Besides which the question, after all that had passed in the progress of its discussion, and after all that had been conceded on both sides of the House, now came to be scarcely one of principle between any material section of the House, but rather one of particulars and of details. Under these circumstances, he dirt not feel called upon to trespass at any length on their attention, but would only shortly advert to the character of the present measure in so far as it differed from or agreed with the bill of last Session. At the close of the last Session of Parliament, when the bill was sent back to them from the Upper House, with a very considerable number of what, after usual courtesy, must be called amendments, though they were of the same nature and pretty nearly of the same extent as those which in previous years had caused the rejection of the Bill by the House of Commons, yet the Government did think it its duty to take the opinion of its usual adherents, and particularly the opinion of the Members representing that country most affected by the measure. And it did seem to be the prevailing feeling, that the time had at length come for bringing this long-agitated matter to something like a settlement; and when in the course of the discussion which had taken place both the great parties obviously had receded from
645l.l.644l.643642 Viscount Morpeth
655"When he considered the situation in which we stood—when he considered the various and complicated interests which we had to protect—when he considered the peculiar nature of our financial position, and found his noble Friend proposing to leave the whole agricultural interest without protection, he must declare before God that he thought it the wildest and maddest scheme that had ever entered into the mind of man to conceive."654ll653652651 said, that when he considered the importance of the motion which he was about to introduce to the House, he was afraid, that he, who seldom took part in their debates, might be found guilty of some presumption in rising to claim their attention. He wished that it had devolved upon some more competent person to bring forward this motion, but he hoped that he might be treated with kindness and indulgence by the House, while he laid before them some two or three reasons which had led him to bring forward this motion in the discharge of his duty to his constituents. In submitting these reasons to their notice, he would trespass for as short a period as possible upon the attention of the House. That there was much disturbance and dissatisfaction throughout England was but too notorious. In ordinary times it might be, that that distress and that dissatisfaction might arise from causes over which the Government had no control, and could therefore not be considered responsible; but no one now could help attributing this disturbance to the system which had been pursued by her Majesty's Ministers during the last two years—that system of agitation which they had nurtured and fostered for the sake of carrying their measures, pressing them upon the country, and exciting masses of the people for their own purposes. He was afraid, that that dis-
655"When he considered the situation in which we stood—when he considered the various and complicated interests which we had to protect—when he considered the peculiar nature of our financial position, and found his noble Friend proposing to leave the whole agricultural interest without protection, he must declare before God that he thought it the wildest and maddest scheme that had ever entered into the mind of man to conceive."654ll653652651Sir. J. Y. Buller
719G. Grey718717716715714713712711710l.l.l.l.l.709708707706705 said, that his hen. Friend who had just sat down was rather a dangerous supporter of her Majesty's Government, He had fixed on one topic as a subject for praise which was somewhat remarkable. He had said that the interests of our commerce required a steady Government. Could he claim the credit of a steady Government for the right hon. Gentlemen and noble Lords opposite, of whom there was scarcely one principle, from that memorable one on which they got into office, down to their colonial and foreign policy, which had not undergone changes the most remarkable? His hon. Friend had attempted to show improvements in the trade and commerce of the country, but he was prepared to show that these great interests had declined under the administration of our Foreign Affairs by the noble Lord now at the head of the Foreign Department. His hon. Friend seemed to be afraid that he would introduce religious questions; but he would carefully abstain from doing so, and con-
719G. Grey718717716715714713712711710l.l.l.l.l.709708707706705Mr. Colquhoun
731730729728Hear, hear727726 did sincerely believe that neither of the great parties into which that House was divided was influenced at all in the present struggle by any such miserable considerations as a participation in the
731730729728Hear, hear727726Mr. D'Israeli
: Sir, I rise to order. I wish to ask you whether the right hon. Baronet is justified in calling Mr. Oastler "the incendiary Oastler?"Mr. W. Duncombe
691690 had no wish to occupy the attention of the House at that period of the debate, but after some of the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, he should consider that he was not discharging his duty if he did not offer some comment on the statement which the House had just heard. The right hon. Baronet had alluded to the late lamentable events in Monmouthshire in a tone which utterly
691690Lord Granville Somerset
694693692: Would the noble Lord consent to produce the communication which had been sent to him in the first instance? But was the lord-lieutenant made acquainted with the charges which had been brought against Mr. Frost? And did he, after a communication on the subject with the noble Lord, sanction his appointment to the magistracy? If the Lord-lieutenant did so, the gentleman who had made the charge was ready to come to the bar and make good the statement that he had made to the noble Lord on this subject; at any rate, the letter which the gentleman had written to the noble Lord on this subject was in his possession, and he trusted he would not hesitate to produce it. But he believed the noble Lord was fully aware of these proceedings, for a late honourable Friend of his had brought the subject before the House, and Mr. Frost was not dismissed from the magistracy until after that period, and
694693692Lord Granville Somerset
 observed across the table that he had communicated with the lord-lieutenant of the county on the subject.Lord John Russell
l was understood to express his confidence in a ministry which, within a few years, had reduced the taxation of the country by 4,000,000lMr Andrew White
696695 said, it had been laid down that a great country cannot carry on a little war; but after the debate he had heard that night, he was sure that a great party could carry on a very great war with very little speeches; for of all the speeches he had ever heard delivered on so important an occasion as the attempt to change the policy of the Government of a great country, he had never heard any made up of such slight materials, or, especially in the case of the last speech, of matter so irrelevant to the subject. The noble Lord had not said a single word on the general policy of the Government. This was a debate of the very highest importance to the empire. It was an appeal, not to parties in that House, but to the people out of doors, and no party, he fully believed, ever made that appeal with more just confidence than did the Liberal party on this occasion. It was incumbent upon the party on the opposite benches now to express openly, honestly, and distinctly, what were their opinions their principles, and their views, and he
696695Mr. Hawes
725724723722R. Peel721Oh, oh720 commenced by saying "Behold! what a blessed thing it is to brethren to dwell together in unity." The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was so far from disapproving of the recent appointments, that he appeared to approve of them. He was sure, that there must be a perfect unanimity amongst the hon. Gentleman's party, but still he doubted that the sentiment thus expressed must be universal on the other side of the House. But he took the unanimity to be that which it had been represented. The hon. Gentleman had spoken of great political bodies being driven forward by their tails, and whether the present motion emanated from the head of the concern, or had been driven forward by the agitation of a less noble organ, might admit of considerable doubt. He was not surprised at the introduction of this motion, because he had before remarked, that there was a great lashing of the tail, and the whole of that lashing had reference to one particular object. There had been one prevailing subject for the consideration of her Majesty's Government, and that subject was a religious subject. What! was that subject to be tabooed in that House? Was no other Gentleman except himself surprised that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down should have addressed them in a speech of an hour's length, and yet not have introduced "religion "or" education," nor allowed them to form a single part in his address. He believed, that in the recess the hon. Gentleman had been in the habit of addressing large bodies of the people. He knew that he was in the habit of seeing in the newspapers the name of the hon. Gentleman, followed by speeches to large bodies and public assemblies, but did the hon.
725724723722R. Peel721Oh, oh720Mr. Gisborne
736735"Whilst a kind look at her pursuer flies, How much at variance are her feet and eyes!"734733 had heard nothing that night which justified the present motion, which had been brought forward with such a formidable array of opposition. He would not refer to the unhappy events which had taken place in some parts of the country, except to express his regret that they should have been made the theme of party animosity; nor should he say any thing in reference to those baccanalian exhibitions which certain parties had indulged in. He should be contented in the first place with laying down the principles which he considered to be connected with the vital interests of the country; and in the second place, with inquiring which of the several great parties in that House were most likely to carry those principles into effect. He humbly ventured to think that the prosperity and safely of the country were mainly based on these two great principles;—first, freedom of trade; and, secondly, national education. Upon these great principles, political speaking, he based his faith; and to the ulterior consequences of those principles, duly carried out, he looked for the happiness and security of the nation. Freedom of trade—whether applied to develop the gigantic enterprise of commerce or the minute manufacture of the needle—
736735"Whilst a kind look at her pursuer flies, How much at variance are her feet and eyes!"734733Mr. Ewart
: I beg, Sir, to be allowed to explain. I made no observation that the Government was slack in the administration of the law. What I said was, that there was a disposition to designate things by wrong names.Mr. Alderman Thompson
"Unquestionably, the worst Ministry was that which did not possess sufficient of the confidence of Parliament and the country to carry those measures they thought necessary for the well-being of the country."665664ll663662661llll660"The Queen has been pleased to command me to express her Majesty's high approval of year conduct, and of the conduct of the magistrates acting with you, on the occasion of the outrages recently committed in the town of Newport."659658Laughter.657 rose to second the motion. He would premise his observations by offering his sincere thanks to the hon. Baronet for adopting a course of proceeding by which the country would be able to ascertain to what extent, and in what degree, her Majesty's Ministers possessed the confidence of the House of Commons. He knew not of any period, at least in modern times, when the necessity was more urgent upon an independent Member of Parliament to adopt such a course; for when he considered the state of the general mass of the labouring population, when he considered the financial condition of the country, when he considered the state of several of its more important colonial possessions, as also the state of its foreign trade and navigation, he found that there was cause of alarm and apprehension for the constitution of the country and for the honour and prosperity of the nation. His hon. Friend had alluded in his admirable speech to the general state of the population. His hon. Friend had made reference to that district where the outrages had been the most calamitous—a district with which he was personally connected—he meant the district of South Wales. He hoped, therefore, that he should be excused for making a few observations on the nature and character of those outrages, as he had had the opportunity of observing them personally himself. It was not an uncommon event in the history of England to witness tumultuous meetings and riotous out-breakings and violent breaches of the peace on the part of the population; but hitherto, those unfortunate events had happened when some great branch of our staple manufactures was in a state of depression, and when great bodies of workmen were thrown out of employment, and were consequently involved in great wretchedness. At other times there had been great scarcity and dearness of provisions. But none of these circumstances were present now. There was a peculiarity in the recent outrages in South Wales which must forcibly strike upon the minds of all. Instead of there being a want of employment in that district, he could say from his own knowledge that the demand for labour exceeded the supply, and that wages were at a rate unusually high. To what cause, then, was the recent outbreaking owing? He had no hesitation in declaring that it was for political purposes
"Unquestionably, the worst Ministry was that which did not possess sufficient of the confidence of Parliament and the country to carry those measures they thought necessary for the well-being of the country."665664ll663662661llll660"The Queen has been pleased to command me to express her Majesty's high approval of year conduct, and of the conduct of the magistrates acting with you, on the occasion of the outrages recently committed in the town of Newport."659658Laughter.657Alderman Thompson
669Cheers.668667 in rising to oppose a direct negative to the motion just read from the chair, it will be my gratifying duty, in the first instance to express my heartfelt and cordial concurrence in one sentiment which has fallen from the worthy Alderman who seconded the motion. The worthy Alderman expressed his satisfaction—a satisfaction in which I cordially concur in common, I am sure, with my hon. Friends whom I see around me, that this motion has been submitted to the House, f sincerely rejoice, that hon. Gentlemen opposite have at last mustered courage sufficient to abandon the course of policy which they have pursued during the last five years and to substitute for a perpetual warfare of detail—for a perpetual obstruction of the measures which her Majesty's Government in discharge of its duty has submitted to Parliament, accompanied by a somewhat vain-glorious boast at the close of each Session over the nullity of the deliberations of Parliament—to substitute for a series of attacks upon individual branches of the administration and detached questions of policy—the more manly, open, and decided course of bringing under review the whole policy of the Government, legislative and administrative, and of asking the representatives of the nation for their verdict, aye or no, whether the present Government, looking at the general policy which it has pursued, does or does not possess the confidence of this House. I rejoice that this question has at last been fairly submitted to the decision of the House of Commons. The question involved in the present motion in fact, is, whether the House is prepared to transfer its confidence from her Majesty's present Government to hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side. The principal difficulty, I confess, in dealing with this motion consists in the absence of anything to grapple with. I look in vain to the speeches of the hon. Baronet, or of the worthy Alderman, for any charges which can afford ground for such a motion, which has been justly described as one of an important and momentous character. I look in vain in those speeches for any topic, with one single exception, to which I shall presently refer, which might not have been brought forward as the justification for such a motion at any period during the last fire years, as well as at the present time, I confess I had expected to have heard the hon. Baronet bring forward such alarming descriptions of the state of the country.
669Cheers.668667Sir G. Grey
689688687686***"This is a striking illustration of a statement made by anticipation by my noble Friend the noble Duke below, when he asked at a former period"—that was when the Reform Bill was under discussion—" with reference to a House of Commons composed as the present is, 'How is the King's Government to be carried on?' The anticipation of the noble Duke has been amply verified by the result, for so long as the House of Commons continues to be a House of Commons, or the form of the representation of the country what it is, the Queen's Government cannot be carried on; and it is not until it ceases to assume that shape, that anything like legislation can be conducted through the House by her Majesty's Ministers."*685684Times683682681R. PeelWhy, it would be what Shakspeare called All the world to nothing.' He begged to say that on the call of the constituency, he could not refuse to help them to get a cheap loaf."'Was ever woman in this humour won?''Was ever woman in this humour woo'd?"But the most important subject of all was undoubtedly the Corn-laws, and he had found in the progress of his canvass, that his opponents had endeavoured to injure him with the electors, by misrepresenting his opinions on that subject. It had been said, that he had come here prepared only to look after his own interest as a landed proprietor; he certainly thought such a mode of opposition was not creditable to those who had set it up. This much he could say—it was far from the truth; for whatever might be his individual interests, he was prepared to sacrifice them if he found they were opposed to the general good. He had gone into houses where he had seen swarms of children, and the mother had anxiously asked him how she could feed them? That the father toiled from morning till night, but could not sufficiently supply their wants. He had found this in a great many instances, and if he had any previous indisposition to the modification of the Corn-laws, such a state of feeling would remove it. Why it would be useless for him to attempt to contest the borough under such a stale of things, and if he won it, it would be like Richard won Lady Anne—680679678677676675674673672Thompson.671: I was coming to that; that was another charge. I was quite aware that one ground on which the worthy Alderman asked the House to withdraw its confidence from the Government was, that Lord Normanby had designated as an "outbreak," what the worthy Alderman thinks should at once have been termed "treason." But I ask whether it would have been decent, whether it would have been just towards the prisoners about to be placed upon their trial, if the Secretary of State had, in a public letter, prejudged their case, and stamped their offence as treason? Is not the worthy Alderman aware of the long and patient investigation which, on the subsequent trial of the prisoners, took place into the character of their crime, and that grave doubts were suggested as to its treasonable nature? Would the hon. Member for Huntingdon and Ipswich, who so ably defended the prisoners at Monmouth, concur with the worthy Alderman in censuring Lord Normanby for the course which he took in this instance? Would they not justly have complained, if he had acted according to the opinion of the worthy Alderman? But, Sir, the hon. Gentleman, in connection with this subject, has complained that Front, who has now been convicted of treason by a jury of his countrymen, should have been appointed by my noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) to the office of magistrate in the borough of Newport. A great deal has been said upon this subject out of the House, and it now forms one of the counts of the indictment against the Government. The charge is simply this, that my noble Friend several years ago, soon after the passing of the English Municipal
689688687686***"This is a striking illustration of a statement made by anticipation by my noble Friend the noble Duke below, when he asked at a former period"—that was when the Reform Bill was under discussion—" with reference to a House of Commons composed as the present is, 'How is the King's Government to be carried on?' The anticipation of the noble Duke has been amply verified by the result, for so long as the House of Commons continues to be a House of Commons, or the form of the representation of the country what it is, the Queen's Government cannot be carried on; and it is not until it ceases to assume that shape, that anything like legislation can be conducted through the House by her Majesty's Ministers."*685684Times683682681R. PeelWhy, it would be what Shakspeare called All the world to nothing.' He begged to say that on the call of the constituency, he could not refuse to help them to get a cheap loaf."'Was ever woman in this humour won?''Was ever woman in this humour woo'd?"But the most important subject of all was undoubtedly the Corn-laws, and he had found in the progress of his canvass, that his opponents had endeavoured to injure him with the electors, by misrepresenting his opinions on that subject. It had been said, that he had come here prepared only to look after his own interest as a landed proprietor; he certainly thought such a mode of opposition was not creditable to those who had set it up. This much he could say—it was far from the truth; for whatever might be his individual interests, he was prepared to sacrifice them if he found they were opposed to the general good. He had gone into houses where he had seen swarms of children, and the mother had anxiously asked him how she could feed them? That the father toiled from morning till night, but could not sufficiently supply their wants. He had found this in a great many instances, and if he had any previous indisposition to the modification of the Corn-laws, such a state of feeling would remove it. Why it would be useless for him to attempt to contest the borough under such a stale of things, and if he won it, it would be like Richard won Lady Anne—680679678677676675674673672Thompson.671Sir G. Grey
670: Sir, I at once retract the expression; and leave Mr. Oastler to the protection of his party. It has been charged against the Government that they have fomented Chartism, and the late insurrection at Newport has been adduced in proof of it. This, indeed, seems to have been a God-send to hon. Gentlemen opposite, for it constitutes the only recent circumstance which gives a shadow of foundation for the motion. But is it attempted to be said, that the late insurrection in Wales is chargeable on the Government? and is any imputation suggested as to the mode in which they have dealt with it? Is there no ground for suspecting that the real cause of complaint is, that while her Majesty, in the Speech from the Throne, has lamented the existence of insubordination, and the acts of violence which have been committed, and while, in our Address to the Crown, we have unanimously expressed our concern at these events, the Government have not felt it necessary to propose to Parliament, as former Governments have done, to increase the severity of the laws, or to commit to them any extraordinary powers, for the purpose of repressing or punishing insurrection? No, the Government have relied on the efficiency of the existing laws, which it was their duty to administer, and I ask any hon. Gentleman opposite whether those laws have not been firmly, strictly, and, at the same time, mercifully enforced? The Government have submitted the question of guilty or not guilty, as to the parties taken in insurrection, to the ordinary tribunals of the country—to juries chosen
670Sir G. Grey
732 remarked that the Judge Advocate-General had, amongst other topics ably urged in defence of her Majesty's Ministers, challenged the hon. 13a-lonet, the Mover, and his supporters of the motion, upon the attempts made by the present Government to introduce a system of national education, and emphatically put it to the House-and the country, whether the provision made, and made with difficulty, and not without violent opposition, for so desirable an object, did not call for the gratitude and entitle them to the confidence of the people's representatives. With respect to the subject of education, the Judge Advocate had challenged hon. Gentlemen opposite to enter upon the merits of that great question, but not one of them had yet responded to that call. He would ask, was this a question which the Government ought to have left untouched? He thought that question could only be answered in the negative; and then he was also firmly persuaded that the more the system now adopted was persevered in, the more it would be found that the principles upon which it was founded were the only principles upon which a scheme of education could be carried on either by the present Government or any other. Again, would it be denied that the measure of poor laws for Ireland was a subject of proud congratulation to the present Government? He believed that there was no act in which a Government might take more honest pride than in passing a measure of relief for a large suffering people, persevering in spite of the opposition of the aristocracy of that country, and of an hon. and learned Member who was here even more powerful than that aristocracy, being well convinced in their own minds that the measure was Called for and justified by necessity. Now, what grounds were there for the present motion? He felt very certain that upon none of the grounds alleged by the hon. Member for Kilmarnock could the rest of the party opposite join in this vote of censure. In this House they were all independent members; and the welfare of the country was of more importance to them than the triumph of any party. All that he or other well-wishers of his country desired at the hands of Government was to have the country well governed. This was and should be the main and the important
732Sir H. Verney
754 said, in the present state of the country, to attempt, as this motion attempted, to deprive Ministers of the confidence of the House, and to weaken the executive Government, was a course so reckless, that he could scarcely bring himself to believe that even hon. Gentlemen opposite would adopt it. He put it to hon. Gentlemen opposite whether, at this time, there was not more at stake than the mere existence of this or any other Government—whether the temporary and uncertain triumph of party was an object worthy of attainment at such a price—whether the still more temporary and uncertain tenure of office might not be too dearly purchased? He regretted, too, that the new-born tranquillity of Ireland should still be so much in its infancy as still to require to be cherished by the Government in which it originated. He admitted that Ireland owed much to the right hon. Baronet for the great concession of civil and religious liberty, and to the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, for his exertions in support of the national system of education in Ireland, but he did dread the opinions of some of the supporters of the right hon. Baronet in the House, and still more the opinions of some of his supporters out of the House. He did not fear their numbers or their suffrages, but he dreaded the effect which the violence of their opinions might have on the measures of the right hon. Baronet if he again came into office. The fewer the numbers, the greater the violence. The course pursued by the present Government, with regard to the Church, had been often strongly animadverted on; but he maintained, that by reducing the abuses in the Church, they had done a service to the Church, by lessening the causes of dissent. Hon. Gentlemen opposite professed to be the exclusive friends of the Church. They seemed to think they were bound to receive service from the Church in return. That was the real reason of the cry that the Church was in danger. His opinion was, that the security and the danger of the Church rested with itself. Its security consisted in the purity of its doctrine, and its dangers must arise from abuses in its
754Mr. Rice
768767unholy alliancecompact766765764 said, that the hon. Member for Dover had stated that he Would take the number of troops in Ireland as a barometer, whereby the peace and tranquillity of Ireland might be tested; now he would ask the hon. Member whether he intended to instance the number at this moment in. Ireland, or the number which existed there previously to the disturbances in England, which had been caused by the mal-administration of affairs in that country and which had rendered an immediate increase of military force necessary. If the hon. Member meant the former, he could tell him that the number at present in Ireland was insufficient for the usual military
768767unholy alliancecompact766765764Lord Claud Hamilton
:As the right hon. Gentleman refers to that speech of mine, I really think before he proceeds he should have a correct version of the substance of what I believe I stated on that occasion.
Lord J. Russell
 said, that the hon. Member was, unquestionably, out of order; and he was sure that, on reflection, he must be fully aware of it himself.The Speaker
746745744743742741Pilot"That the people of Ireland were to talk no more, and were no longer to show either apathy or agitation. The man who did not become as great an agitator as he (Mr. O'Connell) was, was a traitor to Ireland. He bade them send round to their million of men with their thousands of leaders, and let them know, that their country was lost, if their congregations did not rise to prevent their liberties from being wrested from them by force and fraud. The peasant was ready to sacrifice himself, and he called upon them to stand between him and the knife of the oppressor."740"If one of those aristocrats had gone to a stock broker and told him that Tipperary was in commotion, that Galway was in arms, and and that Kerry (the hon. Gentleman's native county) was up, and led on by—(here, said Mr. Litton, there was a blank, and cheers from the people)—if that had been stated, and if the same authority had asked, in case it were at tempted to put down these disturbances, and to hang the agitator, what the national debt in this country would be worth, what do you think would be the answer of the stock broker?""I have always declared that not one drop of blood should be shed—I hate bloodshed and violence; but I now declare that, having struggled through many contests, I am ready to die in the field rather than submit to Tory domination. I have always declared, that not a drop of blood should be shed—but I am ready to die in the field rather than submit to Tory domination. Let others do what they may, I am determined not to submit, and I am certain I will not stand alone, for I will be supported by millions in that determination."739738 had heard in the course of the debate of the previous evening many observations made with reference to Ireland, to which he should have felt it to be his duty not to permit the night to pass over without replying, but for the absence of certain hon. Gentlemen connected with that country, for whose presence he was most desirous during the whole course of the observations which, in the discharge of a solemn duty, he felt compelled to make to the House. He had heard the Government of the Marquess of Normanby, while that nobleman held the distinguished office of Lord-lieutenant of that country, lauded upon the previous evening. To speak of that Government otherwise than in terms of the strongest censure, after the evidence which had been laid before the Committee of the Lords appointed to inquire into the state of crime in Ireland, was utterly ridiculous. Upon the evidence and report of that Committee he would make few, if any, observations; the course which he proposed to himself to take, having relation to the conduct of that noble Lord's successor. It was true that a vote had been passed in that House by a very small majority in favour of Lord Normanby's Government—of a Government which, for his part, he considered a nuisance; but the facts which had been produced before the Lords' Committee threw upon that vote the utmost ridicule. Had not the evidence taken by that Committee established the wholesale discharge of prisoners, and the setting aside of juries in Ireland? Had it not proved, that the judges there were treated by the executive as almost wholly unnecessary, their decisions having been set aside, as of no avail? He would not, however, further allude to the Government of Lord Normanby, but would direct the attention of the House to the maladministration of the government of Ireland during the last six months. When Lord Ebrington had first come among
746745744743742741Pilot"That the people of Ireland were to talk no more, and were no longer to show either apathy or agitation. The man who did not become as great an agitator as he (Mr. O'Connell) was, was a traitor to Ireland. He bade them send round to their million of men with their thousands of leaders, and let them know, that their country was lost, if their congregations did not rise to prevent their liberties from being wrested from them by force and fraud. The peasant was ready to sacrifice himself, and he called upon them to stand between him and the knife of the oppressor."740"If one of those aristocrats had gone to a stock broker and told him that Tipperary was in commotion, that Galway was in arms, and and that Kerry (the hon. Gentleman's native county) was up, and led on by—(here, said Mr. Litton, there was a blank, and cheers from the people)—if that had been stated, and if the same authority had asked, in case it were at tempted to put down these disturbances, and to hang the agitator, what the national debt in this country would be worth, what do you think would be the answer of the stock broker?""I have always declared that not one drop of blood should be shed—I hate bloodshed and violence; but I now declare that, having struggled through many contests, I am ready to die in the field rather than submit to Tory domination. I have always declared, that not a drop of blood should be shed—but I am ready to die in the field rather than submit to Tory domination. Let others do what they may, I am determined not to submit, and I am certain I will not stand alone, for I will be supported by millions in that determination."739738Mr. Litton
763 expressed his astonishment, since the subject of the motion, according to the hon. Gentleman who spoke last in its favour, furnished such a superfluity of weapons wherewith to attack the Ministry, that all the speakers had said exactly the same, until they had become nearly tiresome. Mr. Frost was the cry, and the crime of elevating that person to the magistracy was the overdone theme of Gentlemen opposite. Hon. Gentlemen seemed to assume, also, that the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, ought to have had an intuitive knowledge that Mr. Frost was addicted to treason; and they charitably supposed, that all the noble Lord's magistrates had similar propensities. He must say, that hon. Gentlemen opposite took very little
763Mr. F. H. F. Berkeley
762Cries of" Order."761 had not intended to take any part in this debate, nor should he occupy
762Cries of" Order."761Mr. Muntz
753752751750749:I shall not trouble the House at any length, and, painful as it is to me, at all times, to address the House, it is doubly painful to me to do so when I feel compelled to express an entire want of confidence in men with whom I have formerly acted, and for many of whom I still entertain sentiments of undiminished regard. But the same sense of duty by which I have been hitherto actuated, compels me not to give an absolutely silent vote on the present most important occasion.—It is not my intention to detain the House by touching upon the variety of topics upon which other hon. Gentlemen have enlarged; but to confine myself to my own country—I might almost say to my own neighbourhood—and in these alone, I regret to say, I find but too sufficient causes for want of confidence in our governors; I allude to the disturbed stale of the manufacturing districts. In the manufacturing parts of the county which I have the honour to represent, things have remained, for above a year, in the most unsatisfactory state. The Chartists are numerous—they have secret meetings; they are organised; extensively armed; in correspondence, through delegates, with every manufacturing part of the kingdom; and obedient to a Council, from which they receive instructions from time to time. More than once they have shewed themselves openly. Ballot and universal suffrage are their pretended objects; but spoliation and a division of property are I heir real designs. I do not pretend to say, that I have any fear of their at any time realizing such chimerical views; but of this I am persuaded, that if things are allowed to go on as they are at present, destruction of life and property will be the consequence, in repeated instances. Those who reside in the neighbourhood are harassed by continual apprehensions, and obliged to keep themselves in a constant attitude of preparation and self-defence. They feel to be living by the side of a volcano, which may, at any moment, explode, and mark the surrounding country with a black stream of devastation and blood, It was but the other day that an
753752751750749Mr. H. Gally Knight
748747 would leave the defence of the Irish Government to the Ministers, who were perfectly able to do it, but he was anxious to state the grounds which called upon him to give his cordial support to the amendment of the right hon. Baronet. If the question were, whether her Majesty's present Government was the best that could be, or whether there might not be formed out of the Liberal party in this country a Ministry better entitled to the confidence of the country, he should most likely be found voting in opposition to the noble Lord below him. But that was not now the question; the question now to be determined was, whether the House was disposed to place its confidence in the noble Lord or in the right hon. Gentleman opposite. That being the case, he would very briefly examine the conduct of the Gentleman opposite. If he took as a sample the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman from his first entrance into public life up to the present moment, he found that he had been, upon all occasions, behind the spirit of the times. He found him up to the last moment the most eloquent opponent of the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts; the same with regard to the Emancipation Act, and the same with regard to the important measure of Parliamentary Reform. What, on the contrary, had been the conduct of the noble Lord? He was no partisan of the noble Lord—he was as independent of the Government as he was of the right hon. Gentleman, but he found, that from the first entrance of the noble Lord into public life, and up to the present moment, he had never for one instant swerved from the principles of his youth, and on that ground alone he should be disposed to support the noble Lord. Then he found hon. Gentlemen opposite the opposers of any amendment in any abuse. True it was that they said, "Show us any real abuse, and we will provide a remedy," but he would ask whether, as a party, they had not set themselves against every amendment? Take the Reform Bill itself. Had they not done all they could to thwart the beneficial working of that measure? There was one amendment in particular which had been introduced with reference to reform. What had hon. Gentlemen opposite done with regard to the fictitious votes? The evil
748747Mr. Dennistoun
 rose to order, and appealed to the Speaker as to whether it were not most disorderly on the part of the hon. Member to make a charge of this kind, and to insinuate that any hon. Member had his price.Mr. Scholefield
835834833832831830829Although it be not shone upon."True as the dial to the sun,Whether it win or lose the game,"Our loyalty is still the same,828827826825824823822821820819ll818l817816 said, it is possible, Sir, that the House may imagine I rise under some little feeling of irritation, to reply to the personalities and accusations of the right hon. Baronet. I shall indulge in neither. It would be easy to reply to them—to recriminate would be still easier. Were I alone personally considered, I should think either course unworthy of me. I know that egotism in this House is always unpopular; on this occasion it would be singularly unseasonable. If ever I am under the necessity of addressing this House on matters which concern myself, I hope it shall be on some occasion when the dearest interests of the empire are not staked on the event of our debate. I do rise, Sir, to address you under feelings of deep anxiety, but in that anxiety there is not, if I know my own heart, any mixture of selfish feeling. I do feel, indeed, with the most intense conviction, that in pleading for the Government to which I belong, I am pleading for the dearest interests of the Commonwealth—for the reformation of abuses, and for the preservation of august and venerable institutions. I trust, Mr. Speaker, that the first Cabinet Minister who, when the question is, whether the Government be or be not worthy of confidence, offers himself in debate, will find some portion of that generosity and good feeling which once distinguished English gentlemen. But be this as it may, my voice shall be heard. I was saying that I am pleading, not only for the preservation of our institutions, but for liberty and order, for justice ad-
835834833832831830829Although it be not shone upon."True as the dial to the sun,Whether it win or lose the game,"Our loyalty is still the same,828827826825824823822821820819ll818l817816Mr. Macaulay
806805804F. Maule803802801lll"I also believe, that the elective franchise might be extended to every 10lMacaulayl800"To found a new Reform Bill on the basis of triennial Parliaments, household suffrage, and vote by ballot.""Will the non-householders be satisfied? Will they not exclaim against the partiality? Will they not join in demanding that with vote by ballot, universal suffrage is the only tolerable scheme?''Morning Chronicle"Ballot is suited to an absolute government of the few, or a free Government where the suffrage is universal. But for the middle classes of this country to pretend to an irresponsible and secret power over the destinies of the country, would be, as the Morning Chronicle799"Those who call themselves Conservatives must vote with the party of resistance.""Surely, resistance must commence some" where, and wherever it does commence—""The Reform Act was carried under the auspices of Lord Grey, assisted by statesmen long used to power, and able to weigh their proceedings. That weight of authority carried along with it a large proportion of the House of Lords and the dispassionate Reformers throughout the country. But, for a new Reform Bill opposed by a majority in the House of Commons and five-sixths of the House of Lords, no such authority could be invoked. It would be menace and the multitude; unknown leaders dictating to intelligence and property; an attempt at reform, but sure to end in confusion.""Would go for to shake the stability of property, and make law the servant of disorder.""But supposing," said the noble Lord, "a new enthusiasm could be awakened, I am not ready to stir the caldron from which so potent a charm could be extracted. The excitement of a new change—the passions again raised—the House of Commons again in the furnace to be melted in a new mould—the people again in the temper which burst out in flames at Nottingham and Bristol—"798Address to the Electors of Stroud797796mal-adroit"Hear, hear795794Hansard, third series, vol. xxxv., p. 483*"Not only in point of honour, but in point of feeling, and of every regard which they could consider binding as public men, he and his colleagues felt bound to adhere to the principle and letter of this resolution."*793Ibid, vol, xxvii. P. 767."Thought not rash or violent, but calculated to set the question at rest, on grounds really satisfactory to the country."*792Hansard, third series, vol. xxiii., p. 666."I am so convinced of this, that I am morally certain, that if by any chance or accident the right hon. Gentleman, instead of having been left in continual minorities since the commencement of this Parliament, had been, on the contrary, in possession of a large majority, and could have counted a majority of more
*792Hansard, third series, vol. xxiii., p. 666.*"Considering himself pledged not only by his general duty as a Member of that House, but by the resolution which had been passed the other day to attend to the just complaints of the people of Ireland—he thought that if there ever were a just ground of complaint on the part of any people against any grievance, it was the complaint of the people of Ireland, against the present appropriation of tithes. He should then, deeply lamenting the decision he should feel himself bound to come to, but at the same time reflecting that he had, to the utmost of his power, resisted all projects for the Repeal of the Union, and that he had, by the support he gave to this and former bills for the maintenance of tithes, vindicated the right of property against those who wrongfully withheld them, he should, at whatever cost and sacrifice, do what he should consider his bounden duty; namely, do justice to Ireland."*791790Howick789788 felt greatly obliged to the Speaker for calling upon him, and for allowing him to follow the noble Lord who had just sat down; and he must say, at the commencement of that which he was about to address to the House, that he had heard parts of the speech of the noble Lord with sincere satisfaction, because he had served under the father of the noble Lord when the Reform Bill was carried, and because it was imagined that the noble Lord represented the opinions of that noble individual, Earl Grey. It rejoiced him, then, to find, that though the noble Lord rejected the term of the finality of the Reform Bill, still the party of the noble Lord and his more immediate connections adhered to that bill, as a satisfactory settlement of a vital question. There were parts of the speech of the noble Lord in which he entirely concurred; but still, he must say, that having listened to the noble Lord's premises,
806805804F. Maule803802801lll"I also believe, that the elective franchise might be extended to every 10lMacaulayl800"To found a new Reform Bill on the basis of triennial Parliaments, household suffrage, and vote by ballot.""Will the non-householders be satisfied? Will they not exclaim against the partiality? Will they not join in demanding that with vote by ballot, universal suffrage is the only tolerable scheme?''Morning Chronicle"Ballot is suited to an absolute government of the few, or a free Government where the suffrage is universal. But for the middle classes of this country to pretend to an irresponsible and secret power over the destinies of the country, would be, as the Morning Chronicle799"Those who call themselves Conservatives must vote with the party of resistance.""Surely, resistance must commence some" where, and wherever it does commence—""The Reform Act was carried under the auspices of Lord Grey, assisted by statesmen long used to power, and able to weigh their proceedings. That weight of authority carried along with it a large proportion of the House of Lords and the dispassionate Reformers throughout the country. But, for a new Reform Bill opposed by a majority in the House of Commons and five-sixths of the House of Lords, no such authority could be invoked. It would be menace and the multitude; unknown leaders dictating to intelligence and property; an attempt at reform, but sure to end in confusion.""Would go for to shake the stability of property, and make law the servant of disorder.""But supposing," said the noble Lord, "a new enthusiasm could be awakened, I am not ready to stir the caldron from which so potent a charm could be extracted. The excitement of a new change—the passions again raised—the House of Commons again in the furnace to be melted in a new mould—the people again in the temper which burst out in flames at Nottingham and Bristol—"798Address to the Electors of Stroud797796mal-adroit"Hear, hear795794Hansard, third series, vol. xxxv., p. 483*"Not only in point of honour, but in point of feeling, and of every regard which they could consider binding as public men, he and his colleagues felt bound to adhere to the principle and letter of this resolution."*793Ibid, vol, xxvii. P. 767."Thought not rash or violent, but calculated to set the question at rest, on grounds really satisfactory to the country."*792Hansard, third series, vol. xxiii., p. 666."I am so convinced of this, that I am morally certain, that if by any chance or accident the right hon. Gentleman, instead of having been left in continual minorities since the commencement of this Parliament, had been, on the contrary, in possession of a large majority, and could have counted a majority of more
*792Hansard, third series, vol. xxiii., p. 666.*"Considering himself pledged not only by his general duty as a Member of that House, but by the resolution which had been passed the other day to attend to the just complaints of the people of Ireland—he thought that if there ever were a just ground of complaint on the part of any people against any grievance, it was the complaint of the people of Ireland, against the present appropriation of tithes. He should then, deeply lamenting the decision he should feel himself bound to come to, but at the same time reflecting that he had, to the utmost of his power, resisted all projects for the Repeal of the Union, and that he had, by the support he gave to this and former bills for the maintenance of tithes, vindicated the right of property against those who wrongfully withheld them, he should, at whatever cost and sacrifice, do what he should consider his bounden duty; namely, do justice to Ireland."*791790Howick789788Sir J. Graham
"That it was in vain that princes should consult about matters unless they also consult about persons, for matters after all, are but dead images—the life of the execution of affairs consists in the choice of persons."815***"Nothing less than the continuance of the connexion of one part of the empire with the other—that it involved nothing short of the integrity of the empire, and he would add, nothing short of the peace of the world. When he considered the moral effect which such a law must have in Canada—when he saw that it amounted, in point of fact, to nothing more nor less than a strong and direct condemnation of the policy pursued in that country, he could not, either in his conscience, or from a regard to the interests and welfare of the empire, consent to the second reading of the bill."*814813812***811tabula rasa"For the sake of argument I will assume the possibility of our being in a situation in which we might legislate with a *811tabula rasadictumdictum810809"Send me the names of the men you have chosen to be magistrates, and I will put them in the commission of the peace.""Though I am defeated in the endeavour to obtain such an enactment, still, in exercising the prerogative of the Crown I will indirectly do that, which by the act I cannot do directly;"808"For these considerations, I, with many others, thought these meetings perfectly legal; and, under such considerations, I thought we were-perfectly right in attending such meetings.""I did not consider that meetings of these kinds were illegal; no one ever told me that they were. Besides, not two months before Lord John Russell, the Secretary of State, said, at a public dinner at Liverpool, that public meetings were not only lawful, but commendable; for public discussion, he thought, was the best means to elicit truth. If any one had told me these meetings must be stopped or put down, I certainly would have been the first to stop them."807"Lord John Russell has told us, that there are some who would advise the putting down of the meetings of the people; but he would not adopt such a course, for he admitted the right of the people to meet. Thank you for nothing, my lord ! The attempt to put down one meeting, would put up two.""We have had many hard tugs together, and shall we, now that my Lord John Russell has discovered that we have a right to meet, shall we give it up? No, my boys, this in Yorkshire, and you are Yorkshire lads. You will tell him that you will either have your rights, or you will die in the struggle."Northern StarNorthern StarGlobe had never seen a corrected edition of that report. The report, as he had it, was published in the "That it was in vain that princes should consult about matters unless they also consult about persons, for matters after all, are but dead images—the life of the execution of affairs consists in the choice of persons."815***"Nothing less than the continuance of the connexion of one part of the empire with the other—that it involved nothing short of the integrity of the empire, and he would add, nothing short of the peace of the world. When he considered the moral effect which such a law must have in Canada—when he saw that it amounted, in point of fact, to nothing more nor less than a strong and direct condemnation of the policy pursued in that country, he could not, either in his conscience, or from a regard to the interests and welfare of the empire, consent to the second reading of the bill."*814813812***811tabula rasa"For the sake of argument I will assume the possibility of our being in a situation in which we might legislate with a *811tabula rasadictumdictum810809"Send me the names of the men you have chosen to be magistrates, and I will put them in the commission of the peace.""Though I am defeated in the endeavour to obtain such an enactment, still, in exercising the prerogative of the Crown I will indirectly do that, which by the act I cannot do directly;"808"For these considerations, I, with many others, thought these meetings perfectly legal; and, under such considerations, I thought we were-perfectly right in attending such meetings.""I did not consider that meetings of these kinds were illegal; no one ever told me that they were. Besides, not two months before Lord John Russell, the Secretary of State, said, at a public dinner at Liverpool, that public meetings were not only lawful, but commendable; for public discussion, he thought, was the best means to elicit truth. If any one had told me these meetings must be stopped or put down, I certainly would have been the first to stop them."807"Lord John Russell has told us, that there are some who would advise the putting down of the meetings of the people; but he would not adopt such a course, for he admitted the right of the people to meet. Thank you for nothing, my lord ! The attempt to put down one meeting, would put up two.""We have had many hard tugs together, and shall we, now that my Lord John Russell has discovered that we have a right to meet, shall we give it up? No, my boys, this in Yorkshire, and you are Yorkshire lads. You will tell him that you will either have your rights, or you will die in the struggle."Northern StarNorthern StarGlobeSir J. Graham
760 regretted that he had been out of order, and he could assure the hon. Member for Birmingham that he did not say one word with the intention of hurting the feelings of the hon. Member, and, in using the word "price," he could assure him that he did not mean to do so in an offensive sense, but undoubtedly he made an unguarded use of the word. He intended to use the word in the same sense as he would apply to the support which he gave to the right hon. Member for Tamworth. He believed that the principles which he entertained would be carried out by supporting the right hon. Baronet; and so the hon. Gentleman, no doubt, believed that the principles which he entertained would be carried out or advanced by Ministers, otherwise he would not give his support to her Majesty's Government. He, in the most distinct terms, disavowed the intention of saying any thing personally offensive, but he could not help feeling, that when an hon. Member avowed republican opinions, and who took his place in that House as a supporter of the Government, it was impossi-
760Mr. Pakington
759758757756755 as he had long been of opinion that the dismissal of the present weak and vacillating administration would benefit the country, could not consent to give a silent vote on this momentous question. The difficulty he had in grappling with the subject was the superfluity of grounds for charge against them; for there was not one branch of the great affairs of this country that did not afford fair ground for inculpating the Government. If the present resolution was carried, the result would be, to establish a Government strong in abilities, and in perfect union with its supporters, who would be prepared to follow that great statesman whom they acknowledged as their leader. He could not but regret that this motion had not been brought forward last year instead of at the present time. Had it been brought forward last year, it was notorious that it would have been carried, and the country would have been spared the evils inflicted on it since the last session. But during the recess Ministers had, in order to secure the support of the ultras of their party, made concessions to the democratic spirit which had recently been making such strides. The first concession was that which made the ballot an open question. The next was the Penny Postage system. Popular as that measure had been, he would not shrink from avowing the opinions he entertained on the subject of the concession of what was likely so seriously to affect the finances of the country. Even had the revenue been in a flourishing state, the post-horse duty
759758757756755Mr. Pakington,
787786Cheers785Laughter784783782781ll780779778777776775774773772771770Question769 spoke nearly as follows:The hon. Member for Worcestershire, who spoke just now, said, that his difficulty in addressing the House arose, not with a lack of matter wherewith to support the motion, but, on the contrary, from the superfluity of matter of accusation which he had to bring against the Government. Yet, though I have listened most attentively to the hon. Member, and to those other hon. Members who preceded him in the debate, on his side of the House, I must say it appears to me, that there has been the most total absence of anything like reasons, of that gravity and importance, which, I imagine, could alone justify a proceeding of so remarkable, of so unusual a character as that which is now taking place. A motion for a vote of want of confidence in a ministry, is, in general, the last resource, to be adopted only under circumstances of great and unusual difficulty and necessity. And undoubtedly it appears to me, that no reasons whatever of that kind have been now assigned, and that all the very trifling arguments which have been brought forward in defence of the motion, my right hon. Friend, (the Judge Advocate), in that speech of his last night, which has been so much and so justly commended on both sides of the House, has most completely answered. In my opinion, that answer is so complete, that I should not now have ventured to offer
787786Cheers785Laughter784783782781ll780779778777776775774773772771770Question769Viscount Howick
842841840839838837836 addressed the House. If he were to refer to the speeches delivered last night, he should say, that her Majesty's Ministers must be most peculiarly alive to the truth of an old adage, the exact terms of which he could not at that moment call to mind, but which went to this effect—that it was comparatively easy for a man to defend himself against his enemies, but that he required supernatural aid to guard him against his friends. He considered, of all the speeches that had been delivered upon the important subject which now occupied the attention of the House, that the two speeches, which were more than any other likely to be mischievous to the interests and views of her Majesty's Government, were the two principal speeches which came from their own side of the House last night—the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Northumberland (Lord Howick), and the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who closed last night's debate (Mr. Macaulay). If the noble Lord had been in his place, he should have congratulated him most sincerely upon the bold and manly manner in which he avowed the reasons for which he thought it necessary to resign his place in the Government. He should have congratulated the noble Lord upon his avowal, that it was not from any petty or personal motive, or from disappointed
842841840839838837836Viscount Powerscourt
923"Who was Mr. Wyse? A man who has employed his talents—and they are great—his
923"And not only that, gentlemen, but, in his place in Parliament, he has spoken of the Church as 'that which a faction fattens, and by which a nation starves.' And, only a few years ago, he was among the foremost who refused to pay tithes; he rebelled against the law, and his name stands on the list of the persons who have been sued in the Court of Exchequer in Ireland, and over whom the law has triumphed. This is the man who has been made a Privy Councillor by Lord Melbourne!"Cries of "Read on.""But," proceeded the rev. gentleman, "how stands the case now? Appointments and situations, made vacant by the withdrawal or promotion of members of the Church of England, are filled up in a wholesale and insulting manner by Lord Melbourne with Roman Catholics, and these"—(the House would remark that) —" the most obnoxious, by their public character and conduct, to all the faithful members of the Church and State. It is this point which forms the chief ground of our complaint. Mr. M. O'Ferrall vacated his office in the Treasury, and who was called to fill it? Why Mr. Wyse, another Roman Catholic."922"All this," the rev. gentleman went on, "goes to prove that the Conservatives, as a
922Ward:"And here, gentlemen, I wish to make one remark on the fallacy now daily and studiously put forth in the Ministerial papers that the great body of the Conservatives are anxious to make the Emancipation Act a dead letter. Sir, we desire no such thing; we know that it is the law of the laud, and, like every other position of that law, must be respected and acted upon. For proof of this, I ask you, have there not been law offices in Ireland, many of which are of high importance, given, time after time, to Roman Catholics, without one word of murmur from the great mass of the Conservatives? Mr. More O'Ferrall was made a Lord of the Treasury, without any complaint from the Conservative body. Lord Fingal, again, is a Lord of the Bedchamber; Lord Surrey is Treasurer of the Household; and many other Roman Catholics have also received appointments without calling forth any general remonstrance from the Conservatives."Pechell:Pechell:Pechell:921Ward:920l.l.919918J. C. Hobhouse:J. C. Hobhouse:Hobhouse:917Hobhouse:916915loud cheers.Loud Laughter.914e confessobona fide913912l.911910l.909908907ullima Thulé,bona fidebona fideWard:906905hon. Member,904903902901900899 said, Sir, I had waited till a late period of the evening in the hope that some other than "the first cabinet Minister who addressed the House," would at least have attempted a reply to the lucid, argumentative, convincing speech which was delivered last night by my right hon. Friend near me; because I felt that in the absence of such reply, the ground was cut from under my feet, and because I felt also that in that speech, in itself embodying the principles upon which I, as one of a great body in that House, and of a still greater body out of the House, am prepared to take my stand, our case was made out that this Government is not worthy of possessing the confidence of this House; and whatever may be the result of the division this night, that it stands confessed that it does not possess the confidence of this House. Sir, I wish to speak with every respect of the talent, of the eloquence, of the ability, of the honesty, of the zeal, in propagating and promoting his own opinions of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Macaulay), who attempted to answer my right hon. Friend near me (Sir J. Graham). I will not say who attempted to answer him; for although my right hon. Friend opposite, at the commencement of his speech, said that it was indeed easy to answer, but easier to recriminate, of recrimination he attempted some little in an eloquent essay, but answer in reply to the facts and arguments of my right hon. Friend
923"Who was Mr. Wyse? A man who has employed his talents—and they are great—his
923"And not only that, gentlemen, but, in his place in Parliament, he has spoken of the Church as 'that which a faction fattens, and by which a nation starves.' And, only a few years ago, he was among the foremost who refused to pay tithes; he rebelled against the law, and his name stands on the list of the persons who have been sued in the Court of Exchequer in Ireland, and over whom the law has triumphed. This is the man who has been made a Privy Councillor by Lord Melbourne!"Cries of "Read on.""But," proceeded the rev. gentleman, "how stands the case now? Appointments and situations, made vacant by the withdrawal or promotion of members of the Church of England, are filled up in a wholesale and insulting manner by Lord Melbourne with Roman Catholics, and these"—(the House would remark that) —" the most obnoxious, by their public character and conduct, to all the faithful members of the Church and State. It is this point which forms the chief ground of our complaint. Mr. M. O'Ferrall vacated his office in the Treasury, and who was called to fill it? Why Mr. Wyse, another Roman Catholic."922"All this," the rev. gentleman went on, "goes to prove that the Conservatives, as a
922Ward:"And here, gentlemen, I wish to make one remark on the fallacy now daily and studiously put forth in the Ministerial papers that the great body of the Conservatives are anxious to make the Emancipation Act a dead letter. Sir, we desire no such thing; we know that it is the law of the laud, and, like every other position of that law, must be respected and acted upon. For proof of this, I ask you, have there not been law offices in Ireland, many of which are of high importance, given, time after time, to Roman Catholics, without one word of murmur from the great mass of the Conservatives? Mr. More O'Ferrall was made a Lord of the Treasury, without any complaint from the Conservative body. Lord Fingal, again, is a Lord of the Bedchamber; Lord Surrey is Treasurer of the Household; and many other Roman Catholics have also received appointments without calling forth any general remonstrance from the Conservatives."Pechell:Pechell:Pechell:921Ward:920l.l.919918J. C. Hobhouse:J. C. Hobhouse:Hobhouse:917Hobhouse:916915loud cheers.Loud Laughter.914e confessobona fide913912l.911910l.909908907ullima Thulé,bona fidebona fideWard:906905hon. Member,904903902901900899Lord Stanley
862l.,l.,s.861860"Judicium Paridis, spretæque injuria formæ.""Manet altâ in mente repôstum859"Or his own clan in former days.""On victories won in border frays"From Nertherby-gate to Branxholm Braes."858857ex parte856Habeas Corpus.855Habeus Corpus.854232391234114312290Total
232391234114312290Total.......7York
.......7York3.3....3Worcester
3.3....3Worcester853....11Wilts
853....11Wilts213545.429Warwick
213545.429Warwick12.48...12Nottingham
12.48...12Nottingham3.111..5Northumberland
3.111..5Northumberland402314.3.43Montgomery
402314.3.43Montgomery4110176..858Monmouth
4110176..858Monmouth80358163..97Lancaster
80358163..97Lancaster211....2Cumberland
211....2Cumberland2215.25..23Chester
2215.25..23ChesterTotal convicted.Fined and Discharged on Sureties.Six Months and under.One Year & above Six Months.Eighteen Months' Imprisonment.Seven Years' TransportationDeath.Total.
Total convicted.Fined and Discharged on Sureties.Six Months and under.One Year & above Six Months.Eighteen Months' Imprisonment.Seven Years' TransportationDeath.Total.
232391234114312290Total
232391234114312290Total.......7York
.......7York3.3....3Worcester
3.3....3Worcester853....11Wilts
853....11Wilts213545.429Warwick
213545.429Warwick12.48...12Nottingham
12.48...12Nottingham3.111..5Northumberland
3.111..5Northumberland402314.3.43Montgomery
402314.3.43Montgomery4110176..858Monmouth
4110176..858Monmouth80358163..97Lancaster
80358163..97Lancaster211....2Cumberland
211....2Cumberland2215.25..23Chester
2215.25..23ChesterTotal convicted.Fined and Discharged on Sureties.Six Months and under.One Year & above Six Months.Eighteen Months' Imprisonment.Seven Years' TransportationDeath.Total.
Total convicted.Fined and Discharged on Sureties.Six Months and under.One Year & above Six Months.Eighteen Months' Imprisonment.Seven Years' TransportationDeath.Total.853852Liddell851James Graham850849l.848847846845844843—When the noble Lord came down to this House to accuse my right hon. Friend, Mr. Macauley, of delivering last night what he termed an essay, I certainly expected to have heard from the noble Lord some more extemporaneous reply to what had fallen in debate on this question than he has given them. For I can not but remark that many of the points in the noble Lord's speech were directed to an individual whom the noble Lord evidently expected to see sitting in his place, but who unfortunately was absent. In what I shall address to the House upon this question, I feel that I must claim your indulgence, because my task will be one of mere matter of detail, which will neces-
862l.,l.,s.861860"Judicium Paridis, spretæque injuria formæ.""Manet altâ in mente repôstum859"Or his own clan in former days.""On victories won in border frays"From Nertherby-gate to Branxholm Braes."858857ex parte856Habeas Corpus.855Habeus Corpus.854232391234114312290Total
232391234114312290Total.......7York
.......7York3.3....3Worcester
3.3....3Worcester853....11Wilts
853....11Wilts213545.429Warwick
213545.429Warwick12.48...12Nottingham
12.48...12Nottingham3.111..5Northumberland
3.111..5Northumberland402314.3.43Montgomery
402314.3.43Montgomery4110176..858Monmouth
4110176..858Monmouth80358163..97Lancaster
80358163..97Lancaster211....2Cumberland
211....2Cumberland2215.25..23Chester
2215.25..23ChesterTotal convicted.Fined and Discharged on Sureties.Six Months and under.One Year & above Six Months.Eighteen Months' Imprisonment.Seven Years' TransportationDeath.Total.
Total convicted.Fined and Discharged on Sureties.Six Months and under.One Year & above Six Months.Eighteen Months' Imprisonment.Seven Years' TransportationDeath.Total.
232391234114312290Total
232391234114312290Total.......7York
.......7York3.3....3Worcester
3.3....3Worcester853....11Wilts
853....11Wilts213545.429Warwick
213545.429Warwick12.48...12Nottingham
12.48...12Nottingham3.111..5Northumberland
3.111..5Northumberland402314.3.43Montgomery
402314.3.43Montgomery4110176..858Monmouth
4110176..858Monmouth80358163..97Lancaster
80358163..97Lancaster211....2Cumberland
211....2Cumberland2215.25..23Chester
2215.25..23ChesterTotal convicted.Fined and Discharged on Sureties.Six Months and under.One Year & above Six Months.Eighteen Months' Imprisonment.Seven Years' TransportationDeath.Total.
Total convicted.Fined and Discharged on Sureties.Six Months and under.One Year & above Six Months.Eighteen Months' Imprisonment.Seven Years' TransportationDeath.Total.853852Liddell851James Graham850849l.848847846845844843Mr. Fox Maule. 
 said, the letter of the Lord-lieutenant was a confidential communication in answer to a confidential application. He had stated to the House, and he now repeated to the noble Lord, that the Lord-lieutenant in that letter said he knew of no objection to the appointment of Mr. Frost. The noble Lord could scarcely ask him who was the Lord-lieutenant. It was Mr. Hanbury Leigh. That was all the information he had to give the noble Lord on the subject. He was not disposed to produce a confidential communication, and he hoped the noble Lord would take its purport on his statement. The letter was dated on the 13th February.Mr. F. Maule
Malo, mechercle, cum Platone errare quam cum istis vera sentire.869868867866865F. Maule:F. Maule:864 was anxious to address the House for two reasons. He wished to express his opinion on the question before the House, and to offer some reply to the allusions which had been made to himself, and he hoped he should be able to answer those allusoins in such a manner as to spare himself the like trouble in future. One point which had been very much insisted upon by hon. Gentlemen opposite as a reason why the House should not concur in the motion, was that disunion which it was alleged existed between his right hon. Friend below him (Sir R. Peel) and a portion of those hon. Gentlemen who sat on the benches around and behind him. It had been asserted in a taunting and triumphant tone, both by the right hon. Gentleman the Judge Advocate, and, by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, that such a disunion existed. The latter right hon. Gentleman went so far as to say that the right hon. Baronet, after the division which had taken place in his forces on the question of privilege, would find more difficulty in marshalling his ranks, and in carrying on the Government, than any difference of opinion en the opposite side could produce. A more fallacious and, he would almost say, a more absurd argument had never been adduced. As one who had voted in the minority against the right hon. Baronet on the question of privilege, he should take leave to explain to the House the grounds on which he had so voted. He thought he was speaking strictly to the question, because if it was imputed that that division had thrown difficulties in the way of the right hon. Baronet, he was prepared to show that such was not the case. He was perfectly ready to admit that the arguments which the right hon. Baronet had brought forward in the House were not to be refuted, and he was proud to see him standing in that position in which his logical reasoning had placed him, and which hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House had declared had furnished a most valuable defence of the course which the House had pursued. But, while be admitted that, he saw that the practi-
Malo, mechercle, cum Platone errare quam cum istis vera sentire.869868867866865F. Maule:F. Maule:864Mr. Liddell
885"Ibimus utcunque precedes."884O'Connell.883882 rejoiced to hear the statement which had just been made by his hon. Friend the Member for Brighton, because it had overthrown the only semblance of attack which had been attempted to be introduced by the hon. Gentlemen opposite, in support of the assertions made last night by the hon. Member for Edinburgh. He could only say for himself in the outset, that he partook in the objection which was felt by hon. Members on his side of the House to these three Roman Catholic Gentlemen, not because they were Roman Catholics, but because of the course they had taken—not from their tenets in religion, but from their opinions in politics. For that reason he objected to them for the same reason that he would object to gentlemen of the established Church if they entertained the same political opinions. He observed that the Members of the Government cheered tonight when it was asserted that it could not be supposed that they themselves were hostile to the Established Church; but, nevertheless, he was compelled to doubt that when he saw them introducing, into a permanent place in the Government, the Gentleman who had not only become one of the loudest in demanding the destruction of the Established Church, but also had been opposed, personally, to the law, by withholding from the Church the tithes which were her due; he put himself forward in inventing a species of patriotism, which consisted in withholding from the Church that which, in common law, and, he would say in common honesty, was her property. He listened with some anxiety to the speech delivered by the hon. Member for Lincolnshire. He was surprised to hear that the hon. Member rejoiced to find that the corn laws had been made an open question. This was the compliment he paid to the present Government, in whom he professed to confide. He confessed that he did not doubt the sincerity of his professions, but he doubted the soundness of his opinions, when he found him taking the trouble to
885"Ibimus utcunque precedes."884O'Connell.883882Mr. Sidney Herbert
875874873 said, that the present motion was one which should have his
875874873Mr. Lascelles
863 hoped he would be allowed to explain the reason why he had put this question to the hon. Gentleman. He understood that it was generally surmised abroad that the author of the letter
863Lord G. Somerset
 begged permission of the House to put a question to the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down in reference to a letter which he had stated had been addressed to the Home-office upon the appointment of Mr. Frost to the magistracy by the Lord-lieutenant of the county. He wished to know who that Lord-lieutenant was who gave his sanction to the appointment, and what was the date of his letter?Lord G. Somerset
879"Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes."878877876 observed, that in the third night of a debate in which so little had been charged, though so much had been said, he should confine himself to the course proposed by the hon. Baronet who opened the debate. That hon. Baronet had said, that he felt it his duty, as an independent country gentleman, to exhibit to the country how far the present Government was possessed of the confidence of this House. He thought he had not gone far enough; for, inasmuch as the resolution now before the House, if affirmed, would not only remove the present Ministers, but as a natural consequence, replace them by the Gentlemen opposite, it was his duty to have set forth the claims which they had to recommend them to the confidence of the country. He agreed with the hon. Baronet, that
879"Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes."878877876Mr. Handley
881Cheers.880 wished to say a few words respecting a clergyman of the Church of England, the Rev. James Anderson of Brighton, upon whom the hon. and gallant Captain (Pechell) had made an unmerited, and he thought before he sat down he should show, as unwarrantable an attack, as had ever been made by one man on another. He had great respect for many of his opponents who were residing at Brighton, and he was convinced that no measure that the gallant Officer could have taken would give so great and so universal an offence in that place as the attack he had just made. The hon. and gallant Captain said that Mr. Anderson had made a speech on the
881Cheers.880Sir A. Dalrymple
with Roman Catholics.wholesaleconscientious member of the Church of England,"The only other point on which I shall offer any observation is with regard to patronage, and I will speak of it, not upon any narrow or paltry considerations of pelf or party, but on the broad relation of church and state. At the termination of the last session of Parliament, many important offices under government became vacant and how have their places, and the places of others been filled up? The place of Mr. Wood, Lord Grey's son-in-law, who was Secretary to the Admiralty, and a with Roman Catholics.wholesaleconscientious member of the Church of England,872l.l.871870 felt chiefly called upon to rise in consequence of some observations that fell last night from the right hon. Member for Pembroke respecting the service to which he had the honour of belonging. The right hon. Baronet had filled the office of First Lord of the Admiralty in this country, and some weight would be attached to what he said on this subject; he was, therefore, surprised and grieved at the language that fell from him. The right hon. Baronet said, that a blow had been struck at the efficiency of the naval service, and that, from the promotions that had been made, officers were left to understand, that services on the quarter deck were regarded as secondary to services on the hustings. The right hon. Baronet went on to state a number of cases, which he asserted were illustrations of this, and in many of which he had reason to believe, that the right hon. Baronet was not correct; he had stated a number of cases of officers who, he alleged, had stood contests when on half pay, and had, since that election, in 1837, stood contests. The first case which had been alluded to was that of Admiral Ommaney, who had been appointed to command the fleet at Lisbon. That gallant officer had hardly taken the command at that station, when he was attacked and libelled in the most gross and shameful manner by a number of the Tory papers, and that in a way which was most disgraceful to the character of the country. It had been made a charge against the gallant officer, that in order to conciliate the Board of Admiralty, he had been guilty of a gross neglect of his duty towards her Majesty the Queen Dowager during her visit to Lisbon, which charge, if substantiated, would have been most ruinous to his character, but he (Captain Pechell) felt assured there was not a naval officer
with Roman Catholics.wholesaleconscientious member of the Church of England,"The only other point on which I shall offer any observation is with regard to patronage, and I will speak of it, not upon any narrow or paltry considerations of pelf or party, but on the broad relation of church and state. At the termination of the last session of Parliament, many important offices under government became vacant and how have their places, and the places of others been filled up? The place of Mr. Wood, Lord Grey's son-in-law, who was Secretary to the Admiralty, and a with Roman Catholics.wholesaleconscientious member of the Church of England,872l.l.871870Captain Pechell
898897CheersCheers.Cheers896895J. Graham894Northern Star893892891l.890bona fide889Cheers888887Member886 said, he would have left such a matter as that of the rev. Mr. Anderson's speech to be settled between the
898897CheersCheers.Cheers896895J. Graham894Northern Star893892891l.890bona fide889Cheers888887Member886Mr. Ward
Morning Chronicle said, that he was always very ready to make any explanation, when the feelings of a gallant Officer were concerned. It was not exactly for him to say whether the words attributed to him in the Morning ChronicleCaptain Fechell
1016"You, the Gentlemen of England, who have property acquired either by yourselves or your ancestors—who have all the blessings of this world surrounding you; oh! send us not over a ministry that cannot govern us well—drive not the people to despair; let not an almost eternal civil war prevail—oh, if you have mercy, stand between Ireland and an Orange ministry."101510141013"We will resist to the death ill-government and unjustly usurped authority. Petitions to the Crown are an idle mockery. We will no longer submit to be governed by a profligate court. It is in your hands, my friends—it is in the hands of the people of England that her destinies are placed for good or for evil.""But shall we quail at this impending danger, and meanly submit without a struggle? No; we will present the same bold front as did our fathers of old, and God defend the right.""Yet on these men are bestowed the countenance and support of the Queen of Protestant England. But alas! her Majesty is Queen only of a faction, and is as much a partisan as the Lord Chancellor himself.""Aliens in blood, language, and religion. Yet on these—"1012"His sheet anchor is the body of Irish Papists and Rapparees whom the priests return to the House of Commons. These are the men who represent the bigoted savages, hardly more cirili2ed than the natives of New Zealand, but animated with a fierce, undying hatred of England. I repeat, then, deliber-
1012"Look at the appointments that these men and women have lately made. There is not one of them that is not a direct insult to the nation. See the Irish Papists preferred to place, to power, and to patronage. I shall take leave, on thus referring to them, to contrast the solemn oath sworn by her Majesty at her coronation with her subsequent acquiescence in these acts. This oath is the compact made between the Sovereign and the people—its obligations are mutual. I will now read it to you, and be you judges whether or no they have been truly fulfilled. Here are the late appointments of Papist councillors. I take them together, and thus I cast them from me with disgust and indignation."1011"Brought up under the auspices of the citizen King of the Belgians, the serf of France, and guided by his influence, the Ministry thinks that if the Monarchy lasts its time it will be enough. 'But the people of England will never consent that the Crown shall be degraded and debased for the inglorious ease of any created being.' (Here there were 'tremendous cheers).' 'Nor will they consent that the personal wishes and caprices of the Sovereign' (the Ministry again) 'shall direct the conduct of the executive. The Monarchy has its rights; but it has also its duties; the people of this country will not be trampled on by Pope or Sovereign'—(still less by the Ministry) 'still less will they endure that a petty German Prince shall hold the fair realm of England in fee farm. We have not forgotten the forced abdication of the Second James.' (This, of course, applied to the Ministry.) 'Nor are we ignorant that the title to the throne of these realms is that derived from a Protestant Princess. No one can regret more than I do the growing unpopularity of the Queen' (meaning the growing unpopularity of the Ministry) 'and her court'—(meaning the court and the Ministry.) 'But look at the composition of that court and its acts. The courts of former Sovereigns have been as frivolous—more vicious, even, than the present; but the Government of the country and the direction of public affairs have been carried on by statesmen of known and recognised ability, honour, and independence—men who were neither the boon companions of the Sovereign, nor the willing slaves of his follies and caprices.' (This was
1011"First, I shall direct your attention to the fearful growth of Popery, allied as it is with atheism, infidelity, and the voluntary or anythingarian principle. Her Majesty's Ministers have recognised this medley as their rule of faith, a? exemplified in their precious scheme of education without religion; and I grieve to say, that her Majesty herself has shown too much countenance to the enemies of the Protestant Church. Brought up under the auspices of the citizen King of the Belgians, the serf of France, and guided by his influence, the Queen thinks that if the Monarchy lasts her time it is enough."1010"Lastly, there is a striking resemblance to the supposed birth of a prince of Wales in the time of James the Second, to the supposed marriage of our Queen to a German prince, whose family are all Papists. When an heir was born to James, the hope of England fell to the ground. In the prospect of a nominal Protestant becoming the husband of our Queen, is the prospect any better.""We see a striking resemblance to the dispensing power which James the Second assumed, now pursued by the Government in not enforcing the remaining laws against Popery. More, we see a striking resemblance to the foreign influence which James was under, in the present position of affairs at Court, in the crowds of followers who infest the palace of our Queen, and fill her mind with Popish and un-English sentiments."1009"We are ambassadors of Christ—Christ, who said, 'you think that I come to bring peace amongst you, but I come to bring a sword—what peace can you expect to have whilst the woman Jezebel lives in the land?'"Oh, oh!"War, war to the knife. They tell you that we are ministers of peace, but where are we to find that, I ask? Not in any part of the Scripture that I know of. There is nothing like it in the Bible. We are the ambassadors of Christ, [Oh, oh!10081007Ironical cheers and laughter from the Opposition.10061005"Still we are burdened with sinecures and pensions, outraging the feelings of every honest and industrious man, a political state church, that, by its extortions and intolerance, under the cloak of religion, brings the sublime and hallowed doctrines of Christianity into disrepute; a standing army as numerous and expensive as if we were at war with all Europe; a ponderous debt that presses most disastrously on the financial interests of the country; a new poor-law brought into existence, whilst the cursed and abominable corn-law exists, by which the food of the people is restricted, at the same time they are starving by thousands in the land of their birth; and in the midst of all this we are told that the reforms already effected are to be final, and that no farther relief from our present state of political slavery
1005l.10041003"I too will say, that if I were to come forward and say, as a working man, that the repeal of the Corn-laws is a final measure of reform, I should deserve all the opprobrium you can heap upon me. I come forward to advocate the repeal of the Corn-laws as a step towards getting that which is the inherent right of every individual to have who is a born subject in this country. I do not attend here tonight for the purpose of asking the aristocracy to pass a law to make bread cheap. I only ask for a repeal of that law which makes bread dear. I do not stand here to get the aristocracy to pass a law that will infringe on the private property and vested rights of any individual, but I ask for a repeal of that law which infringes upon my private property and vested rights. The aristocracy say, that if you repeal the Corn-laws you infringe upon their vested lights, but I ask every working man, has he no estate? Was I not born to a most noble estate, the industry of these hands? And I contend that any law which prevents me exercising my industry is an infringement of my private property. Consequently, I stand here to demand a repeal of the landlord's robbing law."100210011000999998997: Sir, it is not my intention to trouble the House with any reply to the speech, the able speech, no doubt, which has just been delivered by the hon. und learned Member for the University of Oxford. I certainly had not the good fortune to hear that speech throughout, and I therefore leave the unbroken force of whatever arguments the hon. and learned Member has adduced, to the benefit of the party of hon. Gentlemen opposite; and I leave the Ministry to bear the whole brunt of whatever arguments the hon. and learned Member had adduced against them. I solemnly assure the House, that it is with unfeigned regret that I feel it my inevitable duty to address them on this occasion; and that regret is not a little enhanced by the circumstance, that, although various matters have been brought forward, so abundant as to tempt me to trespass on the House at greater length than the House would, probably, be willing to endure, and certainly, than I should be disposed to occupy, I do not think that this debate is likely to raise this House in the opinion of the public, or of the statesmen of Europe. I do not think there has been any of that sagacity which might have been expected to have been exhibited by statesmanlike minds; on the contrary, a species of paltry controversy has arisen, undeserving of such an occasion as the present—this momentous occasion. The great question which the House has to decide is, how this great empire is to be governed and managed, because the manner of management in the present case depends on the men who have
1016"You, the Gentlemen of England, who have property acquired either by yourselves or your ancestors—who have all the blessings of this world surrounding you; oh! send us not over a ministry that cannot govern us well—drive not the people to despair; let not an almost eternal civil war prevail—oh, if you have mercy, stand between Ireland and an Orange ministry."101510141013"We will resist to the death ill-government and unjustly usurped authority. Petitions to the Crown are an idle mockery. We will no longer submit to be governed by a profligate court. It is in your hands, my friends—it is in the hands of the people of England that her destinies are placed for good or for evil.""But shall we quail at this impending danger, and meanly submit without a struggle? No; we will present the same bold front as did our fathers of old, and God defend the right.""Yet on these men are bestowed the countenance and support of the Queen of Protestant England. But alas! her Majesty is Queen only of a faction, and is as much a partisan as the Lord Chancellor himself.""Aliens in blood, language, and religion. Yet on these—"1012"His sheet anchor is the body of Irish Papists and Rapparees whom the priests return to the House of Commons. These are the men who represent the bigoted savages, hardly more cirili2ed than the natives of New Zealand, but animated with a fierce, undying hatred of England. I repeat, then, deliber-
1012"Look at the appointments that these men and women have lately made. There is not one of them that is not a direct insult to the nation. See the Irish Papists preferred to place, to power, and to patronage. I shall take leave, on thus referring to them, to contrast the solemn oath sworn by her Majesty at her coronation with her subsequent acquiescence in these acts. This oath is the compact made between the Sovereign and the people—its obligations are mutual. I will now read it to you, and be you judges whether or no they have been truly fulfilled. Here are the late appointments of Papist councillors. I take them together, and thus I cast them from me with disgust and indignation."1011"Brought up under the auspices of the citizen King of the Belgians, the serf of France, and guided by his influence, the Ministry thinks that if the Monarchy lasts its time it will be enough. 'But the people of England will never consent that the Crown shall be degraded and debased for the inglorious ease of any created being.' (Here there were 'tremendous cheers).' 'Nor will they consent that the personal wishes and caprices of the Sovereign' (the Ministry again) 'shall direct the conduct of the executive. The Monarchy has its rights; but it has also its duties; the people of this country will not be trampled on by Pope or Sovereign'—(still less by the Ministry) 'still less will they endure that a petty German Prince shall hold the fair realm of England in fee farm. We have not forgotten the forced abdication of the Second James.' (This, of course, applied to the Ministry.) 'Nor are we ignorant that the title to the throne of these realms is that derived from a Protestant Princess. No one can regret more than I do the growing unpopularity of the Queen' (meaning the growing unpopularity of the Ministry) 'and her court'—(meaning the court and the Ministry.) 'But look at the composition of that court and its acts. The courts of former Sovereigns have been as frivolous—more vicious, even, than the present; but the Government of the country and the direction of public affairs have been carried on by statesmen of known and recognised ability, honour, and independence—men who were neither the boon companions of the Sovereign, nor the willing slaves of his follies and caprices.' (This was
1011"First, I shall direct your attention to the fearful growth of Popery, allied as it is with atheism, infidelity, and the voluntary or anythingarian principle. Her Majesty's Ministers have recognised this medley as their rule of faith, a? exemplified in their precious scheme of education without religion; and I grieve to say, that her Majesty herself has shown too much countenance to the enemies of the Protestant Church. Brought up under the auspices of the citizen King of the Belgians, the serf of France, and guided by his influence, the Queen thinks that if the Monarchy lasts her time it is enough."1010"Lastly, there is a striking resemblance to the supposed birth of a prince of Wales in the time of James the Second, to the supposed marriage of our Queen to a German prince, whose family are all Papists. When an heir was born to James, the hope of England fell to the ground. In the prospect of a nominal Protestant becoming the husband of our Queen, is the prospect any better.""We see a striking resemblance to the dispensing power which James the Second assumed, now pursued by the Government in not enforcing the remaining laws against Popery. More, we see a striking resemblance to the foreign influence which James was under, in the present position of affairs at Court, in the crowds of followers who infest the palace of our Queen, and fill her mind with Popish and un-English sentiments."1009"We are ambassadors of Christ—Christ, who said, 'you think that I come to bring peace amongst you, but I come to bring a sword—what peace can you expect to have whilst the woman Jezebel lives in the land?'"Oh, oh!"War, war to the knife. They tell you that we are ministers of peace, but where are we to find that, I ask? Not in any part of the Scripture that I know of. There is nothing like it in the Bible. We are the ambassadors of Christ, [Oh, oh!10081007Ironical cheers and laughter from the Opposition.10061005"Still we are burdened with sinecures and pensions, outraging the feelings of every honest and industrious man, a political state church, that, by its extortions and intolerance, under the cloak of religion, brings the sublime and hallowed doctrines of Christianity into disrepute; a standing army as numerous and expensive as if we were at war with all Europe; a ponderous debt that presses most disastrously on the financial interests of the country; a new poor-law brought into existence, whilst the cursed and abominable corn-law exists, by which the food of the people is restricted, at the same time they are starving by thousands in the land of their birth; and in the midst of all this we are told that the reforms already effected are to be final, and that no farther relief from our present state of political slavery
1005l.10041003"I too will say, that if I were to come forward and say, as a working man, that the repeal of the Corn-laws is a final measure of reform, I should deserve all the opprobrium you can heap upon me. I come forward to advocate the repeal of the Corn-laws as a step towards getting that which is the inherent right of every individual to have who is a born subject in this country. I do not attend here tonight for the purpose of asking the aristocracy to pass a law to make bread cheap. I only ask for a repeal of that law which makes bread dear. I do not stand here to get the aristocracy to pass a law that will infringe on the private property and vested rights of any individual, but I ask for a repeal of that law which infringes upon my private property and vested rights. The aristocracy say, that if you repeal the Corn-laws you infringe upon their vested lights, but I ask every working man, has he no estate? Was I not born to a most noble estate, the industry of these hands? And I contend that any law which prevents me exercising my industry is an infringement of my private property. Consequently, I stand here to demand a repeal of the landlord's robbing law."100210011000999998997Mr. O'Connell
 said, At that late hour (twenty minutes to five) he would not trouble the House with a reply.Sir J. Y. Buller
: I beg leave to say that what I stated was, that I was present at that meeting, but that no such language had been used.Colonel Thomas
936"Captain Pechell said, that he challenged the right hon. Baronet to point out any instance where any naval officer, either on full pay, or on half-pay, had remained at any meeting, where unworthy threats, or coarse personal reflections had been made use of towards the Sovereign. He was happy to say that no instance had occurred of any naval officer, either on full or on half-pay, having received any reprimand from his superior officers for remaining at any meeting when such unworthy observations had been indulged in."Morning Chronicle's,, seeing the hon. and gallant Gentleman, the Member for Brighton, in his place, begged to ask him whether he meant any personal reflection upon him (Colonel Thomas) in the following observations, which he found attributed to the hon. and gallant Officer in the 936"Captain Pechell said, that he challenged the right hon. Baronet to point out any instance where any naval officer, either on full pay, or on half-pay, had remained at any meeting, where unworthy threats, or coarse personal reflections had been made use of towards the Sovereign. He was happy to say that no instance had occurred of any naval officer, either on full or on half-pay, having received any reprimand from his superior officers for remaining at any meeting when such unworthy observations had been indulged in."Morning Chronicle's,Colonel Thomas
*Stanley1073l.l.10721071107010691068"It was their duty to encourage the good work (that was the conversion of the Catholics), and he would tell them the manner in which that was to be done. For instance, were the Queen a true Christian (they all knew what he meant), and had she a Christian Ministry, a Christian cabinet, and a Christian court, they should see the Protestant ministers not standing up in tubs, and at the corners of the streets, sometimes getting pelted with mud; but they should see them supported with all the power and authority of the Government, with the military to keep order, if necessary; and a park of artillery to fire a signal for the commencement of divine service."1067106610651064J. Graham106310621061106010591058Western Vindicator,10571056105510541053"That he was directed by the grand jury, as their foreman, to forward a statement, deduced from their inquiry into the state of the county (Lancaster), from which the following are extracts:—'From the result of that inquiry it appears, that the most inflammatory publications have for some time been industriously circulated at a price which puts them very generally into the hands of the poorest classes of society. The training and military drilling of large bodies of men, under regular leaders, have for some time been carried on to a great extent, and the times chosen for the purpose are principally during the night, or at such hours as seem best calculated to elude observation. Marching and other military movements are practised with great precision, and the words of command are promptly and implicitly obeyed.' 'Whatever may be the real object of those who have obtained an influence over the minds of the misguided, there is reason to believe, from the declarations which have been openly and avowedly made, that the object of the lower classes in general is no other than to reverse the orders of society which have been so long established, and to wrest by force from the present possessors, and to divide among themselves, the landed property of the country. 'Indeed, in one populous district, no warrant
1053Habeas CorpusHabeas Corpus105210511050** said, Sir, at the end
Stanley1073l.l.10721071107010691068"It was their duty to encourage the good work (that was the conversion of the Catholics), and he would tell them the manner in which that was to be done. For instance, were the Queen a true Christian (they all knew what he meant), and had she a Christian Ministry, a Christian cabinet, and a Christian court, they should see the Protestant ministers not standing up in tubs, and at the corners of the streets, sometimes getting pelted with mud; but they should see them supported with all the power and authority of the Government, with the military to keep order, if necessary; and a park of artillery to fire a signal for the commencement of divine service."1067106610651064J. Graham106310621061106010591058Western Vindicator,10571056105510541053"That he was directed by the grand jury, as their foreman, to forward a statement, deduced from their inquiry into the state of the county (Lancaster), from which the following are extracts:—'From the result of that inquiry it appears, that the most inflammatory publications have for some time been industriously circulated at a price which puts them very generally into the hands of the poorest classes of society. The training and military drilling of large bodies of men, under regular leaders, have for some time been carried on to a great extent, and the times chosen for the purpose are principally during the night, or at such hours as seem best calculated to elude observation. Marching and other military movements are practised with great precision, and the words of command are promptly and implicitly obeyed.' 'Whatever may be the real object of those who have obtained an influence over the minds of the misguided, there is reason to believe, from the declarations which have been openly and avowedly made, that the object of the lower classes in general is no other than to reverse the orders of society which have been so long established, and to wrest by force from the present possessors, and to divide among themselves, the landed property of the country. 'Indeed, in one populous district, no warrant
1053Habeas CorpusHabeas Corpus105210511050**Lord John Russell
 said, that the right hon. Baronet was in order. He was merely restating part of a speech which he had made the other night, which appeared to have been misunderstood by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax.The Speaker
987l.986985984983Graham982981980979978977976 said, that the noble Member for Northumberland having explained to the House the circumstances under which he had retired from office, and how apart from all personal considerations the noble Lord's motives had been, he, unwilling as he was to trespass upon the House,
987l.986985984983Graham982981980979978977976Mr. C. Wood
996Cries of "Divide."995994Palmerston.993992991 was certain that the Gentlemen on his side of the House were perfectly satisfied with the explanations just given. If there were anything wanted to satisfy him of the propriety of the vote which he meant to give on the question now before the House, those reasons would be found in the speech which his hon. Friend the Member for Halifax (Mr. Wood) had just delivered, and the speech which had been delivered on the preceding evening by the noble Lord the Member for Northumberland. What was the reason which that noble Lord and his hon. Friend had given for doing that, which they themselves thought ought not to be done with-
996Cries of "Divide."995994Palmerston.993992991Mr. Maclean
1017, who was understood to say, that with respect to any expressions which might have been used by him in any address he had made at any public meeting, connected with the name of the Sovereign, he could assure the House that nothing was further from his intention than to make any personal allusion to her Majesty. But he begged to say that, from, the manner in which the royal name had been mixed up by the Government on bringing forward their measures upon every public occasion, it was almost impossible for any one who had to speak on political subjects to do so without mentioning the name of the Sovereign. After what took place in May it was well known that the watch word of the Government
1017Mr. Bradshaw
975974973972vexatio questio,971970"This, in short, strikes me as the outline of the best case to make out, wording the conclusion as strongly as you can in a general sense denouncing the slave trade."sine qua non,sine qua non,969sine qua non"The undersigned cannot too earnestly appeal to the Viscount de Sa da Bandeira, the Minister to whom the glory is due of having, during the short period of dictatorship, proclaimed the abolition of the slave trade, to take into his most serious consideration, in the same philanthropic spirit by which he was on that occasion influenced, the consequences which will be involved in the rejection of this proposal on the part of Great Britain to make slave trade piracy, which is made a condition 969sine qua nonsine qua non."HOWARD DE WALDEN.""My dear Viscount,—Here is a note upon which to hang your declaration as to piracy. You will probably state—1. Your objections and difficulties if insurmountable. 2. The fact of having established a penal law, inflicting a secondary punishment for (illegible) concerned in the slave trade. 3. Remark on no European power besides England having actually declared the slave trade piracy; and, fourthly, conclude with a declaration of the readiness of Portugal, either simultaneously or jointly, to unite with other Powers of Europe in any resolution to the effect of declaring the slave trade piracy, although, circumstanced as the Government is now, you cannot venture to take the initiative." [Now he (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) begged the attention of the House to the concluding passage:]—"This, in short, strikes me as the outline of the best case to make out, wording the conclusion as strongly as you can, in a general sense denouncing the slave trade.—Believe me, &c."Saturday night."(Most confidential.)"Lord Howard de Walden to Viscount de Sa da Bandeira.968sine qua non.967l.l.966J. Russell:Hear965verbatim et literatim,964963962tu quoque961 said, he had listened with great attention to the eloquent speech just delivered by the noble Lord, and had anxiously endeavoured to discover throughout that speech something like an answer to either one or the other of the able addresses which had been spoken from his side of the House, and to which the noble Lord had directed several of his observations. But he must acknowledge, with all possible respect to the noble Lord, that he had not heard even an attempt to answer one of the arguments which had been delivered on his side of the House, when that argument was correctly stated. Were anything required to add to the effect of those admirable addresses to the House which had proceeded
975974973972vexatio questio,971970"This, in short, strikes me as the outline of the best case to make out, wording the conclusion as strongly as you can in a general sense denouncing the slave trade."sine qua non,sine qua non,969sine qua non"The undersigned cannot too earnestly appeal to the Viscount de Sa da Bandeira, the Minister to whom the glory is due of having, during the short period of dictatorship, proclaimed the abolition of the slave trade, to take into his most serious consideration, in the same philanthropic spirit by which he was on that occasion influenced, the consequences which will be involved in the rejection of this proposal on the part of Great Britain to make slave trade piracy, which is made a condition 969sine qua nonsine qua non."HOWARD DE WALDEN.""My dear Viscount,—Here is a note upon which to hang your declaration as to piracy. You will probably state—1. Your objections and difficulties if insurmountable. 2. The fact of having established a penal law, inflicting a secondary punishment for (illegible) concerned in the slave trade. 3. Remark on no European power besides England having actually declared the slave trade piracy; and, fourthly, conclude with a declaration of the readiness of Portugal, either simultaneously or jointly, to unite with other Powers of Europe in any resolution to the effect of declaring the slave trade piracy, although, circumstanced as the Government is now, you cannot venture to take the initiative." [Now he (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) begged the attention of the House to the concluding passage:]—"This, in short, strikes me as the outline of the best case to make out, wording the conclusion as strongly as you can, in a general sense denouncing the slave trade.—Believe me, &c."Saturday night."(Most confidential.)"Lord Howard de Walden to Viscount de Sa da Bandeira.968sine qua non.967l.l.966J. Russell:Hear965verbatim et literatim,964963962tu quoque961Mr. Serjeant Jackson
 rose to order. He wished to know from the Speaker whether, when an hon. Member rose to explain, he was not first of all bound to state in what manner he had been misrepresented.Mr. Wakley
"From his experience in that department, he should say that it was the wiser course for officers to refrain from taking a conspicuous part in party politics.""I take not for granted the report brought to me, which probably proceeds from the sensitive watchfulness of others on such subjects, that you are engaged in cultivating a political interest at Falmouth. As the matter has been mentioned to me, however, I should not act fairly by you were I not to give you a caution, that, in the event of your having such views, they would be considered by the Admiralty utterly incompatible with your present appointment, which cannot be held with a seat in Parliament."990bonâ fide: Where does the rule appear that there should be a flag-officer at Portsmouth? If it was not a rule before, we made it a rule then, and we considered Chatham not a proper place for a flag-officer. But what was the right hon. Baronet's insinuation? That Sir James Gordon was removed in order that Captain Clavell might be put there. That was a misrepresentation. The fact was, that Sir John Pechell was offered the superintendence of the dock-yard; and, if he had accepted it, how could it be said that Sir James Gordon had been removed to make way for Captain Clavell? It was clear, therefore, that the vacancy was not made in order to appoint Captain Plumridge to Falmouth. Was the situation offered to Sir John Pechell "From his experience in that department, he should say that it was the wiser course for officers to refrain from taking a conspicuous part in party politics.""I take not for granted the report brought to me, which probably proceeds from the sensitive watchfulness of others on such subjects, that you are engaged in cultivating a political interest at Falmouth. As the matter has been mentioned to me, however, I should not act fairly by you were I not to give you a caution, that, in the event of your having such views, they would be considered by the Admiralty utterly incompatible with your present appointment, which cannot be held with a seat in Parliament."990bonâ fideSir C. Adam
989 was somewhat surprised at the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, because, if he did not prove, in a few minutes, that that explanation was totally devoid of what it ought to contain, he meant to say, totally inconsistent with facts, he was very much mistaken. The right hon. Gentleman had stated what was true to the letter, that Sir James Gordon had been removed from the situation of superintendent of Chatham Dock-yard. But mark why. Sir James Gordon was appointed in 1832 to the situation by the right hon. Baronet. He (Sir C. Adam) could use stronger terms of eulogium on the conduct of that gallant Officer than those used by the right hon. Gentleman. He would employ them now. As far as he (Sir C. Adam) was concerned, and as far as his noble Friend at the head of the Admiralty was concerned, they were per-
989Sir C. Adam
: Where does that rule appear?Sir J. Graham
 would proceed, under the Speaker's permission, to re-state what he had said the other night, and in which the hon. Gentleman opposite had misunderstood him. He had stated then, and he stated now, that Sir James Gordon, having; the situation of superintendent of Chatham Dock-yard, was compelled by her Majesty's Government to relinquish that situation; that Captain Clavell had been moved from Falmouth to fill it; and that Captain Plumridge had replaced Captain Clavell at Falmouth, shortly before the election for that place. He had stated further, that Captain Clavell still retained his situation at Falmouth. His next position was, that Lord Clarence Paget, having stood for Southampton, had, since the election, been appointed to the Howe—an appointment which could not take place, under any circumstance, without the sanction of the Admiralty.Sir James Graham
988 said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down was perfectly aware that the rules of the House prevented him from replying to him. He was strictly limited to explanation. He, therefore, told the hon. Member that his original statement he would now repeat. It was, that at no period in the history of this country had naval patronage been prostituted to political purposes to the same extent that it had been within the last five years. He was but in explanation. He had stated, and he now repeated the statement, that there was no officer who stood a contest at the last election, above the rank of lieutenant, who was not now in full pay, or in the enjoyment of some civil situation. He illustrated that by the cases he had mentioned. He mentioned especially the case of Captain Plumridge. He was under the correction of the Speaker. The first moment that right hon. Gentlemen intimated to him that he was exceeding the strict bounds of explanation, he should resume his place. He had stated that Captain Plumridge was one of the officers who fell within the category. When he stated that, some Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House said that Captain Plumridge was on full pay before the general election. He then said he would explain the special circumstances of the case, and before he sat down he gave that explanation. To that explanation he
988Sir James Graham
*104910481047because"I have never taunted the noble Lord with selecting Roman Catholics for such appointments. I defy him to produce the instance in which I have sought thus to limit him in the exercise of his patronage.""As the law has decreed a civil equality to all classes in Ireland, without reference to religious distinctions, the Crown ought not, by the interposition of its prerogative, to create practically a difference which the law does not recognise. I think the Crown ought to act on the principle of the law, and not make the religious opinions entertained by any man the ground of disqualification for the exercise of civil functions."10461045104410431042"It gives me great pain to think that you disapprove of anything I have done. I was surprised to see the manner in which the few words which I uttered upon the Corn-laws were taken up by the London press. If I had had any suspicion that my words would have been noticed at all, I should have made it distinctly understood that I was expressing my own, and my own sentiments only, but it never occurred to me that such an explanation was necessary. I said generally, that my opinion might put me in opposition to the Conserva-
1042"I have received your letter, which I was unable to answer before, from incessant toil.104110401039"Did not you support the Poor-law?" (This was my answer.) "There is no question of public concern from which I wish to shrink; and I tell you frankly that I did support the Poor-law; and further than that, I admit that my opinion of its leading enactments and provisions is not changed. I did not support it for the purpose of making a reduction in the amount of the rates, which, in my opinion, is one of the smallest parts of the advantage derived from the measure; but because I saw the moral and social condition of the poor gradually lowered by the operation of the old Poor-law; and I wanted by an approved system to elevate their character and improve their comforts. I wanted to see them raised from the dependent situation of supporting themselves by alms derived from the workhouse to a respectable station, earning their livelihood by their own exertions. These are the grounds on which I supported the bill. I did it out of real friendship for the poor; being convinced that it would secure their permanent interest and improve their condition. If, however, any of its enactments are harsh, I would have them revised and altered. I will not try to throw odium on others by declaring myself hostile to what I have supported. I believe the ultimate operation of that bill will be to raise the character and elevate the position of the poor in. the social scale. Objectionable enactments I shall be glad to reconsider, and make any re-
103910381037103610351034"That they were received very courteously, but very cautiously; that Mr. Feargus O'Connor complimented the Congress on being composed of men of high intellect; and he thought the address one which should be answered;
10341033Habeas Corpusl.1032l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.1031l.,l.l.,l.,l.,1030Non adeo omnino capta ac deserta viderer.Luderet Æneas, qui te tantum ore referretAnti fugam soboles, si quis mihi parvulus ŒulaSaltem si qua mihi de te suscepta fuissetExcepi, et regni demens in parte locavi.Nusquam tuta fides! ejectum littore, egentemNusquam tuta fides!1029arcana imperii,1028l.Macaulay.10271026"These are heavy charges; but we fear the worst remains to be urged against the conduct of this eminent person. No man felt more strongly on the subject of the African slave trade than he. His speeches against it were the finest of his noble orations. Yet did he continue for eighteen years of his life suffering any one of his colleagues, nay of his underlings of office, to vote against the question of abolition if they thought fit. His conduct on the slave trade leaves a dark shade resting upon his reputation—a shade which few would take to be on the first of orators and greatest of ministers.""On such grounds Mr. Fox and Lord North succeeded in overturning the Ministry, and took their places, which they held for a few months, when the King dismissed them, amidst the all but universal joy of the country, men of all ranks and parties, and sects, joining in one feeling of disgust at the factious propensities in which the unnatural alliance was begotten—and apprehending from it, as Mr. Wilberforce remarked, 'a progeny stamped with' the features of both parents—the violence of the one party and the corruption of the other.'"10251024"I am sure I do not know what is the best Ministry, but this I do know, that unquestionably the worst Ministry is that which does not possess sufficient of the confidence of Parliament and the country to carry those measures which it may think necessary for the public service.""I know not which may be the best, but the worst I consider to be a monarchy which does not possess the full power and prerogatives of a monarchy."1023"We cannot," said the noble Lord, "calculate on that support which is necessary for the settlement of the affairs of Canada. Therefore, in continuing in the administration of affairs, not hiving, as we think we have not, a sufficient degree of confidence and support to carry on those affairs efficiently in this House, we should be exposing to jeopardy the colonial empire of this country, many of our colonies being, I will not say in a state of hazard, but in a state of uncertainty, concerning which questions of considerable importance are pending. After the vote of last night, I do not think we are entitled to say, that upon the great and important affairs of the colonies, upon which Government is obliged to come to a decision, we have such support and such confidence in this House as will enable us sufficiently to carry on the public business.""It seems to me that there is no option but to give up the bill which we thought it our duty to bring forward. It is then a question whether, having brought forward a bill of that importance, we shall leave the state of affairs in Jamaica, in the West Indian colonies, and in our colonies generally, in that state in which the Ministers of the Crown ought not to be content to leave them. It is obvious that in Jamaica the authority of the Crown will be greatly weakened by a vote of the House of Commons, giving, in effect and in impression, support to the contumacy, as I must call it, of the House of Assembly against the proposition of the Ministers of the Crown."bonâ fide102210211020"With respect to the internal state of the country, we leave it in improved circumstances—trade in a sound and healthy condition—the manufacturers generally employed public credit improved, and all interests in a better condition, with one single exception—agriculture; and even the depression of that interest less affecting the tenantry than the landlord, through the reduction of rents. Political and trades' unions have disappeared. We have exerted the ordinary powers of the law for their suppression, and by administering it with a firm hand, the result has been complete success."10191018**: I am very confident that there is no Gentleman present, however weary he may be of this protracted discussion, that will not admit, that, considering the nature of the motion, and considering the position in which I stand, I have no alternative but to solicit the indulgence of the House. I am confident, moreover, that if I must vindicate myself from some accusations, and must detail my opinions upon many important matters, considering the prominent part which I personally have been made to occupy throughout this debate, that I shall not be charged with any silly vanity, or presumptuous egotism. Two demands have been made by the opposite side in the course of this discussion, the one, that he who is about to give his vote of want of confidence in the Government, should specify the grounds upon which that vote is given, the other, that those who from their position may be regarded as the pro-
104910481047because"I have never taunted the noble Lord with selecting Roman Catholics for such appointments. I defy him to produce the instance in which I have sought thus to limit him in the exercise of his patronage.""As the law has decreed a civil equality to all classes in Ireland, without reference to religious distinctions, the Crown ought not, by the interposition of its prerogative, to create practically a difference which the law does not recognise. I think the Crown ought to act on the principle of the law, and not make the religious opinions entertained by any man the ground of disqualification for the exercise of civil functions."10461045104410431042"It gives me great pain to think that you disapprove of anything I have done. I was surprised to see the manner in which the few words which I uttered upon the Corn-laws were taken up by the London press. If I had had any suspicion that my words would have been noticed at all, I should have made it distinctly understood that I was expressing my own, and my own sentiments only, but it never occurred to me that such an explanation was necessary. I said generally, that my opinion might put me in opposition to the Conserva-
1042"I have received your letter, which I was unable to answer before, from incessant toil.104110401039"Did not you support the Poor-law?" (This was my answer.) "There is no question of public concern from which I wish to shrink; and I tell you frankly that I did support the Poor-law; and further than that, I admit that my opinion of its leading enactments and provisions is not changed. I did not support it for the purpose of making a reduction in the amount of the rates, which, in my opinion, is one of the smallest parts of the advantage derived from the measure; but because I saw the moral and social condition of the poor gradually lowered by the operation of the old Poor-law; and I wanted by an approved system to elevate their character and improve their comforts. I wanted to see them raised from the dependent situation of supporting themselves by alms derived from the workhouse to a respectable station, earning their livelihood by their own exertions. These are the grounds on which I supported the bill. I did it out of real friendship for the poor; being convinced that it would secure their permanent interest and improve their condition. If, however, any of its enactments are harsh, I would have them revised and altered. I will not try to throw odium on others by declaring myself hostile to what I have supported. I believe the ultimate operation of that bill will be to raise the character and elevate the position of the poor in. the social scale. Objectionable enactments I shall be glad to reconsider, and make any re-
103910381037103610351034"That they were received very courteously, but very cautiously; that Mr. Feargus O'Connor complimented the Congress on being composed of men of high intellect; and he thought the address one which should be answered;
10341033Habeas Corpusl.1032l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.1031l.,l.l.,l.,l.,1030Non adeo omnino capta ac deserta viderer.Luderet Æneas, qui te tantum ore referretAnti fugam soboles, si quis mihi parvulus ŒulaSaltem si qua mihi de te suscepta fuissetExcepi, et regni demens in parte locavi.Nusquam tuta fides! ejectum littore, egentemNusquam tuta fides!1029arcana imperii,1028l.Macaulay.10271026"These are heavy charges; but we fear the worst remains to be urged against the conduct of this eminent person. No man felt more strongly on the subject of the African slave trade than he. His speeches against it were the finest of his noble orations. Yet did he continue for eighteen years of his life suffering any one of his colleagues, nay of his underlings of office, to vote against the question of abolition if they thought fit. His conduct on the slave trade leaves a dark shade resting upon his reputation—a shade which few would take to be on the first of orators and greatest of ministers.""On such grounds Mr. Fox and Lord North succeeded in overturning the Ministry, and took their places, which they held for a few months, when the King dismissed them, amidst the all but universal joy of the country, men of all ranks and parties, and sects, joining in one feeling of disgust at the factious propensities in which the unnatural alliance was begotten—and apprehending from it, as Mr. Wilberforce remarked, 'a progeny stamped with' the features of both parents—the violence of the one party and the corruption of the other.'"10251024"I am sure I do not know what is the best Ministry, but this I do know, that unquestionably the worst Ministry is that which does not possess sufficient of the confidence of Parliament and the country to carry those measures which it may think necessary for the public service.""I know not which may be the best, but the worst I consider to be a monarchy which does not possess the full power and prerogatives of a monarchy."1023"We cannot," said the noble Lord, "calculate on that support which is necessary for the settlement of the affairs of Canada. Therefore, in continuing in the administration of affairs, not hiving, as we think we have not, a sufficient degree of confidence and support to carry on those affairs efficiently in this House, we should be exposing to jeopardy the colonial empire of this country, many of our colonies being, I will not say in a state of hazard, but in a state of uncertainty, concerning which questions of considerable importance are pending. After the vote of last night, I do not think we are entitled to say, that upon the great and important affairs of the colonies, upon which Government is obliged to come to a decision, we have such support and such confidence in this House as will enable us sufficiently to carry on the public business.""It seems to me that there is no option but to give up the bill which we thought it our duty to bring forward. It is then a question whether, having brought forward a bill of that importance, we shall leave the state of affairs in Jamaica, in the West Indian colonies, and in our colonies generally, in that state in which the Ministers of the Crown ought not to be content to leave them. It is obvious that in Jamaica the authority of the Crown will be greatly weakened by a vote of the House of Commons, giving, in effect and in impression, support to the contumacy, as I must call it, of the House of Assembly against the proposition of the Ministers of the Crown."bonâ fide102210211020"With respect to the internal state of the country, we leave it in improved circumstances—trade in a sound and healthy condition—the manufacturers generally employed public credit improved, and all interests in a better condition, with one single exception—agriculture; and even the depression of that interest less affecting the tenantry than the landlord, through the reduction of rents. Political and trades' unions have disappeared. We have exerted the ordinary powers of the law for their suppression, and by administering it with a firm hand, the result has been complete success."10191018**Sir R. Peel
 rose, but gave way toSir R. Peel
960959958"In answer to the noble Lord's question, as to the course Government intend to take, I beg to state the Government intend to watch the proceedings of those meetings, but I know of no power to prevent those meetings, provided their object is legal. We are all aware that large public meetings not legally convened sometimes take place in England. There have been very great Anti-poor-law meetings, and though some inconvenience has been occasioned at those meetings, yet so long as we live under the British Constitution, there is no power to prevent the holding of meetings for legal purposes. I regret there should be meetings on the question of Tithes. I believe they have not been so frequent since I have been in office as before, and all that have been assembled, have passed off peaceably. This I can assure the noble Earl, on the part of the Government, that if it should be found those meetings are not held for the purpose of petitioning Parliament, but for intimidation, every possible means of precaution and intervention will be employed."957Jackson:956"It is not people of high station we seek after. If they come, we shall be most happy to receive them, and we are ready to unite with them, but it is to the bone and sinew and the strength and unanimity of the people of Ireland, emphatically so called, that we look for support.""Notwithstanding the apparently awful odds in this country, we have, thank God, the moral energy, as well as the necessary accompaniments of sinew and bone, on our side."955"I would here suggest a question to my right hon. Friend; I would say, when you have placed the Roman Catholic and Protestants on an equality in point of law, do you mean to admit them to an equality in the enjoyment of office? and if you do, you will see the Roman Catholics and Protestants administering, equally, the affairs of a Protestant State. If you do not mean to look forward to this state of things, and merely intend to give the Roman Catholics nominal equality, I say that that practical exclusion from office will be far more galling to them than any disability under which they now labour, because it will be an exclusion on personal grounds."954primâ facie953J. Graham952951950949948947"Both parties in Ireland, Roman Catholics as well as Protestants, are dissatisfied with the conduct of the present Government. The only persons who are not displeased with it are the dependents on the Castle of Dublin, who, I need hardly observe, constitute a very small portion of the people of Ireland. The conduct of the Irish Government has alarmed and disgusted the thinking portion of the people of Ireland. It is not now a question of Protestant ascendancy, but of Papist ascendancy. There appears to be a determination to rule the country according to the beck and nod of a particular party. It is a faction, and a set of political and religious demagogues who rule the Government of the country. Equal justice is not administered to both parties; the people are driven from their country. If the Government continues to pursue its present policy, all the respectable portion of the community will be expatriated. The Protestants feel that Government do not afford them sufficient protection to enable them to live with safety in the country. The population of Ireland is now armed, one part against the other, and they must soon come into collision; and the communications from the magistracy to the Government on these matters, receive no other answer than that of a contemptuous silence."946"Is a laughing-stock to the Catholics, and an object of aversion and disgust to all the Protestants. I do not think that there is a person of the least judgment in the country who would bestow on the Government his approbation of the conduct they have pursued during the last few months. I think the conduct pursued towards the magistrates of Ireland had been disgraceful to the Government, and has completely shaken the confidence of the respectable classes in the prudence of those at the head of affairs to preserve tranquillity.""Ireland is in truth without a government.""That during the New Poor-law, Ten Hour's Bill, and the Chartist agitation, Government have acted with that combined moderation and firmness which evidently becomes a conscientious Government. Their forbearance has been wise. We have seen demagogue after demagogue expire, and combination after combination break up amid the quarrels of its members and public scorn—we had the late National Convention as a proof of this. Had the Government been more disposed to punish, the Chartists would have been more malignant; but as it is, the Chartists orators have not dared to charge the Government with tyrannical conduct. Thus when Government has interfered it has carried public feeling entirely with it, which it would not have done, had it previously put down popular meetings, and enacted laws restrictive of liberty."945944Concordes animœ nunc et dum nocte prœmuntur,l.,l.943"I am not about to censure the course which the noble Lord has so manfully taken; a course, I think, the best adapted, looking at the difficulties with which this great question is surrounded in Ireland, to secure the peace of that country.""As far as the interests of Ministers is concerned, it would, probably, be better for them to leave it in the same as during the last three Sessions of Parliament, but the point to consider was, whether it was for the good of the people of Ireland so to leave it."942"That after the unsuccessful attempts of four successive years, it became our duty to do our best to terminate the agitation, collision,
942941Immense cheering from the Opposition which drowned the conclusion of the sentence.940Stanley939938937***960959958"In answer to the noble Lord's question, as to the course Government intend to take, I beg to state the Government intend to watch the proceedings of those meetings, but I know of no power to prevent those meetings, provided their object is legal. We are all aware that large public meetings not legally convened sometimes take place in England. There have been very great Anti-poor-law meetings, and though some inconvenience has been occasioned at those meetings, yet so long as we live under the British Constitution, there is no power to prevent the holding of meetings for legal purposes. I regret there should be meetings on the question of Tithes. I believe they have not been so frequent since I have been in office as before, and all that have been assembled, have passed off peaceably. This I can assure the noble Earl, on the part of the Government, that if it should be found those meetings are not held for the purpose of petitioning Parliament, but for intimidation, every possible means of precaution and intervention will be employed."957Jackson:956"It is not people of high station we seek after. If they come, we shall be most happy to receive them, and we are ready to unite with them, but it is to the bone and sinew and the strength and unanimity of the people of Ireland, emphatically so called, that we look for support.""Notwithstanding the apparently awful odds in this country, we have, thank God, the moral energy, as well as the necessary accompaniments of sinew and bone, on our side."955"I would here suggest a question to my right hon. Friend; I would say, when you have placed the Roman Catholic and Protestants on an equality in point of law, do you mean to admit them to an equality in the enjoyment of office? and if you do, you will see the Roman Catholics and Protestants administering, equally, the affairs of a Protestant State. If you do not mean to look forward to this state of things, and merely intend to give the Roman Catholics nominal equality, I say that that practical exclusion from office will be far more galling to them than any disability under which they now labour, because it will be an exclusion on personal grounds."954primâ facie953J. Graham952951950949948947"Both parties in Ireland, Roman Catholics as well as Protestants, are dissatisfied with the conduct of the present Government. The only persons who are not displeased with it are the dependents on the Castle of Dublin, who, I need hardly observe, constitute a very small portion of the people of Ireland. The conduct of the Irish Government has alarmed and disgusted the thinking portion of the people of Ireland. It is not now a question of Protestant ascendancy, but of Papist ascendancy. There appears to be a determination to rule the country according to the beck and nod of a particular party. It is a faction, and a set of political and religious demagogues who rule the Government of the country. Equal justice is not administered to both parties; the people are driven from their country. If the Government continues to pursue its present policy, all the respectable portion of the community will be expatriated. The Protestants feel that Government do not afford them sufficient protection to enable them to live with safety in the country. The population of Ireland is now armed, one part against the other, and they must soon come into collision; and the communications from the magistracy to the Government on these matters, receive no other answer than that of a contemptuous silence."946"Is a laughing-stock to the Catholics, and an object of aversion and disgust to all the Protestants. I do not think that there is a person of the least judgment in the country who would bestow on the Government his approbation of the conduct they have pursued during the last few months. I think the conduct pursued towards the magistrates of Ireland had been disgraceful to the Government, and has completely shaken the confidence of the respectable classes in the prudence of those at the head of affairs to preserve tranquillity.""Ireland is in truth without a government.""That during the New Poor-law, Ten Hour's Bill, and the Chartist agitation, Government have acted with that combined moderation and firmness which evidently becomes a conscientious Government. Their forbearance has been wise. We have seen demagogue after demagogue expire, and combination after combination break up amid the quarrels of its members and public scorn—we had the late National Convention as a proof of this. Had the Government been more disposed to punish, the Chartists would have been more malignant; but as it is, the Chartists orators have not dared to charge the Government with tyrannical conduct. Thus when Government has interfered it has carried public feeling entirely with it, which it would not have done, had it previously put down popular meetings, and enacted laws restrictive of liberty."945944Concordes animœ nunc et dum nocte prœmuntur,l.,l.943"I am not about to censure the course which the noble Lord has so manfully taken; a course, I think, the best adapted, looking at the difficulties with which this great question is surrounded in Ireland, to secure the peace of that country.""As far as the interests of Ministers is concerned, it would, probably, be better for them to leave it in the same as during the last three Sessions of Parliament, but the point to consider was, whether it was for the good of the people of Ireland so to leave it."942"That after the unsuccessful attempts of four successive years, it became our duty to do our best to terminate the agitation, collision,
942941Immense cheering from the Opposition which drowned the conclusion of the sentence.940Stanley939938937***Viscount Morpeth
 said, that he would accede to the proposition, if he were convinced that Mr. Thomas Burton Howard had been evading the authority of the House; but it might turn out that Mr. Howard had not received the order of the House,The Attorney General
 said, that in making the proposition he had merely discharged his duty, and that as the feeling of the House was against him, he would not press his motion to a division.Colonel Sibthorpe
1109l, after what the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth has said, I do not think it necessary to enter at length into the reasons upon which I object to the motion of the hon. and gallant officer. I agree perfectly with the right hon. Baronet that it is neither advantageous nor expedient for us to show anything like want of confidence or mistrust towards a person who is to be established so near the throne; and from his peculiar situation, there can, I think, be little doubt that he would soon become attached to the habits and character of this country, in which he has every prospect of being highly popular. The course now proposed by the hon. and gallant Member was not pursued in the case of Queen Adelaide, now on any former occasion; and Queen Adelaide, now conducts herself with the same virtue, propriety, and liberality which always distinguished her during the period she was Queen Consort. With respect to the Duchess of Kent, the proposition was made, but her Royal Highness was allowed to have her 30,0001109lLord J. Russell
 said, that he was not aware that any establishment had been fixed, or any person appointed. There might be one or two persons named, but the entire arrangements were in abeyance until his Serene Highness's pleasure was known, with whom alone the appointments rested, upon his arrival in England, when every thing connected with his establishment would be subject to his own inspection and approval.Lord John Russell
 moved, that the Attorney-general be excused until Easter.Lord J. Russell
 said, that it was to be understood by the House that the officer should continue to execute the order of the House.Lord John Russell
 expressed his concurrence with the suggestion of the noble Lord, provided it were known that Mr. Howard had been endeavouring to evade the order of the House.Lord John Russell
 said, that in his opinion it would be premature then to inquire from the hon. Member for Finsbury the course he meant to pursue. However, he hoped the hon. Member would take no steps in the matter without previously informing the House.Lord J. Russell
 said, that was the rule of the House. Leave of absence expired when they re-appeared.Lord J. Russell
 moved that Sir John Campbell be excused from serving upon election committees.Lord J. Russell
"C S. LEFEVKE, Speaker.""Pursuant to an Act passed in the 2d and 3d of her present Majesty, for the amendment of the jurisdiction for the trial of controverted elections, I hereby appoint Thomas Greene, Wm. Milnes, the O'Conor Don, W. Orde, E. Strutt, and J. Young, Esqrs., the members of the general committee for the trial of disputed elections during the present session. said—I beg to lay before the House my first warrant for the appointment of an election committee under the new Act."C S. LEFEVKE, Speaker.""Pursuant to an Act passed in the 2d and 3d of her present Majesty, for the amendment of the jurisdiction for the trial of controverted elections, I hereby appoint Thomas Greene, Wm. Milnes, the O'Conor Don, W. Orde, E. Strutt, and J. Young, Esqrs., the members of the general committee for the trial of disputed elections during the present session. The Speaker
"Provided, nevertheless, and be it enacted that, in case his Serene Highness Prince Albert of Saxe Coburg and Gotha shall survive her Majesty, such sum or sums as may be granted by Act of Parliament, by way of annuity, to his Serene Highness, during his natural life, shall altogether and wholly cease and determine, in case his Serene Highness shall reside for a less period than six months consecutively in each year, within the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, or shall ally himself in marriage with any foreign princess or foreign person who shall not be a Protestant, or shall cease to profess and adhere to the Protestant religion as by law established within these realms."1106lll1105l said, that he was rejoiced to find that the motion which he had had the honour to make some days ago, on the annuity of 30.000"Provided, nevertheless, and be it enacted that, in case his Serene Highness Prince Albert of Saxe Coburg and Gotha shall survive her Majesty, such sum or sums as may be granted by Act of Parliament, by way of annuity, to his Serene Highness, during his natural life, shall altogether and wholly cease and determine, in case his Serene Highness shall reside for a less period than six months consecutively in each year, within the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, or shall ally himself in marriage with any foreign princess or foreign person who shall not be a Protestant, or shall cease to profess and adhere to the Protestant religion as by law established within these realms."1106lll1105lColonel Sibthorp
11191118dslHear, hear. said, that the question now before the House, was a question of privilege, affecting as much the interests of the people of England as the rights of their representatives in that House; and if these privileges were not maintained, the House would abdicate its functions, and prove themselves unworthy of the trust that had been confided to them. ["11191118dslHear, hear.Mr. Baines
1159InterruptionWilde rose, but was interrupted by cries of "Adjourn." He wished to say a word in reply to his hon. and learned Friend, who had distinctly said that they ought to keep the sheriffs in prison until they had paid the money back to Mr. Hansard, and that by adjournments instead of prorogations of Parliament, their imprisonment might be made perpetual. They should then either make up their minds to keep them in custody for ever, or to let I hem go at once. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said, suppose that the sheriffs were actually to obey the orders of the House, what security would they require from them? He had stated that they might be attached by the Court of Queen's Bench, and that the power of the House might be exerted in reaction by committal. By committal of whom he would ask? Of the Judges? [Mr. Sergeant 1159InterruptionWildeSir E. Sugden
 expressed his intention of giving to the motion his decided opposition. Was the evidence sufficient to show that Mr. Howard had evaded the order of the House? The issuing of the warrant would be both oppressive and premature.Sir E. Sugden
 said, that he was willing to postpone his motion, and allow his hon. Friend to proceed with the motion that had been referred to by his right hon. Friend.Sir E. Sugden
1099 thought this question one of great importance. He admitted, that the business of the Attorney-general might be a sufficient excuse for his not serving on committees. But there were many Members of that House who were practising at the bar, and if the Attorney-General employed in his private practice, the time which they were compelled to devote to the business of the House, that would give him an unfair advantage over them. His hon. Friend the Attorney-general had an opportunity of stating his objections to this bill whilst it was in preparation; and it had been suggested that Gentlemen practising at the bar should be exempted. But the Attorney-general was of opinion that they had no peculiar claims to be excused. It was his impression that if the House compelled practising barristers to attend upon election committees they would find it impossible to attend to their business at the bar, and the result would be that the Courts would not be able to sit. It might be said, that other barristers might be found who would do their duty in their absence, but he (Sir E. Sugden) thought there would be a great difficulty on that point. It would, therefore, be an advantage, not to the bar, but to the public generally, to excuse members of the
1099Sir E. Sugden
 wished to know what was the precise course which the hon. Member for Finsbury, as coroner, intended to pursue?Sir E. Sugden
 said, that it would be wrong in the House to pledge itself to any definite course of proceeding until the document was formally laid before it.Mr. Kelly
 believed that the object of Mr. Howard was evidently to evade the order, and the object of his wife and son was, to mislead the messenger of the House. For that reason, he saw no reason why the wife and the son should not appear at the bar, to account for their conduct in misleading the messenger, and not to give evidence against Mr. Howard.Mr. F. French
11111110 said, that he had to claim the indulgence of the House in bringing forward a motion with respect to which he felt considerable anxiety. In calling the attention of the House to the subject he was about to submit to them, it was by no means his intention to enter into any discussion of the question of privilege which had been already so much before them. What he desired to do on the present occasion was, to call upon the House to consider the peculiar position in which the sheriffs were placed, and the ground on which a majority of the House had agreed to the commitment of those
11111110Mr. Darby
 concurred with his learned Friend, and considered that the House could not be supposed to have any cognizance of the matter until the documents were produced and laid upon the table. Then, and then only, could any steps be taken.Mr. Goulburn
1103 believed, from all that had taken place, that Mr. Howard's object was to evade the notice, and the only question
1103Mr. Hume
 said, that the House ought to present an address to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty would be pleased to offer a reward for the apprehension of Mr. Thomas Burton Howard. Since he (Mr. Hume) had entered the House, he found that an attachment had been issued against the sheriffs, in the name of Mr. Thomas Burton Howard, to compel them to pay the money over to Mr. Stockdale, and he had actually seen the warrant for the attachment. It was imperative that the House should come to some definite conclusion upon the subject, in order that they might not become a laughing-stock to the public.Mr. Hume
 thought that it would be a more convenient course if, at present, the names of hon. Members claiming exemption should only be set down, and that the objection should be taken to-morrow.Mr. Greene
 declined giving an answer until he had consulted with his colleague.Mr. Wakley
 stated, that a short time before, he had been called out to the lobby of the House, and in his official character, as coroner, had been served with a notice, importing to come from Mr. Howard, for attaching the property of the sheriffs. His mind had been made up as to the course he ought and he would adopt, but that resolution he would confine to his own mind for the present until he consulted with his colleague. On Saturday last Mr. Howard had been seen in the streets by a friend of his, and if he was about town, and so active in his office as to send him a notice to attach the properly of the sheriffs, surely there could be no difficulty in serving him with the order of the House.Mr. Wakley
 said, that the family of Mr. Howard were evidently trifling with the House. There appeared to be no reason whatever to suppose that Mr. Howard was at Hull.Sir F. Trench
 said the Act was imperative, and the exemption must be decided upon at once.Sir G. Clerk
 begged to ask whether the excuse required was to be a permanent one in the case of the Attorney-general? As, if so, it would of course become a precedent for excusing every person holding the same office. Or was it on account of some peculiar or temporary pressure of public business the Attorney-general desired to be excused? If that was the case a limited time ought to be stated.Sir G. Clerk
 said, he solely asked the favour on account of the peculiarity of his present circumstances, and he did not ask it for the whole session, but if the House would grant it until Easter he should be satisfied.The Attorney-General
1098, on his name being called, said he was sorry to be under
1098The Attorney-General
auto-da-fe1114fi. fa11131112 rose with great reluctance to oppose this motion, but he felt bound to do so in the discharge of his public duty. If the privileges of the House had indeed been vindicated, as the hon. and learned Gentleman suggested, he would have been the first himself to have moved that these gentlemen should be discharged; but he felt that nothing as yet had been done which could be considered as an effective vindication of the privileges of the House; and he felt that if the motion were carried, those privileges would be lost
auto-da-fe1114fi. fa11131112The Attorney-General
1117Oh, and laughter.1116consuetudo Parliamentarialex1115 thought the privileges of the House had been sufficiently vindicated, and its object fully attained, by the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench, in which it recognized the right of the House to commit for a breach of privilege, and disclaimed the right of releasing the sheriffs from the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms. The right of the House having been established, it could not be necessary any longer to detain the sheriffs, of whose conduct every hon. Member must approve in his own mind. The hon. and learned Attorney-general had spoken lightly of the inconvenience to which the sheriffs were put, but the hon. and learned Gentleman would find it rather disagreeable to be confined to his chambers or even to his House; and more disagreeable still if he were confined, as was the case with the sheriffs, in a room no larger than the Table of the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman had also denied, that the sheriffs were sworn to obey the Queen's writs, but be (Sir R. Inglis) defied any one to read the oath which the sheriffs took, and then to say, that the sheriffs ought to obey the writs or orders of the House of Commons, or of any other body other than the Queen, If the sheriffs
1117Oh, and laughter.1116consuetudo Parliamentarialex1115Sir R. Inglis
 said, that, for his own part, he could see no grounds for expecting the return of any part of the annuity of King Leopold. He was as much entitled to that annuity as any individual in this country was to his hereditary possessions.Sir R. Inglis
 wished to ask a question of his right hon. Friend, the Member for Ripon. Seeing a notice of motion on the paper with respect to the sheriffs, he wished to ask whether his right hon. Friend would proceed with his motion, or give way to the motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for East Sussex?Sir R. Inglis
 would give his decided opposition to any motion which would operate to bring the wife and the son to give testimony against the husband and the father—and for that reason he trusted that the House would not sanction any such proceeding as would lead to such unnatural conduct.Sir R. Inglis
1104 rose, and said he wished to make inquiry of her Majesty's Government respecting the truth of a report which was pretty current, that the whole of the establishment of his Serene Highness Prince Albert had been already framed, and the various offieer-s appointed? Either that report was correct or incorrect. If correct, and it could be stated the arrangements were consistent with the al-
1104Sir R. Inglis
 said, that there was no evidence whatever to show that the notice bad been served upon the individual for whom it was intended, and before any severe measures were adopted, it was important that proof of the delivery should be previously established.Sir R. Inglis
 concurred, stating that the warrant would be still in force, and that the messenger should endeavour to exert himself, and use all possible despatch in the execution of his duty.Sir R. Peel
1100: I wish to ask if the leave granted to Members who are at present abroad is to expire on their return to England, should they do so before the leave expires? The Act says, that every Member who shall have leave of absence shall be excused attending during such leave. I think that instead of Lord Francis Egerton having leave of absence granted to him until the 10th of May, it should only be granted until his return to England. Granting leave to Members for a specific time was holding out an inducement to them not to take their seats until the time
1100Sir R. Peel
 wished to ask, if any of the Members for whom leave of absence had been obtained should hereafter appear in the House, before the period of leave had expired, whether they would not then be liable to serve on committees?Sir R. Peel
: I am decidedly opposed to exempting the Gentlemen of the bar from sitting on committees. If we compelled Gentlemen of the bar to become Members of this House, I should then undoubtedly feel greatly disposed to grant them an exemption; but as they have the option of coming into the House or staying out of it as they please, I think they are bound to serve on committees as well as other Members. I believe it will be very easy to find other Gentlemen of the bar to supply in the Courts the places of those engaged upon committees. With respect to the present case, I am very sorry for the necessity that causes the application to be made; but I cannot consent to the understanding that the Attorney-general is always to be exempt, and, therefore, if the exemption is granted on the present occasion, I submit that the special grounds that render it necessary should be stated, and that when those grounds cease, the exemption should also cease, and that the Attorney-general be then called upon to serve. I should be sorry to establish the precedent under which future Attorney-generals should be excused; and my support of the present motion must, therefore, depend on the specific grounds stated, being, in my mind, sufficient to warrant the exemption.Sir R. Peel
l1107llllll: I am perfectly satisfied of the purity of the motives which have actuated my hon. and gallant Friend in bringing forward his present motion, and I think, moreover, that it is consistent with the most perfect respect and loyalty to the Sovereign to take the course which my hon. and gallant Friend has adopted, but at the same time I am bound to say, that I for one, cannot support his motion. Sir, I cordially supported the proposition of my hon. and gallant Friend for reducing the grant to Prince Albert from 50,000l1107llllllSir R. Peel
 said, that the regular course would be, to have those who gave that information to the messenger on which he had acted, brought to the bar and examined. If in the course of the examination it should appear that Mr. Howard had been in town on Saturday last, then the House would have firm grounds upon which to direct a warrant to be issued.Sir R. Peel
115811571156ll1155115411531152non est inventusnulla bonaOh, oh !11511150habeas corpus;11491148"That it was not reasonable, it was not de-rent to expect such a thing from the House of Commons, but that if such a case were to occur, the courts of law would do their duty."1147114611451144"The law and custom of Parliament had its origin and existence in one maxim, that all the privileges of the House of Commons should be discussed in that House only, and not elsewhere. It rested with Parliament to declare and vindicate its own privileges, and, therefore, the independence of both Houses was best maintained by keeping their privileges indefinite."W. Follett:1143"The constitution of the Government of this land is so adroitly tempered and compounded, that nothing can endanger it but destroying the equilibrium of power between one branch of the Legislature and another; if the independence of any one of the three branches were lost, or if it was to become subject to either one of the other two, this would soon end the constitution.''114211411140113911381137 begged to assure the House that he never addressed them upon this question but under very considerable anxiety, and under a feeling of deep responsibility. From the moment that his attention had been first addressed to the decision of the Court of Queen's Bench, he was so struck with the consequences of that decision that he did not anticipate that that House would be able to escape from a very serious difficulty. When the committee was appointed to take into consideration the proper course for the House to pursue in consequence of that decision, he certainly did not spare any diligence to inform his mind, by collecting materials for forming a correct decision. But feeling the deep importance of the question, and also feeling the infirmity of his own judgment, while at the same time he entertained the strongest opinion, he took all possible care that he should not offer to that committee any suggestions of his own, without taking the utmost pains to render those suggestions in some degree worthy of consideration. When, therefore, he had sketched the draft of a report, he sent it to his hon. and learned Friend who had just addressed the House, for whose judgment he, in common with all who knew him, entertained the greatest respect; he sent a copy also to his hon. and learned colleague the Attorney-general; and he sent a third copy to his hon. and learned Friend
115811571156ll1155115411531152non est inventusnulla bonaOh, oh !11511150habeas corpus;11491148"That it was not reasonable, it was not de-rent to expect such a thing from the House of Commons, but that if such a case were to occur, the courts of law would do their duty."1147114611451144"The law and custom of Parliament had its origin and existence in one maxim, that all the privileges of the House of Commons should be discussed in that House only, and not elsewhere. It rested with Parliament to declare and vindicate its own privileges, and, therefore, the independence of both Houses was best maintained by keeping their privileges indefinite."W. Follett:1143"The constitution of the Government of this land is so adroitly tempered and compounded, that nothing can endanger it but destroying the equilibrium of power between one branch of the Legislature and another; if the independence of any one of the three branches were lost, or if it was to become subject to either one of the other two, this would soon end the constitution.''114211411140113911381137The Solicitor-General
11361135No, no.11341133113211311130habeas corpus1129112811271126112511241123112211211120 wished to take the opportunity of making some observations to the House on this question, especially after the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-general, because he thought that that speech pointed to no termination of these proceedings. He must say, that he was extremely anxious, and he thought that every one who wished well to the character and dignity of the House must be anxious, to see some mode adopted of terminating these proceedings. He did not at all venture to hope, that any advice which he could give the House would be of the slightest service, in the difficult and embarrassing position in which it was placed. But he did think, and he thought every Member of the House must feel, that these proceedings had now come into a situation of such difficulty, that it was actually incumbent on them to consider, calmly, dispassionately, and not in the heated way in which it had been sometimes done, what course they ought to take, not only with regard to the termination of these proceedings, and the discharge of the sheriffs, but with regard to the future proceedings in those actions which had been commenced, or were threatened, against the officers and servants of the House. If it should turn out, that the result of those proceedings was, that they had not power effectually to stop actions brought against the officers and servants of the House, he could not think, that the House would lose character or dignity by adopting a different course. After what had just fallen from his hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford, and from his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-general, and having had no opportunity of expressing his opinion before, he hoped he might be allowed, not to enter into an examination of cases or authorities of which the House might be wearied, but to state the views which he entertained upon the power of publication claimed by the House, and which had given rise to these discussions, and the broad distinction which presented itself to his mind between that power and right which he believed the House possessed of communicating to the
11361135No, no.11341133113211311130habeas corpus1129112811271126112511241123112211211120Sir W. Follett
1102 considered that it was necessary to fix the precise course to be adopted. If he did not mistake, not an order but a warrant from the Speaker had been issued. Though the House did not possess strict legal evidence that the
1102Viscount Howick
 stated that a messenger from the House was at Mr. Burton Howard's, but he could not be found, and his wife said, that he was in the country.The Deputy-Sergeant-at-Arms
 considered, that, it would be extremely inconvenient to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. and learned Member for Ripon, because, if it were held to be technically necessary to serve these documents at the house of Mr. Howard, it would, in point of fact, be overthrowing the doctrine laid down by the right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire, that every person was bound to be aware of the votes of that House.Mr. O'Connell
 was sure the proposer of the motion before the House would not wish that motion to be the cause of a practical delusion, and he would therefore beg to suggest that its terms should be altered. When a committee was moved for to inquire into the general causes of the discontent which prevailed, expectations would be raised which would be disappointed if the inquiry was limited. He believed that it was the intelligence, not the ignorance, of the people, which was the cause of the discontent; and if relief were denied, the House ought to be ready to prove that there was no cause for discontent, and that the laws were equal and good, and were properly administered.Mr. Villiers
 moved for leave to bring in a bill to extend to the British colonies in the West Indies, the act 5 and 6 William 4th, for regulating the carriage of passengers in merchant vessels.Mr. V. Smith
 had voted before with the learned Sergeant, and saw no reason why he should not do so again; but a considerable impression had been made upon him by the observations which he had heard, and under all the circumstances, he thought it would be better for the hon. and learned Gentleman to accede to the proposition for a committee, where the objections could be more fully considered.Mr. O'Connell
 should support the proposition for referring the whole question of copyright to the consideration of a select committee up stairs, as the only means by which it could be justly settled.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, he now understood that the committee were to inquire into everything.Lord G. Somerset
 asked whether the committee were to have the power of inquiring into the causes of the disturbances in Monmouth? Did the noble Lord conceive any committee so appointed as this, could be conducted without involving inquiry into political matters? He should be glad to have a committee with a definite object, civil, political, or economical; but he objected to a committee so appointed that some members might object to the introduction of political subjects, and others might wish them to be introduced.Lord G. Somerset
 said, it was not at all impossible for the committee to inquire into the condition of the mining districts without going into political matters. If the noble Lord could suggest any more specific words, he was ready to agree to them.Lord John Russell
 said, his reason for objecting to the motion of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury was, that it would lead to inquiries into political grievances, and the suggestion of political remedies. As to the civil condition of the working classes, he had no objection to an inquiry, but he thought it not wise to institute inquiries into their political condition.Lord John Russell
12431242 confessed that his difficulty in regard to the present motion arose, in the first place, from the terms in which it was expressed; and in the second place, from the arguments of those who had supported it. As to an inquiry into many of the objects which had been alluded to, he felt, that as a responsible Minister of the Crown, he should not be justified in agreeing to that inquiry, as he could not see any remedy that could be proposed. If, however, an inquiry was instituted with the view of collecting facts relative to the state of the people in the manufacturing districts, such an inquiry might be productive of important results, and he should be inclined to agree to a motion for the appointment of a committee with that object. But such was not the object of the proposer of the present motion. The hon. Gentleman said, that the committee should enquire into the causes of the discontent prevailing amongst the masses of the working classes; and the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and other hon. Members said, that the committee should inquire also into the effects of the poor
12431242Lord J. Russell
12491248 said, there was a subject of very considerable importance on which he wished to take this opportunity of stating his opinions. He did not think it would be necessary for him to bring a motion regarding it regularly before the House, but the subject had engaged the attention of Parliament in the Session before last. He was speaking of the introduction of Hill Coolies into some of our colonies. Inquiries which he had made into the condition of some of that class who had been transferred to our colonies, led him to believe, that though in some of the estates of Demerara they had not materially suffered, yet on the whole the experiment in that colony had been unsuccessful, and considering the very great length of the voyage, the chance of their being without a knowledge of the country to which they were going, and the difficulty of carrying into execu
12491248Lord J. Russell
1247 said, the hon. Mem
1247Lord John Russell
1250 in explanation said, that it had not been his wish to call for any discussion on the subject at the present moment, but as it would be necessary to put in motion the prerogative of the Crown he thought that it would be desirable, that the House should be in
1250Lord J. Russell
 said, that after the report that had just been made by the Sergeant-at-Arms, and the fact that when the messenger went to the house of Mr. Howard he was informed that he was gone to Hull, he thought it hardly possible that, if Mr. Howard had been willing to obey the order of the House, he being an attorney and having an office in London, should not by this time have heard of it. The right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire, whom he did not then see in his place, had stated most correctly the constitutional doctrine as to the orders of the House, namely, that all persons were bound to be aware of them and to obey them. But one would not wish to press that doctrine in any case, where with no intention to evade it, the party might not be aware of the order having been given. He thought, however, that there was in this case sufficient to show that Mr. Howard wished to evade the order of the House, and therefore that there was sufficient to entitle him to move the House to order that Mr. Howard do attend at the bar of this House, and that the Sergeant-at-Arms do take him into custody for that purpose.Lord John Russell
1220 thought the best method of wording the motion would be, "That Thomas Burton Howard be taken
1220Lord John Russell
 thought the power of the magistrates to refuse licences a very useful check. If the hon. Member could show any instances of a licence having been improperly refused, it ought to be inquired into. As far as his experience as a magistrate went, he had never known any application rejected, unless the case happened to be one of a very aggravated nature.Mr. Lockhart
1259 said, he felt bound to take the very earliest opportunity of opposing
1259Mr. Pringle
 said there was a precedent for the course now proposed, to be found in the journals for the 30th of March, 1831.The Speaker
1245 thought the original motion involved subjects too large to be grappled with by a select committee, but in the manufacturing towns there were many evils interfering with the comforts of the poor, and the health of the inhabitants, particularly with regard to the state of the sewerage and the cleansing of the streets, which required legislative interference, and without which it was found impossible to put them in such a state as to conduce to the objects contemplated by his hon. Friend. It was also very desirable, but he did not know how it could be effected by Legislative enactments, to promote provident habits, and to induce them, when they were in full work, to make provision for those periodical returns of want of employment to which they were so frequently exposed. If, however, any suggestions could be made in a select committee to induce such habits as would effect this object, important public advantages would be derived from its labours. As to religious and
1245Mr. Baines
 suggested, as a milder course, that the House should come to a resolution that service of the order of the House at the house of Mr. Howard should be considered as good service on Mr. Howard. That was a mode of service sometimes adopted in the Courts of Law under similar circumstances. Allowing that to be a good service of the order of the House, in case Mr. Howard did not obey it, the Speaker would, of course, issue a general warrant against him.Sir E. Sugden
 declared his intention of voting for the motion of the noble Lord, on the grounds stated by the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge. He held that every one was bound to attend the summons of the House, to be examined at its bar. He had no doubt that Howard knew of their summons, and was purposely evading it.Mr. Shaw
1237 opposed the motion. It was too indefinite, he thought, to be productive of any beneficial results. Unhappily a great deal of delusion prevailed amongst the working classes throughout all parts of the United Kingdom; they
1237Mr. Lambton
 thought it was extremely difficult to deal with the statement made to the House by the noble Lord. If the noble Lord were to suppose, that the House had sanctioned his proposition, they would be placed in a very awkward situation. It would be more satisfactory, he thought, that the House, before expressing its opinion, should wait for the promulgation of the Order in Council, which it appeared to be the noble Lord's intention to issue. At the present moment he was not prepared to say, that the noble Lord was wrong in his arrangement, but he wished to be allowed to reserve his opinion to some future opportunity.Mr. Goulburn
1222 contended that if the House should acquiesce in the doctrines of his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, it would be prevented from exercising some of its most important functions in future. His hon. Friend the Member for Oxford had said that Mr. Howard had a right to judge for himself
1222Mr. Goulburn
 felt some difficulty as to the mode in which he should act. He approved of the suggestion thrown out by the noble Lord (Howick), and he must say that if the measure of the hon. and learned Gentleman was not greatly altered it might be productive of mischief. Still there would be something ungracious in the House refusing to grant leave for the introduction of the bill.Mr. Labouchere
1256 disputed the proposition of the learned Sergeant (Talfourd), that an invasion of copyright in perpetuity was an invasion of private property. Literary property was private property only so long as the manuscript remained in the private possession of the author, but when it was published it became, to a certain extent public property. It was no injustice therefore to deprive the author of perpetual copyright in his works. The state gave to authors a certain protection for their works, and they were bound, on the other hand, as an equivalent for this protection, to see that the public had the advantage of having the work published at a reasonable rate. But the hon. and learned Sergeant denied altogether the argument drawn from public expediency. After such a denial, ought he to be allowed to bring in a bill upon such a principle? The proposed sixty years after the death of an author would, counting from the time of the publication, run on an average to a hundred. Could such an extension be justified? The bill of Anne, which allowed only fourteen years, required that the Archbishop of Canterbury and his assistants should limit the price at which works were published, so that the public might not be shut out from all advantage. That time at present was for twenty-five years, which of course would be much Monger if the authors were long-lived. Then, again, if an author amended his works before his death, as every man careful of his fame would be likely to do, there would be an additional extension of twenty-five years to the most correct edition. On these grounds he should feel
1256Mr. Warburton
 objected to the manner in which the hon. Member had shaped his motion, inasmuch as he suggested remedies, while he at the same time moved for a select Committee to inquire into the cause of these grievances. One of the great grounds of complaint among the people was the inequality of taxation, inasmuch as they were impressed with the belief that most of the articles of necessity consumed by them were more heavily taxed than the luxuries of the rich. Now, if they were mistaken on that point, it would be the duty of the Committee to undeceive the people, or to suggest a remedy where they were right. He was of opinion, that in the agricultural districts, there was a greater portion of distress prevalent than even in the towns. To his personal knowledge, there were large masses of the agricultural population living on potatoes. He did not know how the House could better employ its time than in considering the deep-seated and wide-spreading discontent that at present existed among the working classes. He hoped therefore it would receive the early and anxious attention of the House.Mr. Briscoe
1241ll considered that the best mode of improving the industrious classes was by educating them; and their condition was to be ameliorated by a reduction of taxation. He considered it of the highest importance that the people should be furnished far more than they were with the means of education, for much of the evils in their condition arose from intemperance. If they were better instructed, and if they were temperate in their habits, it could not be doubted that they would have many comforts which they did not now enjoy. He could not but remark on the enormous increase of intemperance which had recently taken place. He believed that a people were much more taxed by their vices than by the Government. Fifty millions annually were sunk—lost— in the crime of intemperance. How soon could the people attain comfort and content, would they but discard the habits of intemperance. Whereas the consumption of ardent spirits was dreadfully on the increase. It had augmented from 9,030,0001241llMr. Brotherton
 said, it should be understood whether the inquiry was to be into the civil or political condition of the people. The noble Lord had better allow no committee at all than a partial inquiry.Mr. Hume
 asked whether it were the intention of the noble Lord that the committee should inquire into the price of provisions, and the Corn laws?Mr. Hume
12391238 agreed that a subject so vast and important ought to have been introduced to the House by her Majesty's Government, for he did not think that any person unconnected with the Government would be able to bring before the House at once, in a condensed form, the information which it was desirable to obtain. As to the motion before the House, he thought that the hon. Member for Durham must think this a sufficient ground for inquiry. The hon. Member had no doubt read her Majesty's Speech, in which her Majesty stated that she could not see, without deep concern, that a spirit of insubordination and disobedience to the law had begun to manifest itself, and had broken out into open violence. Her Majesty further stated, that the commercial embarrassments which had taken place in this and other countries were subjecting our manufacturing districts to severe distress. He thought, then, that they ought to inquire into the causes of the discontent and distress that prevailed. Would the hon. Member for Durham say, that, after the paragraph in her Majesty's Speech to which he had now called his attention, the House would do their duty unless they inquired into the causes of this distress?
12391238Mr. Hume
 seconded the amendment. He said it was twenty-one years since any inquiry had taken place on the subject. Any man who read the report would be convinced that the opinion of the committee was against any alteration of the law; and he therefore submitted, after the contests they had had, if the learned Sergeant were so satisfied, he could make out an overwhelming case (which he had not done) in favour of his bill, he could have no objection to the appointment of a Committee. He was bound to state that the communications he had had, and the opinions he had seen since last year, proved at least that there was a great diversity of opinion. His own opinion was well known. All, therefore, he should say was, that in the midst of so much difficulty, with such difference of opinion, and on a question which was of so very much importance, the matter should be examined in committee. It would not take long, and if the learned Sergeant would not submit to an inquiry, he must submit to opposition, as he had stated on a former occasion. His objection to the bill was, that it would make books dear. He would, therefore, submit to the hon. Gentleman, that it would be better for him to yield on this matter with a good grace. He cared not who formed the committee, and he would rest the whole proceedings with it, because, in his opinion, it was impossible to make out a case for the bill. He should, therefore, second the amendment.Mr. Hume
 thought, that the noble Lord should not have proposed a measure of so much importance, without giving the House an opportunity of discussing it.Mr. Hume
 wished to know whether Mr. B. Howard's son had been directed to attend? He understood from his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury that some further evidence would be laid before the House on that day, and it appeared to him to be trifling with the House.Mr. Hume
 could have wished that the House had before refrained from those speculative assertions of right which had led the House into its present embarrassment. He entered his humble, yet decided protest against the doctrine that this House was to place its resolutions on a level with the statutes of the realm, and that its votes were to have in point of law the same publicity as the statutes of the land, which were not complete until they had received the assent of the three estates of Parliament.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
1240 would by no means attempt to follow the hon. Member for Kilkenny through the desultory series of contentious and exciting, as well as irrelevant topics which he had thought proper to name. He wished the committee which had been proposed by the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, from motives so benevolent and laudable—he wished that committee to apply itself to objects of really practical utility. It had been truly stated that the working classes were not generally aware of the facilities given by recent acts for the establishment of friendly and saving-bank institutions, in a manner calculated to enable them to avail themselves easily and with effect of the salutary plan of depositing. Could the lower classes be induced to avail themselves more generally of such institutions, the result would be highly beneficial to the community, for the acquirement of property gave the possessor an immediate and powerful interest in maintaining allegiance to the laws. The allotment system was calculated to produce no small benefit to the labouring classes. As to the right of primogeniture, it was so inseparably associated not
1240Mr. Ingham
l1234llllllllll1233l1232123112301229122812271226122512241223 said, that in venturing to rise for the purpose of addressing the House upon this subject, he felt that it might be asked why he ventured to bring it forward. He felt, indeed, the necessity of claiming the indulgence of the House, but he assured them that he was acting under a deep conviction of the importance of the question. He was not about to enter into a discussion upon the subject of existing discontents, but he proposed to consider the causes of those discontents, which had prevailed more or less amidst a great proportion of our fellow countrymen, among the densely-peopled districts of the kingdom, for many years. He should first show, that such discontents had existed, and had continued for a very long time. In 1812, great dissatisfaction was exhibited in four of the midland counties of England, and at that time some people, who were called Luddites, broke into lawless outrages in parts of Lancashire, Yorkshire, and Cheshire. They went about armed, and presenting a
l1234llllllllll1233l1232123112301229122812271226122512241223Mr. Slaney
 was satisfied with the terms of the amendment.Mr. Slaney
 would withdraw his motion, and bring it forward in a different shape.Mr. Slaney
 said, in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the present law of Copyright, he did not think it necessary to detain the House with any observations in favour of a measure which had already been three times before that House, and three times sanctioned by its approval. Under these circumstances he thought it unlikely that any hon. Member would deem it necessary to oppose such a bill in that, its preliminary stage.Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
1255l.1254 trusted, that he should receive the sanction of the House in declining to be drawn into a discussion on the general principles of the law of copyright. He considered that the proposition made by the hon. Member for Finsbury was made only for the purpose of obstructing the progress of the measure, and he should certainly accept of no advice from him, or the parties with whom he acted, after the course which had been taken by them in the last Session of Parliament. There never was a case so weak, so nugatory, so trifling, made out for the House refusing to allow the introduction of a bill which had been laid three times on the Table of the House, as that which the hon. Member for Finsbury had presented. As to the committee of 1818, he himself had stated two long years ago,
1255l.1254Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
 said that, with all respect for those who had spoken against this measure, yet not having heard any suggestion but what showed that the arguments adduced against it were arguments upon its principle, and of unmitigated hostility, which would not be likely to be removed by any inquiry that might take place, and supported as he had been by those hon. Members who had assisted him in bringing forward this measure, he felt bound to divide the House on the subject, and he should most respectfully abide by its decision.Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
125312521251Hear, hear! said, the hon. and learned Sergeant had observed, that he did not deem it necessary to address any observations to them in moving for leave to bring in a bill such as he had stated, which had already been before the House for three sessions successively. Now, whatever might have been the opinion of that House of the bill in question, it had excited in the public mind abroad sentiments of no small alarm. The hon. and learned Gentleman had brought forward that measure with great eloquence indeed, but he should be permitted to say, that great as was that eloquence it was no argument in favour of the bill he proposed, nor had the hon. and learned Gentleman convinced him of the justice or necessity in any manner of interfering with the present law of copyright. What was it the hon. and learned Sergeant wanted to establish by that law? What was it he expected to do? Did he think thereby to benefit the cause of literature, to serve the community at large, or confer any advantage upon the authors generally? There had been two Parliamentary committees appointed upon this subject. One in the year 1813, and the other in the year 1818. The consequence of the first had been the introduction of the bill of 1814, which had added fourteen years to the term of the right of copyright. It had been previously only fourteen years; the new law had made it twenty-eight. He should be glad to know whether the hon. and learned Sergeant had taken the trouble to read the evidence taken before those committees. It would appear from his gesture of assent that he had read that evidence—["125312521251Hear, hear!Mr. Wakley
 was sorry that the noble Lord did not rise after the amendment. In the mining districts the people were in a state of commotion. In the agricultural districts they were in distress, but they were quiet; yet the object of the committee was to inquire into the mining and manufacturing districts, thus treating the agricultural population with neglect. Nothing could be more unjust than the amendment. If there was to be an inquiry into the condition of the labouring classes, it should embrace the labouring classes generally, and especially those who had shown most patience under suffering.Mr. Wakley
1244 thought the motion was of so extraordinary a character that the House would not have listened to its details for more than a very few minutes. He believed if a Committee was appointed in accordance with its terms, that Committee might sit for thirty years without coming to any practical or satisfactory result. He sat upon a Committee for two Sessions involving only one point included in the hon. Gentleman's motion—theworking of the Poor Laws—and without investigating the twentieth part of the subject, they made a report, which was not, and
1244Mr. Wakley
 moved for leave to bring in a bill to enable persons holding licences, to sell beer, spirits, and other exciseable liquors, to obtain a renewal of their licences from the excise in Scotland.Mr. Gillon
 said, that last year he had been prevented by indisposition from proceeding with the bill until so late a period as to render it impossible to pass it through this House and the other House of Parliament. The hon. Member opposite had entirely misrepresented the objects of the bill. It retained all those salutary provisions to which he had referred, and only went to relieve the wholesale and retail dealers in spirits from the hardship of being obliged every year to get a certificate of character from the magistrates before they could obtain a renewal of their licence from the Excise. To this they were exposed, even though they had conducted themselves in a manner consistent with the laws, and though no charge had been made against them. They were now subject to the caprice of magistrates, who, in frequent cases, used their powers for political purposes. The bill was to relieve the wholesale and retail dealers from such grievances.Mr. Gillon
1236l1235 felt great pleasure in seconding the motion of his hon. Friend. He was convinced that the adoption of some such course as that now proposed, would show to the working classes that that House was not indifferent to their condition, but sympathised with them, If an inquiry were resorted to, it
1236l1235Mr. W. Smith O'Brien
 had never, in his experience, seen the House of Commons in such a position. The hon. Member for Shrewsbury had brought forward a motion in a two-hours' speech, and the Government had not been prepared with any conclusive proposition on the subject. Any stranger who should have come into the House an hour ago, and tried to discover who were the Government Members, would be led to suppose they were the hon. Member for Kilkenny and those about him. The motion was of too vague and indefinite a nature, and such an inquiry should be superintended by the Government, which, in thus abdicating its functions, gave another decisive proof of its imbecility, which was felt from one end of the country to the other.Sir E. Knatchbull
 would not oppose the introduction of the bill, but lie would not pledge himself to take away the power of granting licences from the magistrates.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought the hon. Member had introduced too many subjects into his motion, which it would be impossible for any Committee to investigate, and he was, on that ground, inclined to vote against it. He should, therefore, move as an amendment, on the suggestion of the noble Lord, that a select Committee be appointed to inquire into the condition of the working classes in the populous manufacturing and mining districts.Sir H. Verney
 said, that it was unnecessary to enter into the speculative question whether the votes of the House ought to be considered as known by every subject in this land. It appeared by the evidence of their own messenger, that on Monday last a demand was made for Mr. Howard at his own house—that his wife stated that he had gone to Hull—that the messenger went to Hull—and that no tidings of Mr. Howard were to be collected at that place. Now, Mr. Howard was a London attorney; he had an office in London; he had clerks in London; he had a house in Norfolk-street; and considering the parties among whom he lived, it was impossible to pretend that he had not had ample notice of the order of the House, and if he had had such notice it was equally impossible to deny, that he was at this moment setting the order of the House at defiance. The order had been already left at Mr. Howard's dwelling-house. Could any man rise up and say that he believed Mr. Howard had not received notice of it? It was only requisite that the party should have due notice of the order. If he had that, and did not attend to it, surely it became the House, to take due notice of the contempt with which Mr. Howard treats it.The Attorney-General
 admitted that if to defeat the House of Commons were to defeat justice, Mr. Howard unquestionably was guilty of that offence. Unfortunately, however, the two things were not identical; and he thought that Mr. Howard was perfectly justified in removing himself to a distance from the tender mercies of the tyrannical majorities of the House of Commons. Mr. Howard was not a witness, but a party; he was not summoned as a witness; and he had a right to judge whether he ought to be summoned for such a purpose as that for which he was wanted.Sir R. Inglis
" Cheers." protested against the doctrine laid down by his right hon. Friend the Member for Montgomeryshire, on this subject. The noble Lord, taking up that line of argument, had stated, that every subject was bound to know the votes of the House of Commons. Why, within the last five-and-twenty years, the votes of the House were not delivered even to Members, till four or five days after they were passed? and yet, if every subject were bound to be cognizant of, nay, pay obedience to those notes, it mattered not when those votes were printed, or whether they were printed or not. The law required that every person should be cognizant of and pay obedience to the statutes of the realm, and why?—because in early times the statutes were proclaimed and published by the sheriffs at the market-cross on county days; and, in later times, have been printed by the King's Printer, and circulated through every court and session in the country, independently of the indirect publicity which all legislation necesssarily involves. No such publicity, however, had ever been given, neither was it yet given, to the votes and proceedings of the House. And therefore it was, that he held it to be an act of the grossest tyranny that the House should come to a vote at one o'clock on a Tuesday morning, and should hold that at nine o'clock of the same day, that vote was as well known to and as firmly binding upon, all her Majesty's subjects, as if it were an act of Parliament. [" Cheers."Sir B. Inglis
 said, that he would not deny the right of the hon. Gentleman to oppose the introduction of any Bill; but he did think that the hon. Gentlemen opposite were not dealing fairly or justly in the present instance. It was in the recollection of the House, that they had already given leave to four hon. Members that night to bring in Bills on different subjects, and on referring to their motions, as they stood upon the paper, he could not bring himself to think that the claim in any one of those cases, was equal to that involved in the motion of his hon. and learned Friend. That House had, on three former occasions, sanctioned the principle of this Bill, which could not be said of any of the four cases to which he had alluded, and therefore, without entering into any discussion of the merits of the question on the present occasion, he did trust, that the hon. Member for Finsbury, and his hon. Friend the Member for Bridport, would, if only from a feeling of courtesy to his hon. and learned Friend, not refuse their acquiescence in the motion for the introduction of this Bill.Sir R. Inglis
1221 said, that he should not give his vote in favour of this motion on the ground that the votes and proceedings of the House of Commons were presumed to be known by all the subjects of this realm. He did not think that there was any necessity for him to give an opinion on that question at present. If he had a conviction in his own mind that a person was throwing obstructions in the way of public
1221Sir R. Peel
1257 hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would acquiesce in the motion for a committee, as otherwise he should feel himself called upon to vote with the hon. Member for Finsbury, but not with a view to obstruct the bill. During the last two or three years, serious objections had been taken to the present position of copyright, and there was no doubt that the existing law called for alteration. The present system afforded the greatest protection to light and ephemeral compositions, whilst works of labour, research, and diligence, which could only win their way gradually into public favour and circulation, were not sufficiently protected. By canvassing the matter in
1257Viscount Howick
 would advise the hon. and learned Gentleman to take the opposite course to that recommended by the noble Lord, and not agree to refer the bill to a committee. It was evident that the objection of the hon. Member for Finsbury was to the principle, not the details of the bill, and no committee could meet either his objections or those of the hon. Member for Bridport.Lord Mahon
1268 said, that this bill would affect most materially a very important branch of our manufactures, and he said that any interference with trade on the part of the Legislature would be injurious, and without strong reason being shown, and until a full case had been made out, there ought to be no measure passed. The speeches which he had heard in favour of this bill convinced him how dangerous it was for persons, unconnected with trade, to introduce measures of that kind. The law at present in force had existed for several years; during that period the printing business had flourished; and no one acquainted with its wants and interests would recommend such an alteration of that law as was now proposed. The very enactments introduced by the hon. Member for Belfast were expressly excluded from a bill which had been introduced into the House in two successive sessions, by the representative of Manchester, Mr. P. Thomson, then President of the Board of Trade. That Gentleman was in a situation in which he could have ascertained whether such enactments were desired by persons connected with the trade, or would be advantageous to them; and if they were so, he surely would not have taken care to exclude them from the bill which he supported. It had been said that new patterns would be copied in eight days. If the hon. Gentleman had known anything about the law, or the practice of the trade, he would have known that this was impossible, without incurring the severest penalties. As the law now stood, the inventor of a pattern had a clear three months exclusive sale, and if that sale were infringed upon by any person, that party could instantly be stopped by an
1268Mr. William Williams
1271 said, that practical ex-
1271Mr. O'Connell
l.1273 said, he would second the amendment. He wished the House to understand distinctly, that the bill in its present shape would give an advantage
l.1273Mr. O'Connell
 had certainly expected, that the hon. Gentleman would have postponed the second reading of this bill also, for the purpose of giving those hon. Members who were acquainted with the practical working of the law, both in England and Ireland, an opportunity of judging whether it were a measure that was likely to be beneficial to the United Kingdom. His opinion was, that the bill in its present shape would be an injury to Ireland, rather than a benefit, inasmuch as it would interfere with and very much disturb the existing tenures and contracts in Ireland. It would be unwise and unjust to alter the settled law of property in that country, and to make it different from the law affecting similar property in England. By unsettling old analogies and introducing new ones, they would lay the foundation for a greater variance between the laws of the two countries, whereas they ought to do everything to assimilate them. If the hon. and learned Gentleman thought this a good bill, why did he not put in a clause to extend it to England? At all events, there ought to be some previous inquiry instituted before such an alteration was made in the law as this measure would effect. If, therefore, the hon. and learned Gentleman should press the second reading, he should move, that the bill be read a second time that day six months.Mr. D. R. Pigot
1272 said, that to the principle of the measure he should give his cordial adherence. So much did he approve of the measure, that he had himself
1272Mr. D. R. Pigot
ds.ld.s.l.1262l.l.1261 presented a petition from two short-hand writers, named Edward Morton and Francis N. Walsh, complaining of the monopoly of the Parliamentary and other business enjoyed by Mr. Gurney, from the double appointment of short-hand writer to the Houses of Lords and Commons, which he had held ever since the year 1803; and pointing out the injury arising from it to the profession, and to the public business, by excluding competition, and thus keeping down efficiency, and keeping up a high scale of charges. The petition stated, that in 1803 the business of Parliament was very small; that it had now increased to such an extent that two-thirds of it were done by short-hand writers, not in Mr. Gurney's own establishment, those persons receiving only such share of the business, and such proportion of the fees, as he thought proper to give them; that the number of persons skilled in the art of writing short-hand had also very much increased of late years, and that many of the gentlemen employed as Mr. Gurney's deputies were as competent in all respects as the members of his own establishment; but that he had, ever since his appointment, exercised the exclusive right of attending by himself or deputy all select and other committees, all examinations at the bar of the House, &c, so that for a period of thirty-seven years no other short-hand writer had been allowed to attend any committee, except as his deputy; the parties to private bills not being allowed to employ their own shorthand writer, even to take the speeches of counsel. It also stated, that Mr. Gurney
ds.ld.s.l.1262l.l.1261Mr. Maclean
1269 said, that undoubtedly the question was one of great importance to the manufacturing interests. In the first place, he begged to call the attention of the House to the existing law, and he must complain that the hon. Member in his statement had omitted mentioning it. The old law of the land was, that there was protection for three months to calico-printers and linen-printers alone, which could only be enforced by obtaining an injunction from the Court of Chancery. Last year Mr. P. Thomson brought in two bills extending the provisions of the old law to other fabrics. He proposed by one of those bills to give a protection of three years to those articles that were made out of metallic substances, but rendered it compulsory on the parties who wished to avail themselves of that extended period of protection to submit to a system of registration. Some of the manufacturers said it was not worth their while to incur the expense of registration, and therefore did not consent to the extended term under that condition. He (Mr. Labouchere) wished to point out to the House what evils they were likely to fall into if they protracted the period of protection, and at the same time did not compel them to adopt a system of registration. He certainly apprehended that it would be almost impossible to apply a system of that kind without a registration. It would, in fact, be establishing a restriction to one of the branches of our manufactures. Unless a system of registration
1269Mr. Labouchere
 thought if the House were put in possession of the different views that were entertained on the petition before the bill went into Committee, it would greatly facilitate their coming to a correct conclusion. He was happy to hear the observations that had been made as to the ill effects resulting to the public from the monopoly, and the interests of the various parties concerned ought to be attended to. He wished to know in what respect these finished patterns came from the inventor in a different way than printed works did. The right hon. Baronet opposite, in some observations he made when adverting to petitions placed in his hands, appeared to take some interest in the matter, and he hoped when the subject of granting a term of copyright for literary property came under discussion, they should be honoured with his presence, which he did not remember had been given on former occasions. He thought if the right hon. Baronet gave his attendance on a matter of minor consequence, such as calico printing, he would also give it to the greater matter of literary property, and if so, the House would be more likely to come to a just conclusion on the subject than otherwise.Mr. Warburton
 wished to suggest, whether joint-stock banks, giving a moderate rate of interest on deposits, would not work better than the savings' banks. If such banks were established on principles of undoubted security, they would supersede the necessity of savings' banks, and save the Government trouble, while they held out to the public, nearly equal advantages to the savings' banks.Mr. Warburton
1266126512641263 moved the second reading of the Copyright Designs Bill, which extended the copyright to designs upon woven fabrics from three months to twelve. It was not the object of the bill to introduce any new principle into the law, but simply to give efficiency to a principle which the existing law already recognized and professed to provide for, but which in the lapse of time had become utterly nugatory. The act which first proposed to secure to the inventors of original designs the profits of their own labours was passed in 1787, and limited the protection to two months. This Act was renewed from time to time, but at length, in 1794, it was made perpetual, and the term of protection extended to three months, at which point it had remained unaltered up to the present. But during the forty or fifty years that had intervened many circumstances had concurred to render that which was then an effectual protection, merely a nominal and a deceptive one; amongst which, as the most prominent, may be noticed the application of steam navigation, thereby placing the foreign market almost upon a par with the home as regards priority in design; and the
1266126512641263Mr. Emerson Tennent
 moved the second reading of the Ejectment and Replevin (Ireland) Bill.Mr. E. Tennent
 would lake the second reading of the bill now, on the understanding that it should at present proceed no further, but be referred to a select committee up stairs.Mr. E. Tennent
 moved the order of the day for the second reading of the Administration of Justice (Ireland) Bill, in order to postpone it.Mr. E. Tennent
1276 said, that the bill referred to by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, was passed while his right hon. Friend the Member for Cambridge University, held the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer. He entirely agreed with the hon. Member in thinking, that Parliament ought very narrowly to watch the operation of that
1276Mr. Herries
1275l.l.l.l.l.l.1274 said, he wished to lake that opportunity of calling the attention of the committee to an irregularity which had oc-cured in the financial accounts of the last year. The committee would recollect that the budget was not brought forward until a late period of the session, and not until after much remonstrance, inquiry, and entreaty. It was not brought forward until the 16th of July, and that was a much la-
1275l.l.l.l.l.l.1274Mr. Herries
 wished to ask whether, during the last year, a considerable amount of Exchequer bills, the deposits of the savings' banks had not been funded? He understood that from this source, three millions had been added to the funded debt of the country without the knowledge of Parliament, and therefore he should be glad to know if any such operation as he had described, had taken place during the last year.Mr. Hume
 could not help thinking, that such a proceeding was most irregular, and the House would fail in their duty, if they did not appoint a committee of inquiry on the subject. He called the attention of the House to a similar matter three years ago, and then stated, that no instance had ever before occurred, of a Chancellor of the Exchequer adding to the funded debt without the knowledge of Parliament. He believed, however, that the bill which authorised this proceeding, was brought in by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Harwich, and he was, therefore, glad to find that the right hon. Gentleman now disapproved of it. He certainly should reserve to himself the consideration as to how far he would be justified on some future occasion, in moving for a committee of inquiry on this subject.Mr. Hume
1277 said, he was pleased to hear the observations of the right hon. Gentle-
1277Mr. Hume
 said, the law in this respect was not yet settled in Ireland, and that very good reasons existed why it should be settled. The absence of legislation upon it in England was to be accounted for by the fact, that the same kind of tenure which existed in Ireland was but rare in England—namely, that of letting lands on leases for life renewable for ever. If a person would not pay his rent, whether he were a great and powerful man or not, he ought to be liable to ejectment. For his own part, he could not see why such a law should not be extended to England, and on that ground he quite agreed with his hon. and learned Friend, that the law of the two countries should be assimilated. He would not object to a postponement of the second reading of the bill for a short period.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 said, it was desirable to know, as the bill was of great importance, what were the views with which the hon. and learned Solicitor-general for Ireland regarded it.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
1267 rose for the purpose of supporting the motion of his hon. Friend. He would strongly recommend to her Majesty's Government the advantages of introducing a general and comprehensive
1267Mr. Mackinnon
l. moved as a resolution, "That a sum of 2,000,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said there had, but that he was not prepared to state the exact amount.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had better state at once to the Committee, that he had not been aware of the point to which the right hon. Gentleman referred, not having looked sufficiently into the matter. The arrangement alluded to was one which had been made by his noble Friend who had preceded him in office, and under such circumstances, he thought it would be more satisfactory if he were to defer his explanations to some Supply night after he had made the necessary and proper inquiries on the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. said, the right hon. Gentleman had undoubtedly raised a point of great difficulty, and one upon which it was anything but agreeable to him at that moment to enter. It appeared to him, that difficulty was likely to arise from their dealing with the money of the savings' banks. He was not precisely aware of the effect which had been produced by the conversion of Exchequer bills into stock, but he believed it had occasioned a considerable diminution in the amount of Exchequer bills. No doubt the facilities given to savings' banks, originated in the best motives, but, then, it was quite true, as had been stated, that great inconvenience was likely to arise from having such large sums demandable. The consequences of the operations alluded to, were a diminution of the unfunded debt, and from a document which he held in his hand, he could state the result of the last two years. At the beginning of 1839, the amount of the unfunded debt was 29,974,000l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not wish to take the extreme course recommended by the hon. Member for Coventry, but he thought that there were strong reasons why the House should weigh well any proposition which went to alter the law on a subject of this importance. If the period of protection were extended from three months to six months, it was possible, considering the facility of communication between this country and the continent, that the inventions thus protected might be copied by the Swiss and French printers, who would supply our markets, and thus, while we endeavoured to protect a few individuals, they themselves would suffer, and the national interests would be neglected. Instead of protecting a few, the measure might ruin a great many. It appeared to him that the question had not been generally taken up by the trade, and he did not think that there was any strong feeling among the calico printers on the subject, but at the same time he should not feel himself justified in hastily taking any steps to shut out enquiry, whether the protection now given mi"ht not be extended from three to six months. He therefore should not oppose the second reading of the bill.Mr. M. Phillips
 observed, that he had great doubts upon the subject to which the bill of the hon. Member referred. It might be very inconvenient to extend the protection already granted much farther, while at the same time the present period might be too limited; and then came the question whether, at the same time that the protection was extended, registration should also be required. He was afraid that there would be much difficulty in requiring registration of patterns so evanescent as these matters; and yet if registration were not required, he did not exactly see why the parties asking for protection for their inventions should be put on the same footing as other trades who could register. He was sorry that the House should be asked to legislate on subjects like the present without possessing sufficient practical information on the subject. He could not, for his own part, form a satisfactory opinion on the subject without inquiry. He should, however, certainly support the second reading of the bill, but at the same time he would not pledge himself to agree to all the details in the Committee.Sir R. Peel
 then appeared at the bar in the custody of the sergeant-at-arms.Mr. Howard
 —I am.Mr. Howard
 —It was a report of the inspectors of prisons.Mr. Howard
 hoped that the sheriffs would continue to do their duty, and that in pursuance of the line they had adopted, they would let Mr. Howard out of Newgate as soon as he was sent there.Mr. Jones
 wanted to know why Mr. Howard was sent to Newgate, whilst Mr. Stockdale was merely confined within the precincts of the House?Mr. D'Israeli
13361335 could not refrain from expressing his high gratification at the unanimity of the House on this very interesting occasion, and at the manner especially in which the right hon. Baronet had expressed himself in reference to the conduct of the British in India. It was not his intention to enter into any of the political questions which might be considered in connection with this expedition, but he wished to make a remark upon what had fallen from the right hon, Baronet in reference to Lord Auckland. The right hon. Gentleman had omitted all mention of a case of the highest importance—the case of Lord Minto—to whom, after the reduction of Java, the thanks of the House were awarded for the part which he had taken in superintending the military arrangements; nor was the right hon. Baronet correct in supposing that Lord Wellesley had only received the thanks of Parliament as Captain-general, since he also received the thanks of the House in connection with the taking of Seringapatam, when he did not act as Captain-general. He quite conceded to the right hon. Baronet the right, and he fully admitted the propriety, of reserving his opinion as to the general policy under which the expedition took place, till the results were known; but his own conviction was, that this great event would be found, in its results, highly conducive to the prosperous state of our finances in India, and that, as a measure of economy, it would be found not less deserving of praise than it confessedly was in a military point of view. He could hear witness to some of the circumstances to which his right hon. Friend had alluded. Among many peculiarities of our Indian empire there was no one more remarkable than this—that the people whom we governed there were a people whose estimate of our power sometimes far exceeded the truth, and sometimes fell far short of it.
13361335Mr. Mucaulay
 said, that his long and intimate friendship and near connection with his noble and gallant Friend under whose orders the army had acted would not allow him to give a silent vote. The right hon. Baronet opposite hesitated whether to include the noble Lord at the head of the Government of India in the vote of thanks, but it should be remembered, that it was by Lord Auckland that all the arrangements of this expedition were prepared, and in another place the highest approbation of those arrangments had been expressed by that great man who had so often led our armies to victory, and who had distinguished himself as a soldier beyond all other men. He could not but think Lord Auckland fully entitled to the thanks of Parliament. With regard to the noble and gallant Lord who had led forth our army in India to triumph, he had been in constant communication with that noble and gallant Lord, and, in his various communications, had learnt the many and great difficulties with which he had had to contend, and he could not express to the House in stronger terms what these difficulties had been, than by reading an extract he had received from Lord Keane, dated Candahar, June 26th. It was as follows:—Sir H. Vivian
 said that, with a view of saving the time of the House, he would take the liberty of putting a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies. He wished to know whether a rumour which prevailed was correct, that Mr. Pare had ceased to hold the office of superintendent registrar of the town of Birmingham.—Lord Ashley
 believed that this was the first time the House had shown an indisposition to hear the defence of an individual who had been openly assailed in the House.Mr. S. O'Brien
 said, that most of the highway-trusts through the country were insolvent. He thought that a county should be the smallest space that ought to be rated for the repair of those roads.Mr. Jones
 could assure the hon. Member for Bridport, that he had not said a word against Mr. Pare. He had merely said, hypothetically, that if Mr. Pare was guilty, the noble Lord should have dismissed him; and if not guilty, the noble Lord should have brought the whole force of the Government to support him.Lord Ashley
 said, that Mr. Pare having ceased to hold the office, he would not at present bring forward the motion of which he had given notice. He must be allowed to say, however, that if Mr. Pare were guilty, the Government ought to have passed sentence on his conduct, and if he were not guilty they ought to have supported him. He should take the liberty of bringing the whole subject under the notice of the House at an early period.Lord Ashley
 would state one fact which he thought would induce the hon. and gallant Member to postpone his motion. Before they came to any decision, they ought to be afforded an opportunity of seeing the effect of the present light; but sufficient notice had not been given to Mr. Gurney, to enable him to complete his arrangements. He hoped that sufficient time would be given to complete those arrangements before the House came to any decision. He could accomplish all those arrangements during the Easter recess. He was acquainted with Mr. Gurney, and he was able to state that he was a man of talent and industry, and he should hope that the experiment would be fairly tried.Lord Eliot
 opposed the motion. If the expense of repairing such highways should be taken from the counties, it must necessarily be imposed on private individuals or parishes. To such a proposal he should strenuously object, as, instead of localising such expenses, they should rather be disposed to generalise them.Lord G. Somerset
 could not help observing that the whole irregularity of this discussion was owing to the course taken by the noble Lord. If the noble Lord had contented himself with asking the question, there would have been no irregularity. But the noble Lord first rose at an irregular time, and then, not contented with getting an answer, he made an observation, that if Mr. Pare was guilty, he ought to have been dismissed, and if not, to be defended. Upon that arose the whole question. He did not take notice of the observation at the time, thinking it might lead to some discussion; but he denied that the noble Lord had a right to make any inference as to Mr. Pare being guilty or not guilty of any particular crime.— Subject dropped.Lord John Russell
 said that Mr. Pare had tendered his resignation of the office of superintendent registrar of Birmingham. That resignation had been accepted, and Mr. Pare had ceased to hold the office.Lord John Russell
 then moved, that "Mr. T. B. Howard, having been guilty of a high contempt and breach of the privileges of the House, be, for the said offence, committed to her Majesty's gaol of Newgate; and that Mr. Speaker do issue his warrants accordingly."Lord J Russell
habeashabeas corpus replied, that the reason for retaining Mr. Stockdale in the custody of the Sergeant was founded on the possibility that a writ of habeashabeas corpusLord J. Russell
 moved that the admonition of the Speaker to Mr. Howard, on the former occasion, be read; which was accordingly done by the clerk.Lord J. Russell
"That Thomas Burton Howard, having served a writ of summons upon Messrs. Hansards, the printers of that House, for the purpose of causing them to appear to an action in the Court of Queen's Bench, which he had brought at the instance of John Joseph Stock-dale, against them for a libel which they had published in the papers printed for the House, had been guilty of a high contempt of the privileges of that House." said, that the motion he had to make arose directly from the examination of Mr. Howard at the bar. The motion he had to propose to the House was to the following effect:—
"That Thomas Burton Howard, having served a writ of summons upon Messrs. Hansards, the printers of that House, for the purpose of causing them to appear to an action in the Court of Queen's Bench, which he had brought at the instance of John Joseph Stock-dale, against them for a libel which they had published in the papers printed for the House, had been guilty of a high contempt of the privileges of that House."Lord J. Russell
 was understood to intimate that all he had said on a former occasion was, that he wished to have the opinion of Parliament on the policy of the measure he intended to adopt. He believed that that measure might be accomplished without the assistance of Parliament. At the same time he was inclined to agree with the right hon. Baronet, that the best mode, perhaps, of taking the sense of Parliament on the question, would be to introduce a bill on the subject. It certainly was a very material change, and he should be very glad to ascertain the opinion of Parliament as to its expediency. He would, therefore, take into his consideration the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet. In the mean time he would say that no further steps would be taken by Government until Parliament had decided whether they ought to be taken or not. He did not know whether the right hon. Baronet was aware that what he had stated on a former night had reference to the Mauritius alone.Lord J. Russell
 —Was that libel contained in a report published by the authority of this House?—It was.The Speaker
 —Thomas Burton Howard, the House has been informed that on the 24th of February a writ of summons was served on the Messrs. Hansard, commanding them to enter an appearance within eight days of the receipt of the writ in the Court of Queen's Bench, in an action at the suit of John Joseph Stock-dale. They were also informed that your name was endorsed on the writ. Are you the attorney in the action?The Speaker
 said, there was no question before the House, and that he was, therefore, out of order, whenThe Speaker
 ordered him to be brought to the bar.The Speaker
 begged to remind the hon. Gentleman that there was no question before the House.The Speaker
: The hon. Member has moved the adjournment of the House. I apprehend that making that motion does not entitle him to go into observations on another subject.The Speaker
1316 would move as an amendment, that Mr. Howard be brought to the bar to-morrow. He did so for this rea-
1316Sir E. Sugden
 expressed a wish that the proceedings, in the present case, had not been so distinctly marked by party feeling as they had been. He distinctly said party feeling—nor did he allude to the noble Lord opposite—but to the hon. Members on his side, who had cheered the noble Lord's announcement of his intention to commit Mr. Stockdale to Newgate. Let the punishment due to the offenders in this case be administered, but let not the House exult over the victims of its privileges. He hoped the subject would be renewed on the following day with becoming temper. In the mean time, he would offer a decided negative to the motion of the noble Lord.Sir E. Sugden
1317 thought the course recommended by the Attorney-general was very severe, and he agreed with his hon. Friend that the matter had better stand over until to-morrow night, which he thought would be the more consistent course. He certainly thought the House possessed the power of publishing its proceedings, but he could not concur with the resolutions which decreed that every other court which presumed to decide on such questions was guilty of a breach of privilege. He thought the House was right in its original course of giving instruction to its servant to plead to the action, and he thought the further they departed from that course the greater would be the difficulties in which they would be involved. He would go as far as any one in maintaining the just privileges of the House, but he believed they would be best maintained by not stretching them beyond their just limits. He thought the proper course would have been, to have brought a writ of error, and then, if they had failed, which he was disposed to think they would not, they could have adopted the motion of his hon. Friend respecting legislation, which would not fail of its proper effect. If all other means had been tried and had failed, then he was ready to admit the present was the only course to be pursued. He entreated the noble Lord to let the result of the debate of the following day be as-
1317Mr. Shaw
observed, that if the House of Commons could not stand upon its own authority, it could derive no asssistance from the Congress of the United States. For his part he was not of opinion that the amendment ought to be pressed, and for that reason he would vote with the noble Lord opposite. Mr. Howard had already been summoned to the bar of that House, and he had been warned that the course he had taken was opposed to the privileges of the House; nor did he think that because there was a discussion upon the same subject pending before the House, the present motion ought to be delayed for one hour. He should, therefore, vote for the proposal of the noble Lord.Mr. Goulburn
 suggested that a branch office should be formed for the purpose of transmitting money letters and money orders, and that in this office a system of registration should be adopted. Such an office would be a great advantage to the public.Mr. Goulburn
 said that after the battle of Waterloo all general officers had been thanked by name. He attached great importance to the point. Every officer, under the circumstances, thought it a high honour to himself and his family to have his name mentioned, and he should therefore, strongly recommend that the resolution should include the names of all the general officers present at the capture of Ghuznee, or within hearing of the guns.Sir Henry Hardinge
1338 could not refrain from expressing the high approbation which he entertained at the conduct of the Indian army, commanded by a gallant, and now noble, Friend of his. Even before the advance on Ghuznee—even before they had accomplished that brilliant exploit— the conduct of the army had been meritorious in the most eminent degree. The privations and labour it had undergone were of the most trying description. Nor was the merit of endurance under severe privation, and admirable conduct and subordination due only to the British soldiers in this army. In these great military virtues, the British soldiers had been nobly emulated by the Sepoys, whose conduct in every respct and throughout the expedition had been such as to advance them greatly in the estimation of the officers. The capture of Ghuznee was effected by a rare combination of science and skill; science and skill which were doubly worthy of praise, inasmuch as they had saved the effusion of blood to a very considerable extent. The walls were too high to escalade; the ditch too deep to be forded; the artillery not able to batter a breach; but all these great obstacles were overcome by the scientific attainments of Captain, now most deservedly Major, Thompson, who by a plan, most simple in its nature, that of throwing bags of gunpowder against the only practicable entrance, the Cabool gate, opened a way for the admission of the British troops. In blowing open that gate, but one death occurred, and the whole operation only cost us the lives of 200 men. With respect to the plan adopted by Major Thompson, without in the least detracting from the merit of that gallant officer in its admirable and most effective application, he (Sir H. Hardinge) could not help pointing out that the invention of this plan was due to Colonel Pasley, of the engineers, com-mandmant at Chatham, to whom the Ordnance department, and the public in general, were so much indebted. Of this gallant officer, Major Thompson had been a worthy pupil, and had known how to apply the invention to the readiest and most effectual account. The right lion, and gallant Member concluded by expressing his hope that the late triumphs of the British arms would have a salutary
1338Sir H. Hardinge
1341 said he thought he heard the right hon. Gentleman speak of Brigadier-General Sale by the title of
1341Sir Henry Hardinge
Start into light, and make the lighter start."Touch'd by the lamplighter's Promethean art,Their long wax-candles, with short cotton wicks,"'Twas sweet to view, from half-past five to six, considered, that they were greatly indebted to the hon. and gallant Member, for his repeated attempts to enlighten the House. He thought
Start into light, and make the lighter start."Touch'd by the lamplighter's Promethean art,Their long wax-candles, with short cotton wicks,"'Twas sweet to view, from half-past five to six,Colonel Salwey
, wished that the experiment should be fairly made, and the hon. and gallant Officer could at any subsequent period renew his motion. He found the greatest relief from the new mode of lighting, for, instead of numerous candles glaring in his face, the light was now above, and the hat formed a shade for the eyes. It was desirable that as large a number of Members as possible, should pronounce their opinions upon the subject, and it was peculiarly desirable, that the Speaker should state his opinions, which were most important.Mr. Warburton
 would not press the subject upon an unwilling House, but would call the attention of the House to the petition of Mr. Pare to-morrow.Mr. Warburton
 said the noble Lord had given notice of a motion upon the conduct of Mr. Pare. It was then announced that Mr. Pare had resigned, and no observation having been made upon that by the noble Lord, it would be left in doubt whether Mr. Pare was guilty or not. It would be the consummation of injustice to refuse to hear his defence. If he gave a notice on the subject, he could not tell when he might have an opportunity of bringing it before the House. In the meantime Mr. Pare's conduct would be subject to all the reflections that might be made. The hon. Member was proceeding, whenMr. Warburton
cheers.OrderOrder, order: Then I move the adjournment of the House. The hon. Member said, that the noble Lord was not contented with asking a question and receiving an answer, but proceeded to make an observation with regard to Mr. Pare. He (Mr. Warburton) should therefore now state what had come to his knowledge of the character of Mr. Pare. A petition had been presented by Mr. Pare respecting his conduct, which had been the subject of observation in another place. The character of an individual was at stake, and if this opportunity were not taken of justifying Mr. Pare, as far as his conduct admitted of justification, the opportunity would be lost. It would go forth to the world that he had resigned his situation, and that no observation had been made upon the mode in which the circumstance had taken place ["cheers.OrderOrder, orderMr. Warburton
 rose, butMr. Warburton
 observed, that the question was not whether the House was or was not to punish any individual for having committed a breach of its privileges, but whether Mr. Howard should be committed to Newgate for having been guilty of a high contempt towards that House. There could be no question that the House was the sole judge of its own privileges. This view of the subject was sanctioned by the proceedings of the Congress of the United States, and by the solemn decision of the Supreme Court of Judicature there, as would be found on reference to the 6th volume of Wheatson's Reports of Appeal Cases to the Supreme Courts. The Attorney-general of the United States had stated it to be his opinion, and the Supreme Court had upheld that opinion, that the Congress was the sole judge of its own privileges, and that these privileges did not admit of a contest in any other place. The opinion of the Attorney-general was, "that a legislative body was of necessity possessed of the power of committal, and that it was also possessed of the power of judging of its own privileges, and how far those privileges had been violated; and, also, that no other person could in any case presume to judge of them." This opinion, elicited in the case of Anderton against Dunn, was sufficient to prove, that the United States took an enlarged view of the privileges attached to Congress, and it also proved that there were not those fears entertained with respect to a democratic body amongst a republican people, which had been so broadly put forth in reference to the present case.Mr. Warburton
 moved for leave to bring in a bill to regulate the stage coaches running in Ireland.Mr. E. Tennent
: Am I, then, to understand that it is not the intention of the Government to resume the system of registration of money letters which formerly prevailed?Mr. Barneby
60l75l claimed for a short time the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had that morning received a letter from one of his constituents, stating that about fourteen days ago he transmitted the sum of 60l75lMr. Barneby
 moved for leave to bring in a bill "to remove from counties the expense and liability of repairing the highways over bridges, and the 300 feet next adjoining to any ends of the same."Mr. Barneby
 said, he was a very old Member of the House, and was agreeably surprised, on first seeing the new light, to find, that though a little gloomy at first, on taking a paper of small print from his pocket, he found he had not been able to read for many years past, so well as on that occasion. He was perfectly satisfied, that this light was the best the House had yet tried. He should, therefore, vote at all events for a longer trial.Mr. Benett
 said, he was not so old a Member, nor was his sight so defective, though not so good as it had been. He felt it difficult to decide upon the subject, but was, on the whole, inclined to think he gave the preference to the present. With respect to the mist, he thought it did not arise from the light, but from the dust which arose from the numerous holes in the floor for the purpose of ventilation. There were gentlemen engaged in the gallery above, to whom the light and its effects were of the utmost consequence, and he had taken it upon himself to ask them their opinion respecting the present lights, and they were unanimous in its favour. He certainly would vote for the Bude light.Mr. Briscoe
 said, that Mr. Gurney had received very short notice to make the arrangements for lighting the House, but when sufficient time should be allowed him, there was no doubt that he would be able to remove any inconvenience which existed. There was one inconvenience which hon. Members must have noticed, namely, a sort of fog or mist which was sometimes perceived, but that arose not from the mode of lighting, but from the mode of ventilating the House, which filled the air with particles of dust, and rendered it unfit for respiration; it was caused by the House being ventilated from below. He hoped they would allow time to have the experiment fairly tried before they decided.Mr. Hume
 had much pleasure in concurring in this vote, and he looked back with great satisfaction upon the manner in which the whole expedition had been conducted. He believed that it was an expedition more likely to be beneficial to India than any which had previously taken place. Having seen the lamentable results of inefficient attempts to carry out great arrangements, he thought the conduct of Lord Auckland was marked by the greatest wisdom, inasmuch as he had assembled an overwhelming power to carry his design into execution. Besides, much of the success of the expedition was owing to the ample manner in which the necessary supplies had been provided. He had served thirty-five years ago in India, with some of those regiments which appeared to have distinguished themselves, and he knew that it was a matter of complaint among such men that their brave and gallant actions were not sufficiently valued at home. He believed the Indian army had not received the full meed of approbation for their gallant conduct; and he was therefore gratified by the unanimous vote of approval which the House was about to pass. He thought Lord Auckland's conduct eminently entitled him to be included in the vote. With regard to the anxiety of the right hon. Baronet opposite to know the state of the revenue, he was satisfied that when the accounts were produced, heavy as they must be, yet, considering the effect produced upon the whole of India, the expense would be found in reality enonomical.Mr. Hume
 —In what publication of this House was the libel contained?Mr. Hume
 did not wish to offer any objections to the motion of the noble Lord, but he begged to suggest whether it would not be proper to send for Mr. Stockdale, for the purpose of asking him whether he had given the instructions to Mr. Howard.Mr. Hume
1321 observed, that the hon. Member opposite had not offered a syllable in explanation on behalf of his bill. The Secretary to the Irish Government had expressed his readiness to bring in a bill on the same subject, and why should not the measure of the hon. Member be handed over to the noble Lord, in order that the
1321Mr. Hume
1337 said, that as Chairman of the East India Company, he could not give a silent vote on this occasion, though, after the speeches of the right hon. Gentlemen who had preceded him, there remained very little for him to say. Considering the difficulties under which the expedition was undertaken, there was hardly any person who had not felt very great anxiety as to the result; but every step which the troops made in their progress tended to remove this anxiety, and it was soon felt, that the zeal, and bravery and steady perseverance of the British army, would bring the campaign to a triumphant issue; the whole course of their successes appeared to have been exempt from the usual vicissitudes of war. Mighty armies fled before a mere handful of men; fortresses deemed impregnable had fallen as if by magic, before the skill of our officers and the bravery of our soldiers; victory had followed our standard were defeat was confidently anticipated. The army of India had few opportunities of meeting the enemy in the field, but they had to perform one of the most extraordinary actions in military history; an action more brilliant, more seasonable, more decisive than the capture of Ghuznee had rarely been accomplished. Our Indian service had always looked to the approbation of Parliament and of the country, as its highest reward, and never had a service more entitled itself to such thanks. Never had there been a military exploit of so complicated a nature, and carried to such a distance from the base of its resources, which had so completely answered to the conception on which it was founded; and never had there been a military exploit in which every individual
1337Sir R. Jenkins
 said, that until they should see how the railroads would answer, they ought not to suffer the common road-trusts to fall totally into neglect.Sir C. Burrell
1313 proceeded—I wish to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he intends to make any alteration in the regulations of the Post-office? And for this reason:—On Monday last, I put a letter into the Post office myself, and I put in another on Tuesday last. I have no doubt, therefore, that the letters were put into the Post-office. I have this day heard that neither the letter which I put into the post on Monday, nor that which I put into it on Tuesday, has yet been received. Another question which I have to ask relates to a money letter, which was sent up to London from the country. For several days the letter and the remittance were lost, but at last it was found that the letter-carrier had stolen the letter.
1313Sir C. Knightley
"Order," from various parts of the HouseConfusion in the House.Laughter: I have not done with the right hon. Gentleman. I have another question to ask him. Is there any chance of his making fresh regulations for the management of the Post-office? I will tell the right hon. Gentleman why I ask that question. On the 18th of January last, the porter of the Carlton Club— ["Order," from various parts of the HouseConfusion in the House.LaughterSir C. Knightley
: Seeing the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, I wish to ask him whether he is aware that a person, who is in the habit of receiving annually large sums out of the Post-office, has recently been informed that he will no longer receive them from that department, but must get a warrant for them from the Stamp-office, as the Post-office is no longer able to pay its own expenses?Sir C. Knightley
1340 rose to express his entire concurrence in the vote, at which he felt much gratified. With regard to the expediency including the Governor-general in the vote, he had only one observation to make. He had the honour of listening to the illustrious Duke, whose authority was admitted on all hands to be the
1340Sir De Lacy Evans
: There never was any system of registration for money letters. Letters supposed to contain sovereigns had been placed apart; but there never was a regular system of registration. Considering the multitude of letters which now pass through the Post-office, it was impossible, from the loss of time it would occasion, to establish a system of registration. Indeed, he had felt it to be his duty to advise the authorities of the Post-office to issue a caution against transmitting money letters through the Post-office.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
: If the hon. Baronet, instead of bringing his charges against the Post-office in a way in which the forms of the House almost preclude me from giving any answer to them, will have the goodness to put them down in writing, particularizing, at the same time, names, dates, and places, and will give me time to make the necessary inquiry into the correctness of those charges, he will find every inclination on my part to procure him satisfaction. If any officer, either in the Post-office or in any other public department of the Government over which I have control, shall have been guilty of such conduct as the hon. Baronet has mentioned, I can assure him that from me at least that officer shall receive no encouragement. At the same time I must tell the hon. Baronet, that it is not fair that these accusations should be made without notice, as under such circumstances neither the Government nor its officers have the means of entering on their defence.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it advisable that parties should not transmit large sums of money through the Post-office, as it was impossible to guarantee entire security for such sums in the large number of letters now delivered. Small sums, however, might be transmitted through the post in perfect safety by an order from one post-office upon another.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
: I have not heard of any such statement; and I think, that if such a circumstance had occurred, I must have been made acquainted with it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1344 said, he was about to address the House
1344Sir. F. Trench
 rose to order, and said it was totally contrary to the practice of the House to move an adjournment, and then proceed to make observations upon some other subject.Sir George Clerk
1311 wished to put a question to the noble Secretary for the Colonies respecting the Hill Coolies. He understood the noble Lord on a former night to declare that her Majesty's Government had come to a determination to renounce the resolution to which they had formerly come, respecting the deportation of Hill Coolies from the continent of India to the West Indies under eon-tract of low wages for labour, which they were to perform on their arrival in those colonies. He understood the noble Lord to say that such a change of decision was
1311Sir J. Graham
nemine contradicente said, it was not for him at all to anticipate what might be the decision of the House on the case of the sheriffs. The House might think there were circumstances in their case which should mitigate their punishment. But the House was then considering what should be done with Mr. Howard. And when it was recollected that, after the admonition of the Speaker, which had just been read, and which had been ordered, nemine contradicenteThe Attorney-General
"6. That the said resolutions be transmitted by the Speaker to the Governor-general of India; and that his Lordship be requested to communicate the same to the several officers referred to therein.""5. That this resolution be signified to them by the commanders of the several corps.1332"4. That this House doth highly approve and acknowledge the discipline and patient perseverance displayed by the non-commissioned officers and private soldiers, both European and Native, during a long and painful march through an untried country; and doth also
1332"3. That the thanks of this House be given to Major-general Sir Willoughby Cotton, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honourable Military Order of the Bath, and to the several officers of the army, both European and Native, for their good conduct and gallant exertions during the late operations to the westward of the Indus."2. That the thanks of this House be given to Lieut-general Lord Keane, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honourable Military Order of the Bath, for his meritorious conduct in the command of the forces employed to the westward of the Indus; and more particularly for the energy and promptitude with which he planned and directed the assault of the city and fortress of Ghuznee, the success of which brilliant achievement highly contributed to the honour of the British army, and to the rapid accomplishment of the enterprise in which they were engaged."1. That the thanks of this House be given to the right hon. George Earl of Auckland, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honourable Order of the Bath, Governor-general of the British Possessions in the East Indies, for the judgment and ability with which the resources of the British Empire in India have been recently applied, under his direction, in aid of the military operations to the westward of the Indus.1331"In a military point of view, the expedition to Affghanistan is one of the most memorable events of modern times. For the first time since the days of Alexander the Great, a civilized army has penetrated the mighty barrier of deserts and mountains which separates Persia from Hindostan; and the prodigy has been exhibited to an astonished world of a remote island in the European seas pushing forward its mighty arms into the heart of Asia, and carrying its victorious standards into the strong, holds of Mahomedan faith and the cradle of the Mogul Empire. Neither the intricate streams of the Punjab, nor the rapid flow of the
133113301329132813271326***1325"The bridge which had been constructed by Captains Thomson and Sanders, of the Bengal Engineers, was ready. It is described as a structure which does infinite credit to those distinguished officers, and whether we consider the difficulties they had to overcome, or the solidity of the bridge, it will justly entitle them to the consideration of the Court of Directors. Sir Henry Fane is reported to have said, that he had seen no such structure erected in so brief a period during the whole of his Peninsular campaign. The Bengal troops crossed the Indus upon it without a single casualty. It was a gallant sight to see brigade after brigade, with its martial music and its glittering arms, marching over file by file, horse, foot, and artillery, into a region as yet untrodden by British soldiers. The native soldiery are said to have been loud in their admiration of the arrangements which had been made for crossing the boundary of Hindostan, and to have gained additional confidence in the enterprise in which they were engaged."132413231322then rose and said: In pursuance of the notice which I placed on the Table of this House on a very early day of the present Session, I rise to move a vote of thanks to the Governor-General of India, and the officers and men of the army of the Indus, for themilitary operations which have recently taken place to the westward of the Indus. In doing this I only follow the practice which has uniformly prevailed, almost ever since the very commencement of the British empire in India—from the moment that the thanks of this House were reluctantly wrung from those who doubted the expediency of the great exploits performed by Lord Clive, in the foundation of our empire in India, almost up to the present day. Lord Cornwallis in the year 1792; the Marquess Wellesley in the year 1799, and again in the year 1804; Lord Minto in the year 1812, and the Marquess of Hastings in the years 1817 and 1819, received, as Governors-general of India, the thanks of this House. On two of the occasions—and those the best known—which I have just now mentioned, the thanks of Parliament were confined to the military arrangements and operations; and the policy and origin of the wars were studiously kept out of view by those who, being placed in the position which I now fill, proposed those thanks. Such was the case in 1804, when Lord Castlereagh proposed a vote of thanks to the Marquess Wellesley; and such also was the course adopted when Mr. Canning proposed a vote of thanks to the Marquess of Hastings. I take the liberty of following these examples, and in what I am about to address to the House, I shall expressly keep out of view the policy, the cause, and the origin of the war; and I shall confine myself to the military operations and arrangements made by the Governor-General, and carried into effect by the army of the Indus. I hold this to be the expe-
"6. That the said resolutions be transmitted by the Speaker to the Governor-general of India; and that his Lordship be requested to communicate the same to the several officers referred to therein.""5. That this resolution be signified to them by the commanders of the several corps.1332"4. That this House doth highly approve and acknowledge the discipline and patient perseverance displayed by the non-commissioned officers and private soldiers, both European and Native, during a long and painful march through an untried country; and doth also
1332"3. That the thanks of this House be given to Major-general Sir Willoughby Cotton, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honourable Military Order of the Bath, and to the several officers of the army, both European and Native, for their good conduct and gallant exertions during the late operations to the westward of the Indus."2. That the thanks of this House be given to Lieut-general Lord Keane, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honourable Military Order of the Bath, for his meritorious conduct in the command of the forces employed to the westward of the Indus; and more particularly for the energy and promptitude with which he planned and directed the assault of the city and fortress of Ghuznee, the success of which brilliant achievement highly contributed to the honour of the British army, and to the rapid accomplishment of the enterprise in which they were engaged."1. That the thanks of this House be given to the right hon. George Earl of Auckland, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honourable Order of the Bath, Governor-general of the British Possessions in the East Indies, for the judgment and ability with which the resources of the British Empire in India have been recently applied, under his direction, in aid of the military operations to the westward of the Indus.1331"In a military point of view, the expedition to Affghanistan is one of the most memorable events of modern times. For the first time since the days of Alexander the Great, a civilized army has penetrated the mighty barrier of deserts and mountains which separates Persia from Hindostan; and the prodigy has been exhibited to an astonished world of a remote island in the European seas pushing forward its mighty arms into the heart of Asia, and carrying its victorious standards into the strong, holds of Mahomedan faith and the cradle of the Mogul Empire. Neither the intricate streams of the Punjab, nor the rapid flow of the
133113301329132813271326***1325"The bridge which had been constructed by Captains Thomson and Sanders, of the Bengal Engineers, was ready. It is described as a structure which does infinite credit to those distinguished officers, and whether we consider the difficulties they had to overcome, or the solidity of the bridge, it will justly entitle them to the consideration of the Court of Directors. Sir Henry Fane is reported to have said, that he had seen no such structure erected in so brief a period during the whole of his Peninsular campaign. The Bengal troops crossed the Indus upon it without a single casualty. It was a gallant sight to see brigade after brigade, with its martial music and its glittering arms, marching over file by file, horse, foot, and artillery, into a region as yet untrodden by British soldiers. The native soldiery are said to have been loud in their admiration of the arrangements which had been made for crossing the boundary of Hindostan, and to have gained additional confidence in the enterprise in which they were engaged."132413231322Sir John Hobhouse
 said he had originally intended to include the names of all the general officers, not only that of Brigadier-General Sale, but those of General Wilshire and General Thackwell, but he was afraid of making some mistake by leaving out the name of any officer who might be entitled to be mentioned. He thought it safer, therefore, to put only the name of the second in command.Sir J. C. Hobhouse
 said it was quite unnecessary for him to say a word, after the unanimous approbation with which the proposal had been received. He would not have risen, but that the hon. Gentleman seemed to imply that he had himself expressed some doubt of the policy of Lord Auckland. He had not expressed any doubt of the kind. It was his intention to have said, that if ever the opportunity should occur, he would be prepared to take his share in the defence of the policy of the expedition.Sir J. C. Hobhouse
 said there would be an inconvenience in making a distinction between the votes of that House and those come to by the House of Lords. Every one must have been aware of the nature of the resolutions from having seen those agreed to by the House of Lords. It would not answer to include in the resolution the names of those only who had been present at Ghuznee, because the resolutions applied to all concerned in the expedition.Sir J. C. Hobhouse
 did not believe that a single instance existed of a prisoner being brought up to the bar for the purpose of convicting another person and himself too. He objected to t\ie motion of the noble Lord, looking at the course which the House had pursued, when the second action was brought, namely, that of instructing the Attorney-general to appear. He stated yesterday that he did not question the right of the House to summon Mr. Howard to the bar, because it would be impossible to carry on any private bill without the House had that power; but he did deny the right of the House to exercise the power of summoning parties to their bar for the purpose of inflicting punishment upon them. They were called on to take another step, from which the House could with propriety desist. He hoped, therefore, that the House would not further involve itself, and that Mr. Howard would be discharged.Sir R. Inglis
13341333 could not deny himself the satisfaction of confirming the truth of the statement, that no difference of political opinion could for a moment induce any political party to withhold the expression of their satisfaction at the success of the British army, and their admiration of the valour and perseverance of those by whom that success had been achieved. He considered it a subject of the highest congratulation to the House and to the country, that now, after an interval of peace of not fewer than twenty-five years, after our armies had been so long without any actual experience in the field, he considered it highly gratifying that our soldiers had shown themselves so worthy of their predecessors in arms, and so fitted to support the military reputation of their country. Whether it was twenty-eight men, or twenty-one thousand, that were engaged, the martial spirit of the British troops was still the same as it was on the eve of the Battle of Waterloo. The troops had not only displayed the greatest personal valour, but there appeared to have been an exhibition of patience, of fortitude, of perseverance under difficulties, which, at least, equally with their personal valour, merited the warmest thanks of the House. It might appear presumptuous in him, an unprofessional man, to add his voice to the tribute of admiration which had been expressed by military authorities, but still, even to military men, the declaration of a civilian that as far as he could judge, the military had performed their duty in the noblest and ablest manner, could not be altogether unwelcome. So far, then, as the conduct of the army was concerned, he could concur in the vote of thanks to the fullest extent. Upon the policy out of which the expedition, upon the state of the finances affected by it, and upon the results, he conceived himself, and, indeed, he was fully justified by the right hon. Gentleman, in reserving his opinion. When the right hon. Gentleman told the House that an army of 8,000 men upon its march was
13341333Sir R. Peel
 said, that the subject was a very complicated one, but he saw no reason why his hon. Friend should not have leave to introduce his bill. The pre. sent was the third occasion in which the Ministers had, by their own avowals, been anticipated in their own measures, and he would only express a hope that his hon. Friend would continue in the same course.Sir R. Peel
 thought it would be awkward to come to a different conclusion from the House of Lords. At the same time, to draw a distinction between truly brilliant services, as those performed in India, and others performed in Europe, might create dissatisfaction. Perhaps the better course would be, first to follow the precedent of the House of Lords, in passing these resolutions, and afterwards that both Houses should specifically mention the names of the general officers.Sir R. Peel
 should be sorry to do injustice to Lord Auckland. He should regret if it were supposed that he had expressed any doubt of the zeal or activity of Lord Auckland. He only doubted the policy, upon principle, of including a civilian in a vote of thanks to military authorities. He objected to including the Governor-general, as he should object to including a Secretary of State. For instance, Lord Bathurst, by his attention to military supplies, might have been largely instrumental in obtaining the successes in the Peninsula; but he should have objected to including him in such a vote of thanks, on the general principle that a civilian ought not to be included in thanks to officers for a military exploit. He did not doubt the personal good conduct of Lord Auckland, or that he had been distinguished by the utmost attention to those preparations which fell within his province.Sir Robert Peel
 intimated that the Government had no objection to this measure, and had intended to bring in a bill on the same subject.Viscount Morpeth
2524v.habeas corpus,23habeas corpus"1. That no commoner of England committed by the House of Commons for breach of privilege, or contempt of the House, ought to be by any writ of habeas corpus,23habeas corpus"That the House of Commons, in committing the plaintiffs to Newgate upon pretence that their conduct was contrary to a declaration of that House, a contempt of their jurisdiction, and a breach of the privileges of the House of Commons, have assumed to themselves alone a legislative power, by pretending to attribute the force of a law to their declaration, have claimed a jurisdiction not warranted by the constitution, and have assumed a new privilege to which they can show no title, and have thereby, as far as in them lies, subjected the rights of Englishmen and the freedom of their persons, to the arbitrary votes of the House of Commons.""That neither House of Parliament hath any power by any vote or declaration to create to themselves any new privilege that is not warranted by the known laws and customs of Parliament."22habeas corpus"That all the parties had been guilty of a breach of privilege in bringing their action contrary to their declaration, in high contempt of the jurisdiction, and in breach of the known privileges of this House.""1. That the action could be maintained. 2. That the declaring Ashby guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House of Commons, for prosecuting his action after he had in the known and proper methods of law, obtained a judgment in Parliament for the recovery of his damages, was an unprecedented attempt upon the judicature of Parliament, add was in effect to subject the laws of England to the votes of the House of Commons. 3. That the deterring electors from prosecuting actions in the ordinary course of law, and terrifying attornies, solicitors, counsellors, and sergeants-at-law from soliciting, prosecuting, and pleading in such cases, by voting their so doing a breach of the privileges of the House of Commons, is a manifest assuming to control the law, to hinder the course of justice, and subject the property of Englishmen to the arbitrary votes of the House of Commons."21"Resolved,—First, that Ashby in commencing and prosecuting his action has been guilty of a breach of privilege. Resolved secondly,—That whoever shall presume to commence any such action or other proceeding and all other attornies, solicitors, counsellors, and sergeants-at-law, soliciting, prosecuting, or pleading, in any such case, are guilty of a high breach of the privileges of this House; and that these resolutions be fixed upon the gate of Westminster-hall."201918"Well, but we can punish the officer, and in that there is revenge; and that is a sweet bit, and some satisfaction."1716"My Lords, I should have granted the writs of error in this address, but finding an absolute necessity of putting an immediate end to this session, I am sensible there would have been no further proceedings upon that matter.""But this matter, relating to the course of judicial proceedings, being of the highest importance, Her Majesty thinks it necessary to weigh and consider very carefully what may be proper for her to do in a matter of so great concern.""Her Majesty is much troubled to find the House of Commons of opinion that her granting the writs of error is against their privileges, of which she will always be as tender as of her own prerogative, and therefore the House of Commons may depend Her Majesty will not do anything to give them any just cause of complaint."15A laugh.14habeas corpus,habeas corpus.13habeas corpus1211l.10in formâ pauperis.nisi prius98 said, that in arguing a question involving the jurisdiction of the House, the supremacy of the law, and the rights and liberties of the subject, he would endeavour to avoid saying anything that might give pain to any individual, or give rise to any feelings of discontent on the part of the minority of the House against the majority. He should endeavour to consider what were the rights of the Queen's subjects and of that House in the present case, without regarding whether it might please or displease the House, but in terms which he hoped would give offence to no man. Before he entered on the subject, as there had been some misapprehension as to what his own opinions on this point were, he wished to state explicitly his views. In the first place, speaking with great deference of the judges of the Court of Queen's Bench, he had always been of opinion that they were wrong on this particular point. It was, and had always been, his opinion, that this particular publication—he went no further—was a privileged publication, and therefore, that their decision ought to have been otherwise. But at the same time, the House would be aware, that that in no respect altered his view, for he took this ground, that the point came regularly under discussion, that the Court had to come to some determination on it, and whether they were right or wrong in their determination, was not the question before the
2524v.habeas corpus,23habeas corpus"1. That no commoner of England committed by the House of Commons for breach of privilege, or contempt of the House, ought to be by any writ of habeas corpus,23habeas corpus"That the House of Commons, in committing the plaintiffs to Newgate upon pretence that their conduct was contrary to a declaration of that House, a contempt of their jurisdiction, and a breach of the privileges of the House of Commons, have assumed to themselves alone a legislative power, by pretending to attribute the force of a law to their declaration, have claimed a jurisdiction not warranted by the constitution, and have assumed a new privilege to which they can show no title, and have thereby, as far as in them lies, subjected the rights of Englishmen and the freedom of their persons, to the arbitrary votes of the House of Commons.""That neither House of Parliament hath any power by any vote or declaration to create to themselves any new privilege that is not warranted by the known laws and customs of Parliament."22habeas corpus"That all the parties had been guilty of a breach of privilege in bringing their action contrary to their declaration, in high contempt of the jurisdiction, and in breach of the known privileges of this House.""1. That the action could be maintained. 2. That the declaring Ashby guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House of Commons, for prosecuting his action after he had in the known and proper methods of law, obtained a judgment in Parliament for the recovery of his damages, was an unprecedented attempt upon the judicature of Parliament, add was in effect to subject the laws of England to the votes of the House of Commons. 3. That the deterring electors from prosecuting actions in the ordinary course of law, and terrifying attornies, solicitors, counsellors, and sergeants-at-law from soliciting, prosecuting, and pleading in such cases, by voting their so doing a breach of the privileges of the House of Commons, is a manifest assuming to control the law, to hinder the course of justice, and subject the property of Englishmen to the arbitrary votes of the House of Commons."21"Resolved,—First, that Ashby in commencing and prosecuting his action has been guilty of a breach of privilege. Resolved secondly,—That whoever shall presume to commence any such action or other proceeding and all other attornies, solicitors, counsellors, and sergeants-at-law, soliciting, prosecuting, or pleading, in any such case, are guilty of a high breach of the privileges of this House; and that these resolutions be fixed upon the gate of Westminster-hall."201918"Well, but we can punish the officer, and in that there is revenge; and that is a sweet bit, and some satisfaction."1716"My Lords, I should have granted the writs of error in this address, but finding an absolute necessity of putting an immediate end to this session, I am sensible there would have been no further proceedings upon that matter.""But this matter, relating to the course of judicial proceedings, being of the highest importance, Her Majesty thinks it necessary to weigh and consider very carefully what may be proper for her to do in a matter of so great concern.""Her Majesty is much troubled to find the House of Commons of opinion that her granting the writs of error is against their privileges, of which she will always be as tender as of her own prerogative, and therefore the House of Commons may depend Her Majesty will not do anything to give them any just cause of complaint."15A laugh.14habeas corpus,habeas corpus.13habeas corpus1211l.10in formâ pauperis.nisi prius98Sir E. Sugden
3332Hear, hear.313029282726*** 3332Hear, hear.313029282726***The Lord-Advocate
383736"As to all other privileges which obstruct the ordinary course of justice, they are restrained by the statutes 12 William 3, c. 3; 2nd and 3rd Anne, c. 18; and 11th George 2, c. 24; and are now totally abolished by 10th George 3, c. 50.""But all other privileges that derogate from the common law, in matters of civil right, are now at an end, save only as to the freedom of the Member's person.""The dignity and independence of the two Houses are, therefore, in a great measure, preserved by keeping their privileges indefinite.""The whole of the law and custom of Parliament has its origin from this one maxim, that whatever matter arises concerning either House of Parliament, ought to be examined, discussed, and adjudged in that House to which it relates, and not elsewhere."Blackstone's Commentaries,35l.,habeas corpus34 said, that, after the broad allusions which had been made to him the other night by his learned Friend, the Solicitor-general, he thought that the House would consider he owed them an apology if he did not address them on this subject; and that he should be charged with want of manliness if he did not now state his opinion distinctly and broadly. He had been placed in a position different from one part of the House—he would not say a party, for this was not a party question, but differing from one portion of the House as to the practical question of how their privileges were to be maintained; and from another portion of the House as to the question of privilege itself. He would not now enter into questions where he could not afford much assistance to either portion; but he felt himself called on to state the part which he had been compelled to take, after bestowing on the subject perhaps not so much pains, but certainly as much anxious attention, as his learned Friend, the Solicitor-general had shown, by the very able manner in which he had performed his duty on the present occasion. In the observations which he had to address to the House, he hoped he should be able to follow the example of the learned Lord who had just sat down; for certainly a calmer or more temperate speech, or a speech conceived in a spirit more proper to discuss such a subject, he had never heard. And if he should err, which, however, he trusted he should not, it undoubtedly would not be from the want of the best possible example immediately before him. He had no hesitation in avowing at once, that in his judgment the House did possess perfectly the entire privilege on this question which it claimed, and that it was no desire to obtain the good opinion or good word of any one which induced him to say, that he had not the slightest doubt or hesitation in stating that proposition. He thought they possessed it on the ground that it was essential to the due discharge of their duties. He did not mean to detain the House, but he must say, that after the argument of his right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth, he could not conceive that any Member of that House could entertain any doubt on the subject. And in the absence of his right hon. Friend, he might be permitted to say [the hon. and learned Mem-
383736"As to all other privileges which obstruct the ordinary course of justice, they are restrained by the statutes 12 William 3, c. 3; 2nd and 3rd Anne, c. 18; and 11th George 2, c. 24; and are now totally abolished by 10th George 3, c. 50.""But all other privileges that derogate from the common law, in matters of civil right, are now at an end, save only as to the freedom of the Member's person.""The dignity and independence of the two Houses are, therefore, in a great measure, preserved by keeping their privileges indefinite.""The whole of the law and custom of Parliament has its origin from this one maxim, that whatever matter arises concerning either House of Parliament, ought to be examined, discussed, and adjudged in that House to which it relates, and not elsewhere."Blackstone's Commentaries,35l.,habeas corpus34Sir F. Pollock
45Williams Wynn44v.nulla bona4342414039 could not think any excuse necessary for trespassing on the House with regard to so important a subject as the present. There was one consolation, at all events, that no discussion had ever taken place in that Houses so totally devoid of party spirit. It was entirely free from any of those squabbles which occurred between them on other topics. They had been told, on both sides of the House, that public opinion was very considerably engaged, some said in opposition, others said in support of the proceedings which they had taken. He certainly thought it could not be denied, that there was a great number of persons who differed from them. Therefore, it was essentially their duty to show to the public that the House was right, and that the judgment of those who differed from it were erroneous. He had heard, during the debate, many professions, no doubt sincere ones, of attachment to public liberty; but he believed
45Williams Wynn44v.nulla bona4342414039Mr. O'Connell
50"Bear it, that the opposers might beware of them.""Beware of entrance to the quarrel;"49habeas corpus,habeas corpus.v.4847"This sentence seems to imply a discretionary power in the two Houses of Parliament, which surely is repugnant to the spirit of our constitution.""But the maxims upon which they proceed, together with the method of proceeding, rest entirely in the breast of the Parliament itself, and are not defined and ascertained by any particular stated laws.""Hence the Lords will not suffer the Commons to interfere in settling the election of a peer of Scotland. The Commons will not allow the Lords to judge of the election of a burgess, nor will either House permit the subordinate courts of law to examine the merits of either case."46 agreed in the necessity and importance of retaining the privilege of printing the proceedings of that House, but he would beg shortly to state the reasons upon which he would give his vote that night for the discharge of the sheriffs, He ventured humbly to think, in accordance with the great legal authorities on both sides of the House, that the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench in respect of their privileges had been erroneous; but was that any reason that the House should fall into error itself? Two wrongs could not make one right, and he considered that, in the first instance, the House had taken the right course in directing its officers to plead its privileges. Now, what did they say by the third resolution of the House in 1837?—"That it was a breach and contempt of our privileges for any court to assume to decide upon matters of our privilege;" and then, what did they do? Why, submit to a court,—namely, the Court of Queen's Bench, by plea, the decision of the very question of privilege now at issue. It needed not to be a lawyer to understand that there was neither law, nor reason, nor manliness, in such a course as that. Then, again, whom did their resolution denounce as the violators of their privileges? The court that assumed to decide upon them. And whom did they grapple with? Their mere instruments, faithfully discharging their known duty, and acting under the court's authority and command, and for which that court offered them its own responsibility. If the House wished to try the real question, why did not they commit the judges? And they answered it for themselves without difficulty—because the House dare not. The Solicitor-general had referred to the authority of Mr. Justice Blackstone, but he thought he had not very fairly quoted it. The extract from Lord Coke had reference to the law of Parliament, in distinction to the privileges of Parliament, and so it would appear from the next paragraph,
50"Bear it, that the opposers might beware of them.""Beware of entrance to the quarrel;"49habeas corpus,habeas corpus.v.4847"This sentence seems to imply a discretionary power in the two Houses of Parliament, which surely is repugnant to the spirit of our constitution.""But the maxims upon which they proceed, together with the method of proceeding, rest entirely in the breast of the Parliament itself, and are not defined and ascertained by any particular stated laws.""Hence the Lords will not suffer the Commons to interfere in settling the election of a peer of Scotland. The Commons will not allow the Lords to judge of the election of a burgess, nor will either House permit the subordinate courts of law to examine the merits of either case."46Mr. Shaw
51 said that some apology was due to the House for presenting himself to their attention this night, more especially after the luminous and able speech of the learned Lord, in the whole of whose argument he most entirely concurred, so much so, that he doubted whether it was possible for any person to offer anything new, but he did feel it necessary in some degree to say that he maintained every opinion which he had already, during a long course of years, stated to the House upon this subject. Regretting as he did, with every lover of his country, and every one who wished to respect the constituted authorities and that due obedience should be paid to them—regretting, he said, on this account, that a collision should have taken place between the Court of Queen's Bench and that House, he could not agree with the statement, that the judges and that House had different duties to perform, that the judges were bound to maintain and observe the rights of the subjects, and that the House had no such duty to perform with respect to its privileges, which it might or might not enforce. Those privileges were not their own individually—it was not at their discretion to enforce or abandon them. They were committed to their care by their constituents—they were bound to uphold them, and as they had received them were bound to preserve them, and to hand them down to their successors. Undoubtedly it might happen, and it had happened, that privileges which at one period of our history, and in one state of society, were necessary for the due and important discharge of the duties of the House, became no longer requisite. In all such cases the course followed was obvious, and the House had resigned such privileges by legislative enactment. The House had shown its willing-
51Mr. Williams Wynn
59585756"Reverting, then, to the ancient rule of practice, it was invariably the custom of that House to commit any person who made himself the instrument of calling into question its privileges. Upon that rule of practice, he did feel it his duty to state his opinion, that the solicitor who had caused the notice of action to be served upon the Speaker should be committed. Such a course was not alone the practice of that House; it was acted upon in all courts invested with the power of commitment for a contempt of its jurisdiction. In the Court of Chancery, for instance, where an injunction had been granted to stay proceedings in an action at law, the attorney who would, after such injunction, venture to proceed, would subject himself to an attachment, and be most certainly punished for a contempt of the jurisdiction of that court. Was not, then, the House of Commons fully empowered to take steps against a solicitor who had proceeded to call its Speaker to answer for conduct taken in obedience to its will, and which that House had adjudged to be necessary for the protection of its privileges? Most undoubtedly it was; and as, in such a case, the most correct line was to follow the conduct of their ancestors, the enforcement of such a right in the present instance was most advisable. The next question to be considered was, the peculiar situation in which the Speaker of that House was at present placed. To many Members it appeared a most monstrous novelty, that the Speaker of the House of Commons should be obliged to appear in one of the courts below for an act which he had done in pursuance of the orders of that House. A novel proceeding it certainly was, for which there was no precedent; as to an action brought against the Speaker, the instances were rare. Yet monstrous as it appeared to some, and novel as it must seem to all, it was his firm persuasion that the Speaker ought to appear and put in his plea to the action. Such course was open to him without
5655545352 said, that if they had not been obliged to enter into considerations, other than those which concerned the question immediately before the House, it would have needed but a short discussion. The immediate question before the House was, that the sheriffs be discharged from custody; and that motion, as he conceived, had been placed upon two grounds. The one was in contradiction to that which had been repeatedly resolved by that House, namely—that there existed no such privilege as the House had asserted; that the House had done wrong in committing the sheriffs; and that they could not take too early an opportunity of repairing that error by at once discharging the sheriffs from custody. The view of the question had also been supported in a petition which had been
59585756"Reverting, then, to the ancient rule of practice, it was invariably the custom of that House to commit any person who made himself the instrument of calling into question its privileges. Upon that rule of practice, he did feel it his duty to state his opinion, that the solicitor who had caused the notice of action to be served upon the Speaker should be committed. Such a course was not alone the practice of that House; it was acted upon in all courts invested with the power of commitment for a contempt of its jurisdiction. In the Court of Chancery, for instance, where an injunction had been granted to stay proceedings in an action at law, the attorney who would, after such injunction, venture to proceed, would subject himself to an attachment, and be most certainly punished for a contempt of the jurisdiction of that court. Was not, then, the House of Commons fully empowered to take steps against a solicitor who had proceeded to call its Speaker to answer for conduct taken in obedience to its will, and which that House had adjudged to be necessary for the protection of its privileges? Most undoubtedly it was; and as, in such a case, the most correct line was to follow the conduct of their ancestors, the enforcement of such a right in the present instance was most advisable. The next question to be considered was, the peculiar situation in which the Speaker of that House was at present placed. To many Members it appeared a most monstrous novelty, that the Speaker of the House of Commons should be obliged to appear in one of the courts below for an act which he had done in pursuance of the orders of that House. A novel proceeding it certainly was, for which there was no precedent; as to an action brought against the Speaker, the instances were rare. Yet monstrous as it appeared to some, and novel as it must seem to all, it was his firm persuasion that the Speaker ought to appear and put in his plea to the action. Such course was open to him without
5655545352Lord J. Russell
60 was unspeakably disappointed with the speech of the noble Lord. When the noble Lord admitted, that the sheriffs were in a position which exposed them to the greatest difficulty, and when he then urged the vindication of the privilege of the
60Mr. Kelly
61 doubted whether the motion which the noble Lord opposed was really worth dividing upon. If the House thought it was, he was ready to go to a division without a single word. But he must say, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last did not seem to him at all to appreciate the victory which those who thought with him gained. Why, what was the whole question involved in this discussion? For what was it that the hon. and learned Solicitor-general had said, that he was not ready to prorogue but to adjourn Parliament? For what was it that the right hon. Member for Tamworth declared himself ready to give up his seat? For the support of the resolution of thirty-seven, which he (Mr. Duncombe) then felt it his conscientious duty to oppose, and which he had ever since resisted under every phase. That resolution was simply this—"It is the law and privilege of Parliament, that this House has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to determine the existence and ex-
61Mr. T. Duncombe
62 defended the conduct of the sheriffs against the attacks of hon. Members who had accused them of not endeavouring to protect the privileges of the House. He denied the imputation. They had done and suffered everything in their power for the protection of those privileges. It was only yesterday, that there was a claim made on them by the assignees of the Insolvent Court, which was satisfied. To-day there had been an attachment issued against them. They had
62Sir M. Wood
l.l.68posse comitatus6766656463 said, the hon. Member for Finsbury had adverted to a former declaration of his, to which he adhered. If the House of Commons could not possess this privilege of free publication, without being held liable to be questioned or controlled by a court of law, not only would he retire from the performance of his public duties as a Member of that House, but he thought the House of Commons would take a fitting course in closing its doors, rather than by continuing, with maimed and mutilated powers, to hold out the semblance of a popular institution, without the power of discharging any one of the functions which belonged to such an assembly. The hon. Gentleman said, that the question now brought to issue was this—shall the House of Commons have the power of publishing defamatory matter, without giving to the individual defamed any means of redress? That was the issue on which he wished to rest the case. He said the House of Commons ought to have that power. Unless the House possessed the power necessary to serve the public interest, without liability to any question whatever, that was to say, without the power of any individual defamed to bring it under the cognizance of a court of law, the privileges of the House were at an end. There was one advantage which the discussion had obtained. No man on that night, or in the last debate, contended that the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench was a proper judgment. He had the authority of the Attorney and Solicitor general of the present Government; of the Attorney and Solicitor general of the last Government; he had the authority of his right hon. Friend who had filled the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland; he had the authority of his learned Friend the Member for Bandon, and of the right hon. Recorder for Dublin, himself acting in a judicial capacity; he had the authority of all these eminent men, some of whom questioning the propriety of the proceedings
l.l.68posse comitatus6766656463Sir R. Peel
69 scarcely understood what course the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth proposed. It appeared to him that he was going to give a conditional vote; for he had said, that if a declaratory bill were passed, then he would consent to liberate the sheriffs. Now, he asked the House whether it was right that the question of detaining the sheriffs in custody should depend upon the success of that proposed measure? The noble
69Mr. Darby
 said, I propose now to take the same course with regard to this action as I took with respect to that of the 1st of August, 1839. In that case the House determined that the report and minutes had been published by order of the House, and directed the Messrs. Hansard not to take any steps towards defending that action. It is clear to me, though I have stated my opinion as to the necessity for a declaratory bill, that this is the only course which in the meantime we can take, and I therefore move—"That the Messrs. Hansard be directed not to appear or plead to the action with notice of which they have been served."Lord J. Russell
l.72 said, that he would move as an amendment, the notice which stood first on the paper—"That the Messrs. Hansard be at liberty to defend the action, as they may be advised, not involving the privileges of this House." He could explain his object in a few words. They must either plead their privilege as before in bar of the action, or plead the nature of the work itself, as had been done in the first action, when the question went to the jury, whether it was an obscene work, and they found that it was; and Stockdale consequently recovered no damages, though in that action their privileges were considered no bar. After the course which had already been taken by the House, after they had pleaded, and retired when the decision was against them, and then pursued the ministerial officers, the plaintiff and his attorney, on
l.72Sir E. Sugden
73, in voting against the proposition of the noble Lord, would express his dissent to it as loudly as he could. If judgment were to go by default, damages would be given, and they would again have to pursue the same course as they had now taken; but the money would get into Mr. Stockdale's hands. The noble Lord had admitted that he was aware that by the present course they could not vindicate their privileges; and if a bill were to be introduced, what could be the object of taking the course proposed by the noble Lord? It would not help the progress of any bill. He said, on the contrary, "Plead to the action; and if he were asked what that plea was to be, he would say, that Messrs. Hansard should plead, "we made that publication by the order of the House of Commons." If they did not plead, what would be the result? They would have no bill—there would be a levy for the damages, and the sheriffs, and attorney, and plaintiff must be again committed. Surely then it would be better to plead. He would not indeed recommend the plea suggested by his right hon. Friend; but he said, let them plead, that Messrs. Hansard had published this with the authority of the House, and ask the
73Sir W. Follett
74Edward Sugden was not aware that he need say one word upon this question, since the two learned Gentlemen had completely answered each other. The first right hon. Gentleman said, that if they pleaded again in bar, they would be the laughing-stock of the whole world. He agreed with the hon. Member for Ripon, that they would be laughed at if they again instructed their Attorney-General to plead their privileges at bar in the Court of Queen's Bench. What, then, did the right hon. Gentleman propose to do? To leave Messrs. Hansard to do what they could in defence of an action brought against them for what they had done by the authority of that House. It was said, indeed, that in this case, there was no libel, because it was true. One jury had so concluded, and another might do the same. But what was to become of the next action against Messrs. Hansard for publishing something that might be perfectly true, and yet not capable of strict proof.—[Sir 74Edward SugdenThe Attorney-General
76 submitted that this motion could not properly be put to the House until it had received further evidence in the case. He would propose that Stockdale be called to the Bar, and be allowed the opportunity of making any statement, or offering any thing in explanation, that he might think proper. This at least was due to Stockdale before the House adopted
76Mr. Law
 asked, whether it were competent to the House to vote a man guilty of a breach of its privileges in a matter of this kind, without calling him to the Bar, and without any evidence.Sir Edward Sugden
 observed, that it was clearly competent to the House to proceed, if it were satisfied that Stockdale was the plaintiff in the action.The Speaker
 remarked, that there was much more evidence in this case than in the case of Sir John Hobhouse, when that right hon. Gentleman was called before the House.Lord John Russell
7 was understood to say, that the question whether the proceeds of these mines could be applied to the liquidation of the Duke of York's debts was still under litigation. As yet there had been no legal decision on the point in dispute. The only decision made was by the Colonial-office, that there should be reserved to the creditors of the Duke of York, if they could Drove his claim, the
7Lord J. Russell
 could not answer that question, as the whole affair was now in progress of investigation in a court of law.Lord J. Russell
 wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question respecting the transmission of the votes and proceedings of that House to different parties. Had any arrangement been made by which the votes and bills of the House of Commons might be transmitted post free by Members to their constituents, and by their constituents back again to different Members?Mr. Goulburn
 would now repeat the question which he had put on a former evening to the noble Secretary for the Colonies, by desire of several of his constituents, who were creditors of the late Duke of York. He wished to know whether the proceeds of the mines at Cape Breton, which had been decided to belong to the late Duke of York, were now applied to colonial purposes or to the liquidation of the debts of that illustrious personage?Mr. Leader
 wanted to know whether the noble Lord would have any objection to lay upon the table a copy of the original grant, by which these mines were granted from the public to the Duke of York, and under which they had been assigned to his creditors?Mr. Hume
: Would the noble Lord answer him one question more? In the year 1833, the Synod of Ulster had publicly stated the terms on which alone it would receive aid from the Board of Education. Now, he wanted to know, whether there had not been recently a conference between the Board of Education, a deputation from the synod of Ulster, and the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, and whether that conference had not terminated in an application for aid by the synod of Ulster? He also wanted to know whether that result had been brought about by the Synod of Ulster's abandoning its conditions of 1833, or by the board's abandoning its resolutions?Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 wished to put a question to the noble Secretary for Ireland, on a matter of deep interest and importance to the people of that country. He wanted to know whether any change had been made in the regulations under which the Board of Education made grants for schools, since the Committee of the House had sat upon the subject; and if a change had been made, he wanted to know what the nature of it was, and when it was made. He hoped that the noble Lord would give him a satisfactory answer, and save him from the necessity of asking the noble Lord some other questions?Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 wished to be informed whether any change had been made in the queries formerly circulated by the Board among the applicants for schools; and whether, in those applications, it was necessary or not that the application should be the joint application of the clergy of different persuasions?Mr. Sergeant Jackson
6 was much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for asking him this question. He
6The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had reason to believe that since his departure from Ireland, conferences had been held upon this subject between a deputation from the Synod of; Ulster and the Board of Education, and that at one of those conferences the Lord-lieutenant had been present. He had also reason to hope that the result of that conference would be the establishment of a perfectly good understanding between the Board of Education and the Synod of Ulster. But he did not understand that that good understanding either had arisen or would arise from any departure from the principles which either party had laid down. There had been a removal of misapprehensions, which he believed would ultimately be of great advantage to all parties.Viscount Morpeth
5 said, that the queries had never been publicly put forth in any document, but had always been regulated at the discretion of the board. A change had recently been made with respect to the queries. Instead of sending them to the applicants, they were sent by the board to the inspectors whom it had appointed, and by those inspectors they were now filled up. With regard to the applications, he did not know that there had been any alteration in the mode in which the aid must be asked for in order to be given. It was laid down in the letter of the noble Lord, who was the founder of
5Viscount Morpeth
 said, that the only change which he knew of was one stated in the report of the Board of Education for 1838, which permitted the local committees and patrons of schools to set apart certain hours out of the regular hours for school instruction for the purpose of communicating religious instruction.Viscount Morpeth
 would also recommend the hon. Gentleman to adopt the course pointed out by the right hon. Gentleman.Sir George Strickland
lll107106ds"Be so good as to convey my thanks to my friends, who have administered to my temporal necessities; I feel that I shall not require such aid long, as my health is giving way under my imprisonment in a damp prison.""The blessings of the gospel were purchased without money or price; and he was ready to prove, that he had paid more, according to his means, towards the erection of places of public worship than any four of his persecutors.""He hoped that the efforts of his friends in Parliament might be successful who were exerting themselves to pass a law to relieve those who conscientiously objected to an Establishment."105John Russell:John Russell104 did not think that some of the observations of his noble Friend in reference to the individual referred to in this case could be justified. Tie noble Lord had assumed that John Thorogood had declared that he would not obey the law; whereas, in point of fact, he was made liable to the severe penalty of it. He also thought that viewing the case in another light, John Thorogood had not been very fairly dealt with; that person said that he thought it a great hardship that he should be sent to prison for non-pay-merit of a church-rate, while persons in such places as Leeds, Manchester, Leicester, and Nottingham were allowed to escape not only without imprisonment, but with impunity, though they refused to pay these rates. Was not the noble Lord aware, that the inhabitants of Sheffield had not paid any church-rates for twenty years? In his view, if any principle of fairness was to be acted upon, the Church should have dealt with the inhabitants of Sheffield as it had dealt with John Thorogood. But no, they did not do so, and they only proceeded against the latter because they knew that he could not defend himself. At Man-
lll107106ds"Be so good as to convey my thanks to my friends, who have administered to my temporal necessities; I feel that I shall not require such aid long, as my health is giving way under my imprisonment in a damp prison.""The blessings of the gospel were purchased without money or price; and he was ready to prove, that he had paid more, according to his means, towards the erection of places of public worship than any four of his persecutors.""He hoped that the efforts of his friends in Parliament might be successful who were exerting themselves to pass a law to relieve those who conscientiously objected to an Establishment."105John Russell:John Russell104Mr. Banies
127 said, that he was certainly surprised at the grounds upon which this inquiry was granted by the Government,
127Mr. Hope
 said that certainly, while he should vote inquiry, he was of opinion that the result of that inquiry would be to show that the Court of Session had not too many judges properly to discharge the duties that were imposed upon them. His opinion in 1834 was that the judges could not safely be reduced below the number of thirteen, and also his opinion was, that the court was well constituted, and to those opinions he still adhered. The circumstance of the judges of the Supreme Court performing a very large and a very important part of their duties in their chambers, instead of performing them in open court, had led to an opinion among persons out of the profession, that the judges were too numerous; and he thought that the best way to disabuse the minds of the people of such wrong impressions was to have a deliberate and impartial inquiry before a committee of the House.The Lord Advocate
134 should most willingly concede to the proposition of the hon. Member for Wigan, so far as the returns which would show what quantity of land had been granted to English settlers since the passing of the East India Charter Act
134Sir J. Hobhouse
 Jackson had understood the noble Lord to say, that Sir John Newport was in Ireland at the time the application was made. It must, of necessity, therefore, have been made by letter.Mr. Serjeant
, (he medical attendant of Mr. Wheelton, was called in and examined. In reply to questions put by the Speaker, he said, that. Mr. Wheelton had, for the last three months, suffered from congestion of the vessels of the head, and, independently of that, he had a predisposition to disease of that character, his father and mother having both died suddenly. Mr. Wheelton had a very short neck, and from his general frame and habit of body, was likely to be a subject for apoplexy. He had no doubt, that unless very great care was taken of him, his life would be endangered. He could not answer for it, that an attack of apoplexy would not come on even from hour to hour. It was his decided opinion, that his life would be endangered if he continued longer in confinement.Mr. William Brookes
 again called in, and the evidence he had given was read to him by the clerk at the bar.Mr. Brookes
 ordered to be discharged without paying his fees.Mr. Sheriff Wheelton
 concurred with the right hon. Baronet in thinking that the House should reserve to itself the power of inquiry generally whenever it saw it necessary. He thought it of the utmost importance that all divorce cases should be by act of Parliament.Mr. Law
121120 said it was not the in-
121120Mr. Fox Maule
139l1"I must confess I see no reason why the Clerk of the Pells should not perform the duties of the Comptroller, by which means an additional saving of about 2,0001l138Cheersll"That nothing in this act contained shall extend or be construed to extend to, or authorize the adding to such list any offices held under military and naval commissions, entitling the holders of the same to half-pay, or any military or naval allowance in lieu of, or in addition to half-pay, &c, or the Comptroller of His Majesty's Exchequer, or any offices in relation to which the granting of any allowances for past services has been specially regulated by any act," &c.ll137lllllll136llll135 said, that on rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, he trusted it was unnecessary for him to disclaim, at starting, being actuated by any feeling at all adverse to the parties involved in the transaction to which that, motion had reference. He had long had the pleasure of a friendly acquaintance with the noble Lord, whose name appeared on the face of the notice, and for that noble Lord he entertained feelings of friendly regard—feelings which he believed pervaded Members sitting on both sides of the House. Nothing but a sense of public duty induced him to bring the matter under the consideration of the House, and if in the course of the discussion, any observation should be made calculated to wound the feelings of that noble Lord, he could only say, he should feel deep regret. He was aware, that according to law, if he had waited until a later period of the Session, some of the papers, for which he meant to move, must be laid upon the Table of the House; but the reason why he forestalled the time prescribed by the Act of Parliament, was, that he considered there were matters in question, which warranted him in entertaining suspicions as to the circumstances of the transaction. Those circumstances it would be his duty to detail to the House in the clearest, and at the same time the shortest manner possible. In doing so, he should best discharge his
139l1"I must confess I see no reason why the Clerk of the Pells should not perform the duties of the Comptroller, by which means an additional saving of about 2,0001l138Cheersll"That nothing in this act contained shall extend or be construed to extend to, or authorize the adding to such list any offices held under military and naval commissions, entitling the holders of the same to half-pay, or any military or naval allowance in lieu of, or in addition to half-pay, &c, or the Comptroller of His Majesty's Exchequer, or any offices in relation to which the granting of any allowances for past services has been specially regulated by any act," &c.ll137lllllll136llll135Mr. Liddell
 in reply, said, that he had never denied that public services ought to be rewarded; but what he maintained was, that the reward should be given, not for Parliamentary, but for official services. With regard to the character of the transaction, when he considered that the retirement of Lord Monteagle from the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer, was simultaneous with that of Sir John Newport, and that he had not heard the explanation which had since been offered by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he might be excused for saying that the transaction was prima facie suspicious. Having now heard the explanation which the right hon. Gentleman had given, he must say, that it might have been more satisfactory.Mr. Liddell
 was not about to enter into the case of Sir J. Newport, but he must say, that the question put by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, had not been answered either by the hon. Gentleman or by the noble Lord. Did the noble Lord mean to say, that there were to be found no means of affording information to the House as to the date of the application made by Sir John Newport? He apprehended the noble Lord must be able to say at least, whether the application was made by letter or not.Lord G. Somerset
 approved of the principle of the clause, but doubted whether it ought to apply to acts already in progress.Lord Granville Somerset
9998"The pulpit's laws the pulpit's patrons give, For those who live to please must please to live.""The drama's laws the drama's patrons give, For those who live to please must please to live."97dsds969594ds observed, that there were various questions which were raised by the motion of the hon. Gentleman. The first question was that which was connected with the case of Mr. John Thorogood, and he thought that his case hardly deserved the character given of it by the hon. Gentleman—namely, that Mr. Thorogood was a person suffering conscientiously in a cause which was entitled to the consideration and the support of Parliament. It appeared from the petition of Mr. Thorogood himself, that he had been summoned to appear before the Ecclesiastical Court of London, and that he had refused to pay the Church-rates demanded of him, because he did not choose to appear before a court constituted on rules equally repulsive to constitutional principles and to common sense. Now, he was very sorry to find that any persons should suffer themselves to be imprisoned on grounds like these. He owned he did not think that every and any individual in the country was entitled to say before what court he would or would not appear, whether the demand for which he was sued was made valid by an Act of Parliament or by the common law, and that he himself should be the judge, according to his own views, principles, and opinions, whether he was justified in refusing to pay obedience to the summons of that court. For this reason he thought that it was not a fair representation of the case to state that this man had been detained in prison about thirteen months for his refusal to pay a church-rate of 59998"The pulpit's laws the pulpit's patrons give, For those who live to please must please to live.""The drama's laws the drama's patrons give, For those who live to please must please to live."97dsds969594dsLord John Russell
 could not say whether the application was made by letter or not, nor did he know, as the transaction was in no way connected with the office which he held, whether there were any means of ascertaining the exact date of Sir John Newport's application. All that he knew on the subject was from Lord Melbourne and Lord Duncannon. Lord Duncannon had received the application from Sir John Newport, and had mentioned to Lord Melbourne that Sir John Newport wished to retire. He believed it was frequently the case, that applications of that nature were not made in writing; but he was not able to say, whether the application was in this instance made by letter or not.Lord J. Russell
 suggested, that the motion of the right hon. Baronet should state that Mr. Wheelton's life would be endangered by further confinement.Lord J. Russell
153l152151ll150 said, that after the
153l152151ll150Lord John Russell
, in opposing the motion, observed that the hon. Member for Falkirk had omitted in his estimate of the sittings of the court the taking into calculation the time devoted by the judges to criminal business, as also to jury trials.Mr. Pringle
114 could not agree with his right hon. Friend in the reasons which he had given for supporting the noble Lord on the Treasury Bench. His right hon. Friend ought at least to vote for the introduction of the bill. It was alleged that such a bill would have the effect of introducing a new test, but that would not be a test of a man's belief, but his dissent from a particular system, and that, as he apprehended, made a very material difference. Whatever weight there might be in the objection of his right hon. Friend, there was nothing in it which could not be obviated in committee: for example, no one need be recognized as a Dissenter who did not produce evidence of subscribing to and attending some place of worship other than one belonging to the Established Church. He had a strong objection to the recommendation of the Commissioners, for he conceived that its effect would be altogether to change the nature of Church-rates. At present Church-rates
114Mr. Hawes
 asked, if the evidence as read to him by the clerk, had been correctly taken down?The Speaker
 stated it to be his opinion that persons in custody of the Sergeant, who had been ordered into confinement by the House, and whose health, it was stated, would be endangered by further confinement, ought to be at once discharged by the House without payment of their fees.The Speaker
 explained. He did not wish to bolster up his case, nor did it require it. If he mistook, in thinking that the rector had any connection with the churchwardens in the prosecution, he had not the slighest objection to correct the impression which be had formed.Mr. Baines
 would maintain, when the proper time came for the discussion, that it was necessary to reserve to Parliament the right of ultimately deciding on divorce questions.Mr. Goulburn
 rose in pursuance of notice, to move that all divorce bills be referred during the present Session to a select committee of nine Members. He stated, that he considered this course the best calculated to give satisfaction to parties concerned in such cases, and to the House, as the details would be subjected to the examination of a committee of Members, some of whom, as Sir E. Sugden, and Sir C. Grey, had held judicial offices.Mr. Labouchere
 hoped his hon. Friend would not press the adjournment, as the plan which he proposed was admitted to be better than that which at present existed.Mr. Labouchere
88 thought, that there was an objection to legislating on these matters one by one when there was a committee sitting on the whole subject of railways; and he recommended, the hon. Gentleman to refer the clause to that
88Mr. Labouchere
158No, no had very strong objections to sending the inquiry, in cases of divorce, to a secret tribunal. He had understood that to be so from the observation of one speaker, but he could not say which. He would object to any inquiry with closed doors. [158No, noMr. Warburton
 said, he had much pleasure in acceding to the request which had been made.Mr. Barneby
"That a clause to the following effect be inserted in all the Railroad and Canal bills which may pass through Parliament during the present Session:—And be it enacted, that no bridge or tunnel, or approaches to the same, for carrying any other public carriage road over or under any part of a railroad or canal, shall be made or constructed of less width between the fences, walls, or parapets thereof, than twenty-one feet; nor shall any bridge or tunnel, or approaches to the same, for carrying any other public carriage road over or under any part of a railroad or canal, be made or constructed of less width between the fences, walls, or parapet thereof than sixteen feet, nor in any case less than so much greater width, not exceeding thirty feet, as may be the average width of the turnpike or other public carriage road for one hundred yards on each side of that part of the railroad or canal where any bridge or tunnel is intended to be made or constructed; and that the committee on the bill do report specially to the House that this resolution has been complied with." rose to move the following resolution, of which he had given notice:—
"That a clause to the following effect be inserted in all the Railroad and Canal bills which may pass through Parliament during the present Session:—And be it enacted, that no bridge or tunnel, or approaches to the same, for carrying any other public carriage road over or under any part of a railroad or canal, shall be made or constructed of less width between the fences, walls, or parapets thereof, than twenty-one feet; nor shall any bridge or tunnel, or approaches to the same, for carrying any other public carriage road over or under any part of a railroad or canal, be made or constructed of less width between the fences, walls, or parapet thereof than sixteen feet, nor in any case less than so much greater width, not exceeding thirty feet, as may be the average width of the turnpike or other public carriage road for one hundred yards on each side of that part of the railroad or canal where any bridge or tunnel is intended to be made or constructed; and that the committee on the bill do report specially to the House that this resolution has been complied with."Mr. Barneby
103l.102101d.,s.s.,100J. Russell regretted, that the noble Lord had come to such a conclusion, after having so fully stated the grounds of the grievances of the Dissenters, and that he should contemplate the continuance of that evil which he admitted ought for the sake of the Church to be remedied. He must also say he was very much surprised to hear the noble Lord state he had no sympathy for the sufferings of John Thorogood. Did the noble Lord mean to say, that a person who, for conscientious motives, was placed in a worse situation than that of many persons guilty of atrocious crimes, because not subjected to a longer imprisonment than that to which John Thorogood had been subjected, and whose character was admitted to be of the most exemplary kind, was not worthy of sympathy? What was the position the noble Lord placed himself in? He declared, that he had no sympathy for that individual, and he did not make any distinction between a criminal imprisoned for the most atrocious crimes, and this person who had suffered his imprisonment for conscience sake. The noble Lord had read portions of the petition—he wished the noble Lord had read that passage in which the petitioner said, that he approached that hon. House complaining of a cruel and unjust law. Did the noble Lord deny, that the law was cruel and unjust? [Lord 103l.102101d.,s.s.,100J. RussellMr. Hume
126 considered, that when her Majesty's Government had determined upon an increase of the salaries of the judges last session, they were now only doing their duty by making an inquiry into the complaints made by him and others. They had returns showing that the business in the Scotch courts had declined one-fourth within the last few years. Now, all that he and others wanted was inquiry. The hon. Baronet opposite had made no objection to a committee having for its object the increase of the salaries of the judges; but he now objected to a committee to inquire whether the number of hours for their sitting might not be enlarged, or the vacancies amongst them not filled up. For himself he was prepared to say that he would not make
126Mr. Hume
154 said, that he had asked a particular question of the noble Lord, because he did not wish to offer any opinion on the subject, before he was in possession of the precise facts of the case. He should say nothing now upon the grant made to Sir John Newport, but he must enter his protest against the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman, that
154Mr. Hume
 did not wish to make any observations upon the present question; but he would ask whether there would be laid before the House a copy of the application of Sir John Newport, for retirement, and for a pension, and also a statement of Sir John's services? Because he did not take the services in Parliament as a justification for a pension.Mr. Hume
 said, that he did not mean to move for a letter, which, according to the right hon. Gentleman, did not exist. He only asked if there was any letter. An extract had been read, and he thought, that the House should be put in possession of the date of the letter from which that was taken, which would at once remove all cavil.Mr. Hume
157 said, that the Government ought to have removed this inquiry from the House long ago. The House had already too much business to attend, and ought not to be burdened with what was
157Mr. Hume
 wished to have it understood whether the sheriff was to be discharged on payment of his fees in the usual way, or otherwise.Mr. Hume
 observed, that after the statement made that Mr. Wheelton's life would be endangered, he should not oppose the motion, but he wished that the statement of Mr. Brookes should be taken down as evidence. It would, perhaps, be enough for the clerk of the House to put down, that Mr. Wheelton's life would be endangered by further confinement.Mr. Hume
115 wished, to make an ob-
115Mr. Mildmay
 said, that the inquiry sought for by the hon. Member for Greenock was one which that House might well and properly entertain. He did not vote for inquiry, because he agreed with the hon. Member for Kilkenny and the hon. Member for Greenock that the result would be to prove that the number of the judges was too great. On the contrary, he had last year voted for giving an increased salary to the judges, because he considered that they were insufficiently paid, and he would now vote for the proposed inquiry, because he was sure that not only were not the judges overpaid, but also that the number was by no means too great. With a fair committee, presided over of Member a by the Government, and uninfluenced by party spirit, he was satisfied that the truth would be elicited, and it would be generally acknowledged that the constitution of the courts of Scotland was of the description and character required, and that the number of judges was not greater than was required for the due performance of the functions imposed upon them.Mr. R. Steuart
119118 said, that it was a considerable number of years since he had first introduced to the House the subject of the motion he was about to make. During that period the business of the Supreme Courts in Scotland had very considerably decreased, and a very large increase had taken place in the salaries of the judges. At the time when the salaries were increased, he believed it had been in the contemplation of the noble Lord, the leader of the House, that the question now about to be submitted to the House should be taken into consideration—namely, whether with a large decrease in the business of the Supreme Courts the same number of
119118Mr. Wallace
131 in reply, said, he was anxious to have this inquiry, as having respect to the court and to the judges, and as one which would be acceptable. An hon. Member had taunted him with saying that every Scotch Member had his price. He begged to say, that there had been three Parliaments which had seen a Scotchman without a price. Did any hon. Member contradict that. He had been daily in the habit of voting in the teeth of Government, as well as with it, and he would tell the House, that at any rate he was not to be caught with chaff. Which of the two things would hon.' Members give him—half the judges' salaries or their
131Mr. Wallace,
ll113maximumdsds112l"JOHN THOROGOOD.""Dated this 9th day of November, 1838.bonâ fide"To her Majesty's justices of the peace, acting in and for the county of Essex, and particularly to such as act in and for the division of Chelmsford, in the said county.—I, the undersigned John Thorogood, of Chelmsford, in the county of Essex, shoemaker, do hereby give you notice, that I dispute the validity of the last church-rate made, or alleged to be made, for the parish of Chelmsford, in this county of Essex; and I further give you notice, that my reasons for disputing the validity of the same are amongst others as follows:—1. That the rate was granted upon certain accounts for the year preceding, several items of which were illegally charged, and ought not to have been paid. 2. That the said rate was in reality granted for, and expended in, payment of money spent or contracted for by the preceding churchwardens, or otherwise for their reimburse, meat. 3. That no proper estimates for the prospective expenditure were produced at the vestry meeting at which the said rate was granted. 4. That the said rate was improperly and unequally assessed upon the various occupiers of property in the parish of Chelmsford. And I hereby give you notice, that it is my bonâ fide111l said, he should take the liberty of communicating to the House some little information connected with the case of Thorogood, which, notwithstanding the petitions presented on the subject, was necessary to a proper and complete elucidation of the matter before the House. By an Act of Parliament passed some time before the proceedings in this case, the ecclesiastical courts were deprived of any jurisdiction whatever in church-rate causes where the amount was, in the first instance, under 10ll113maximumdsds112l"JOHN THOROGOOD.""Dated this 9th day of November, 1838.bonâ fide"To her Majesty's justices of the peace, acting in and for the county of Essex, and particularly to such as act in and for the division of Chelmsford, in the said county.—I, the undersigned John Thorogood, of Chelmsford, in the county of Essex, shoemaker, do hereby give you notice, that I dispute the validity of the last church-rate made, or alleged to be made, for the parish of Chelmsford, in this county of Essex; and I further give you notice, that my reasons for disputing the validity of the same are amongst others as follows:—1. That the rate was granted upon certain accounts for the year preceding, several items of which were illegally charged, and ought not to have been paid. 2. That the said rate was in reality granted for, and expended in, payment of money spent or contracted for by the preceding churchwardens, or otherwise for their reimburse, meat. 3. That no proper estimates for the prospective expenditure were produced at the vestry meeting at which the said rate was granted. 4. That the said rate was improperly and unequally assessed upon the various occupiers of property in the parish of Chelmsford. And I hereby give you notice, that it is my bonâ fide111lSir S. Lushington
116 in reply, observed, that from I he speech of the right hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, it might be imagined that John Thorogood cited John Thorogood before the Ecclesiastical Court, whereas he was cited to appear by the right hon. and learned Member himself. The hon. Member read the Citation, and went on to say, that Thorogood not appearing to that citation, the punishment was inflicted by the right hon. Member himself upon Thorogood. The right hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, would vote for any rational measure which should be brought in by a Member of the House. The right hon. and learned Gentleman also stated, that he did not think that this measure would meet the approbation of the leading Dissenters. Now, he had consulted some of the leading members of the Dissenting body with respect to this measure, and they all concurred in thinking that it was not Only just in principle, bat would be found simple and easy in Operation. He Was not surprised at the right Hon. Member for the University of Oxford resisting this measure; but he did not think it ought to meet the opposition
116Mr. T. Duncombe,
92en masse"The excitement to-day in this town by far surpasses anything ever before witnessed in Margate; everything in the shape of business is at a complete stand-still. The advocates for the rate are exerting themselves with their whole might; every Cobbite is doing all that money and influence can accomplish. The various workmen of the leading men of this party are sent into the Church to vote in dozens; many of them forget their instructions, and upon arriving at the poll table can give no other answer than that they vote for Mr. Cobb, Mr. Rammell, or Mr. Somebody else, upon that side; after being turned from the table for being too stupid to give an answer, they receive a fresh lesson, return, and vote. At the close of the day's poll the numbers were:—For the rate 345, against it 300; majority 45. Saturday morning: Up to two o'clock p.m. the advocates for the rate gained upon the non-raters; at this hour, however, the inhabitants became conscious, for the first time, of defeat; and, vexed beyond measure at the overbearing behaviour of the Cobbites, rose en masse91"The Government has made various attempts to avert these calamities; but opposed, sometimes by Churchmen, sometimes by Dissenters, their efforts have been of no avail. Vestries continue to be scenes of discord more discreditable than the worst of popular elections in the worst of times. There is but one remedy, and that remedy is justice. The Churches belong to the establishment. The worship celebrated within their walls is for members of the establishment. Let vestries for Church-rates be attended by none but members of the establishment; and let the Church-rate they impose be assessed on none but members of the establishment. As a Church establishment and endowed by law, in subordination to the state for all her civil rights, the Church will continue to possess her lands, rents, and other legal emoluments; while the repair of her Churches and the expense of her worship will be defrayed by members of her own communion. The indecent contentions that disgrace our present vestries will be prevented. Rectors will have no longer occasion to stuff their ears with cotton, as some of them do at present, before they venture into the vestry-room. Dissenters will have no pretext to intrude themselves into meetings where the subject of discussion is a Church-rate from which they are exempted; and, if any of them were to show himself there his presence at the vestry ought to subject him to his quota of the tax."Edinburgh Review.90"I, A. B., do solemnly and sincerely declare that I am not of the communion of the Church of England, as by law established, but I do dissent there from; and I do solemnly de-
9089dsds"That it appears by certain papers laid before this House, that John Thorogood, a Protestant Dissenter, has been confined in her Majesty's county gaol of Essex since the 16th day of January last, for neglecting to appear in the Consistorial Court of the Bishop of London, for the non-payment of 5dsds said, that towards the close of the last Session of Parliament, he had called the attention of the House to the case of John Thorogood, who was confined in her Majesty's gaol of Chelmsford, under the authority of the Consistorial Court of the Bishop of London, for the non-payment of 592en masse"The excitement to-day in this town by far surpasses anything ever before witnessed in Margate; everything in the shape of business is at a complete stand-still. The advocates for the rate are exerting themselves with their whole might; every Cobbite is doing all that money and influence can accomplish. The various workmen of the leading men of this party are sent into the Church to vote in dozens; many of them forget their instructions, and upon arriving at the poll table can give no other answer than that they vote for Mr. Cobb, Mr. Rammell, or Mr. Somebody else, upon that side; after being turned from the table for being too stupid to give an answer, they receive a fresh lesson, return, and vote. At the close of the day's poll the numbers were:—For the rate 345, against it 300; majority 45. Saturday morning: Up to two o'clock p.m. the advocates for the rate gained upon the non-raters; at this hour, however, the inhabitants became conscious, for the first time, of defeat; and, vexed beyond measure at the overbearing behaviour of the Cobbites, rose en masse91"The Government has made various attempts to avert these calamities; but opposed, sometimes by Churchmen, sometimes by Dissenters, their efforts have been of no avail. Vestries continue to be scenes of discord more discreditable than the worst of popular elections in the worst of times. There is but one remedy, and that remedy is justice. The Churches belong to the establishment. The worship celebrated within their walls is for members of the establishment. Let vestries for Church-rates be attended by none but members of the establishment; and let the Church-rate they impose be assessed on none but members of the establishment. As a Church establishment and endowed by law, in subordination to the state for all her civil rights, the Church will continue to possess her lands, rents, and other legal emoluments; while the repair of her Churches and the expense of her worship will be defrayed by members of her own communion. The indecent contentions that disgrace our present vestries will be prevented. Rectors will have no longer occasion to stuff their ears with cotton, as some of them do at present, before they venture into the vestry-room. Dissenters will have no pretext to intrude themselves into meetings where the subject of discussion is a Church-rate from which they are exempted; and, if any of them were to show himself there his presence at the vestry ought to subject him to his quota of the tax."Edinburgh Review.90"I, A. B., do solemnly and sincerely declare that I am not of the communion of the Church of England, as by law established, but I do dissent there from; and I do solemnly de-
9089dsds"That it appears by certain papers laid before this House, that John Thorogood, a Protestant Dissenter, has been confined in her Majesty's county gaol of Essex since the 16th day of January last, for neglecting to appear in the Consistorial Court of the Bishop of London, for the non-payment of 5dsdsMr. T. Duncombe
93, in seconding the motion, could not help expressing his abhorrence and disgust at the atrocities perpetrated in the course of the collection of Church-rates, for, with whatever respect the Established Church might be viewed in that House, there were great numbers of people in this country who felt a great repugnance to it. In the country to which he himself belonged, there was no passage in their history to which the people referred with so much exultation as to the battles which they waged, not against Popery, but against the tyrannical intrusion of Prelacy into the Church of Scotland. He thought, that a demand for Church-rates came with a very ill grace from the
93Mr. Gillon
 had, he said, given his opposition to the increase of salaries last session, on the ground of the small amount of duties performed by the Scotch judges. If a comparison were made between the salaries of the Scotch and English judges, would it not be fair also to compare the amount of duties respectively performed by them. Why was the House to inquire into the means of increasing their salaries without ascertaining what were their duties? According to a calculation he had made, the first division of the Court of Session only sat thirty-four days: the second division did not sit more than twenty-six days, and the Lords Ordinary did not sit more than forty-seven days eight hours, each, in the whole year. The support of the present motion was the only redeeming apology for their passing the Bill of last session.Mr. Gillon
 said, this was a question of the utmost importance, and could not be overrated; but he believed that the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, had not given it due consideration. Much did he regret that the noble Lord was not inclined to allow this bill to be introduced, for he thought that in a short time it would be impossible to collect the Church-rates in any large town, and the feeling against them would grow stronger every day. Let the House consider the obligations the country was under to the Dissenting body, especially in providing instruction and spiritual consolation to the lower classes. In England and Wales there were not less than 8,000 Dissenting places of worship, with congregations, consisting of, at least, 250,000 persons. It was erroneous to suppose that the Dissenters had any feeling against the Church; their objection was not to the Church, but to the payment of Church-rates, and they justly thought that some means ought to be adopted to relieve them from what they considered a most obnoxious tax.Mr. Wynne Ellis
 then moved, "That it having been stated by W. Broaches, esq., medical attendant on J. Wheelton, esq., that in his judgment Mr. Wheelton's life will be endangered by further confinement, the sheriff be forthwith discharged from the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this House."Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, that perhaps the House would excuse him if he now mentioned a circumstance which had come to his knowledge in the course of the evening, affecting the situation of one of the sheriffs of London—Mr. Wheelton. He understood, that his health had been so much impaired by his imprisonment, that it would be scarcely consistent with the safety of his life, if he were kept longer in custody. He had seen the medical gentleman who attended Mr. Wheelton, and he had assured him, that Mr. Wheelton's health had been very indifferent for some time before he was placed in confinement, and he thought, that if he were kept longer in custody it would endanger his life. The surgeon was in attendance, and ready to be examined if the House thought proper.Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, he should hope that after the statement made by the medical attendant of Mr. Wheelton, it would be consistent with the feeling of the House that he should be discharged.Sir E. Knatchbull
146"With regard to the propriety of the Government appointing Mr. Ellis as comptroller, instead of appointing another individual, I will simply state the grounds on which I think the House ought to leave this matter to the Government. Every man must agree, that the appointment to the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer is an appointment of the greatest importance; and as his Majesty's Government are responsible for the appointments they make, they will naturally nominate persons such as they may think fit for the duties assigned to them. I am most happy to hear from every hon. Member who has spoken (and which meets with my most entire concurrence), that Mr. Ellis is a gentleman deserving of the compensation assigned to him. The question, however, is whether the Government ought to have appointed that Gentleman as comptroller-general or assistant-comptroller. That is a question which it is scarcely possible to argue in this House, it being one which Government have always had intrusted to them to be disposed of on their own discretion and responsibility. Government have a right to make the choice of their own officer free and unencumbered, and I certainly shall decline entering further into this question, upon the principle that it is for the Government, and not the House of Commons to make this appointment."145lCheers144ll1lllll1ll143142141"That my intended resignation was entirely unconnected with your appointment, and adopted, on my part, without concert with you or any other person is most certain, and that it arose wholly from those increased infirmities of age which rendered retirement to my native home most desirable, even if I had been obliged to relinquish all claim to the pension which I enjoy, and which the pecuniary embarrassments that have, by parliamentary pursuits, involved heavily a very moderate, and, I might say, a very small private fortune, compelled me to look for very reluctantly."140"I will move for papers; if you refuse them I will call Upon those Gentlemen who are in the habit of carrying on economical investigations, to join with me for the purpose of compelling their production; but if you, the Government, consent to give, not only the papers but any other information you may happen to
140 assured the hon. Gentleman, that he should certainly hear no complaints from him, that he had brought this question before the House previously to the production of the papers, one of which, at least, he was bound to lay on the table of the House, by act of Parliament, within a short time; so far from offering any complaint, he was most happy that an opportunity had been afforded to him of meeting those insinuations and those accusations which he confessed he had never expected to hear in that House, but which had been faithfully put forward by the hon. Gentleman. And, first, he would allude to the most novel and most extraordinary doctrine propounded, in the latter part of the hon. Gentleman's speech. He said,
146"With regard to the propriety of the Government appointing Mr. Ellis as comptroller, instead of appointing another individual, I will simply state the grounds on which I think the House ought to leave this matter to the Government. Every man must agree, that the appointment to the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer is an appointment of the greatest importance; and as his Majesty's Government are responsible for the appointments they make, they will naturally nominate persons such as they may think fit for the duties assigned to them. I am most happy to hear from every hon. Member who has spoken (and which meets with my most entire concurrence), that Mr. Ellis is a gentleman deserving of the compensation assigned to him. The question, however, is whether the Government ought to have appointed that Gentleman as comptroller-general or assistant-comptroller. That is a question which it is scarcely possible to argue in this House, it being one which Government have always had intrusted to them to be disposed of on their own discretion and responsibility. Government have a right to make the choice of their own officer free and unencumbered, and I certainly shall decline entering further into this question, upon the principle that it is for the Government, and not the House of Commons to make this appointment."145lCheers144ll1lllll1ll143142141"That my intended resignation was entirely unconnected with your appointment, and adopted, on my part, without concert with you or any other person is most certain, and that it arose wholly from those increased infirmities of age which rendered retirement to my native home most desirable, even if I had been obliged to relinquish all claim to the pension which I enjoy, and which the pecuniary embarrassments that have, by parliamentary pursuits, involved heavily a very moderate, and, I might say, a very small private fortune, compelled me to look for very reluctantly."140"I will move for papers; if you refuse them I will call Upon those Gentlemen who are in the habit of carrying on economical investigations, to join with me for the purpose of compelling their production; but if you, the Government, consent to give, not only the papers but any other information you may happen to
140The Chancellor of the Exchequer
: The only ground on which he assented to the motion was, that he was not aware of any application having been made. If the hon. Member moved for the letter it would be necessarily discovered whether it really existed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
125124123122 said, it was impossible for him to give a silent vote upon this occasion. On several former occasions he had felt it his duty to vote against similar motions, but on those occasions he had not felt it necessary to trouble the House with any observations, and was satisfied to rest his case upon the arguments brought forward by the Government. The hon. Member for Greenock had brought forward a similar motion last year, and he was then opposed by the Lord Advocate and the Attorney-General, and his motion was only supported by the hon. Member for Kilkenny and by another Member. In fact, so little support had the hon. Member for Greenock on that occasion, that he had not thought it necessary to divide the House. He now again brought forward this motion with no new facts or new arguments to support him, or to induce the House to grant a committee. The only new argument was that which had been stated by the Under-Secretary of State, that because the House last year increased the salaries of the judges they should now think it necessary to inquire whether they had over-paid them, or whether their number was greater than was necessary. He thought, that the Under-Secretary of State, in using that argument, gave a triumph to those who last year opposed his bill. It was objected on that occasion by the hon. Member for Greenock, that before that bill passed some inquiry should take place, and he believed he was correct in stating, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny moved an amendment to the effect, that the number of the judges ought to be reduced. He believed, that such an inquiry as the present was unprecedented with respect to the administration of the law either in England or Scotland. The hon. Member had said, that considerable dissatisfaction prevailed in Scotland at the mode in which the business was conducted in the Courts of Session. Now, if there were dissatisfaction, it had not arisen on account of adherence to anti-
125124123122Sir George Clerk
110109Patriot"The paragraph to which I refer is in the following words: 'That he did not appear to such citation because of the expenses that would attend upon such a proceeding.' Sir, it was certainly urged by the gentleman whom I saw at the 109PatriotSun108 concurred in much that had fallen from the noble Lord opposite in his argument against the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He should not be doing justice to his own feelings if he did not take upon himself his share of responsibility in opposing this motion after the speech of the noble Lord. That speech was
110109Patriot"The paragraph to which I refer is in the following words: 'That he did not appear to such citation because of the expenses that would attend upon such a proceeding.' Sir, it was certainly urged by the gentleman whom I saw at the 109PatriotSun108Sir R. Inglis
149lll148llll147 said, that it was quite impossible, nor did he understand his hon. Friend, the Member for Durham, to contest the claims of Sir John Newport to some provision. Although opposed to Sir John Newport on political subjects, he could not but say, that his claims to some provision out of the public funds was undoubted, at the expiration of his labours, which were, however, not so much in office as in his place in Parliament, if his circumstances required it. If they asked him, whether (at the age of eighty-four, after the long Parliamentary life of Sir
149lll148llll147Sir Robert Peel
 remarked, that all he had said was this, that it was laying down a most dangerous precedent to reward Parliamentary services. He did not say, that occasions might not arise when it would be proper to confer a pension for Parliamentary services, when a man had spent his life in Parliament, and was not in affluent circumstances, as in the case of Mr. Burke; but, at the same time, if there were special circumstances which justified a departure from what ought to be the general rule, he thought it was the duty of the Government to lay the facts before Parliament for its consideration.Sir R. Peel
130129128: I do not know who the Gentlemen are that the Lord Advocate has referred to, who ground their support of the increased salary of the Scotch Judges on the increase of business in their Courts. This not the argument I use, for I think it is a most dangerous one. When you place persons in any public situation, judicial or otherwise, you have a demand on all of their time. If not, where would increase of salaries stop? Why, there is not a Bill that passes this House but imposes some additional duties on the Secretaries of State; and yet, how would the House look if they were to come down on each of these occasions to ask for an increase of their salary? The ground I went on was that the salaries of the Scotch Judges were not sufficient to mark the distinction between the bench and the bar, or to secure the services of the best talents at the latter for seats on the former. I thought that the relation of the Judges to the advocates should be such as to secure a due superiority to the former, otherwise they would not meet with the respect to which the bench was entitled; and I thought it due to the country to purchase the highest talent at the bar to place it on the benches, when vacancies occurred. I do not mean to say that the income of the Judges from
130129128Sir R. Peel
 remarked, that it was distinctly stated that Mr. Wheelton had manifested symptoms of the disorder with which he was now threatened before he was placed in confinement, and that they had been aggravated since. He confessed, that after the statement made, that the sheriff's life would be endangered by his further detention, he, for one, would not continue him in confinement for a single hour.Sir R. Peel
 had no objection to try the plan of a select committee up stairs on divorce cases, but he would not take from the House the power of inquiry at its bar in such cases where it might deem such inquiry necessary. He had no doubt that in most cases the reference to a select committee would work well, but the fact that the House reserved to itself the power of going into a severe scrutiny, and of examining the parties at the bar, would operate as a salutary check on fraud and collusion. Indeed, one great object of Parliament keeping to itself the decision in such cases was intended to guard more strictly against cases of fraud and collusion. If the House was to continue to be a party to an act of Parliament, it ought not to delegate its right of inquiry to a select committee in all cases, but should reserve to itself generally the power of inquiry at its bar in cases where it might have ground to suspect fraud and collusion.Sir R. Peel
160l was decidedly opposed to the Bill. It would be impossible to dovetail an Act of seventy-four distinct clauses into the several different Acts which had been passed upon this subject, without producing the greatest doubt and confusion. The first Tithe Act was the 6th William 4th, and then there was the Act of the 1st Victoria, which had been followed by others on the same subject. The hon. Baronet said, that his object was to prevent the taking of tithe in kind, between the apportionment and the commutation. Now that might be a very good object, but it would not be attained under the proposed Bill, without great expense and inconvenience, and it would materially stand in the way of the justice of the apportionment. He found, that the expenses of the present Tithe Commission amounted to 60,000160lMr. Divett
161 could assure his hon. Friend, that this Bill had been introduced with the full concurrence of the Tithe Commissioners. When this measure was first proposed to the House, he had referred to the Tithe Commissioners on the subject, and he had this day gone through the Bill with one of those gentlemen, who had told him, speaking not only for himself, but his colleagues—when he said, that the Bill had their entire concurrence, as calculated to relieve them from a great portion of their labours, and to make the operation of the Act much less expensive. The object of this, was to effect a commutation of tithes into a rent-charge, as speedily as possible. It was quite true, that in most cases this had been done on the voluntary principle, but still there were many cases in which the old custom of taking tithes in kind still remained; and unless some measure were taken to remedy this inconvenience, the power conferred by this custom might be exercised most vexatiously. It was quite true, that the clause had been introduced by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and he
161Mr. Fox Maule
 doubted if this bill would effect what the hon. Gentleman expected. It appeared to him that the clauses in question would affect merely a small number of cases. By the proposed arrangement, when a parish made an agreement substituting a rent charge for tithes, any landholder might render himself security for the payment of the charge on the whole parish. If the landlord were the proprietor of the whole parish, it might be worth his while to do so, but if he were not, it was improbable that he would take the chance of recovering the amount from the other landholders. The delay now existing in carrying forward the operation of the act, arose between the agreement and the apportionment, and the apportionment was delayed from petty squabbles among the landholder as to little expenses, and the only way in which these squabbles could be terminated, was by the pressure upon the parties of the inconveniences of the present system. He much feared little good would result from giving facilities for further delay. There were other clauses of great importance, which he had not had time fully to consider—one giving power to the Commissioners to fix boundaries. On the whole, if the amendment were pressed, he feared he must vote for it; but he would rather not vote against the bill till some future stage.Mr. Goulburn
162 deprecated proceeding with the second reading of the bill, considering that it had only been printed six days. He was of opinion that time ought to be allowed for considering the bill, but
162Sir R. Inglis
 objected to the powers that had been added to the bill by the Tithe Commissioners. What he would therefore propose was, that the bill should be referred to a committee upstairs, where the whole subject could be considered with more deliberation than in that House. If that were agreed to, probably the hon Member for Exeter would withdraw his motion.Sir Edward Sugden
 was quite ready to accede to the proposition of a Select Committee. He hoped the hon. Member for Exeter would allow the bill to be read a second time, in order that it might be sent to a Committee up-stairs.Sir E. Knatchbull
 would persevere in his amendment.Mr. Divett
 opposed the second reading of the bill. It would do away with certificates of character, which were now required once a-year; and no one he thought should wish to do away with that necessity. He moved that the bill be read a second time that day six months.Mr. Pringle
 said, that the bill did not interfere unjustly with the power of magistrates, but went merely to alleviate some of the inconveniences arising to persons in the spirit trade in Scotland. The principle of the bill was, that a man whose character was unimpeached, and against whom no complaint had been made to the magistrates, should not be compelled to travel a considerable distance to a county town to have his certificate renewed from the Excise Office. There was no desire on the part of those who introduced the bill, to lessen the power of the magistrates in withholding licences from persons whose characters were not unobjectionable. The object was merely to relieve the honest and upright dealer from unnecessary and irksome trouble.Mr. R. Steuart
s164 objected to the bill, because it interfered with the assimilation of the law of Scotland with the law in England upon the same subject. The law in both countries with respect to the renewal of licences by spirit-dealers was the same, and the bill in question interfered to
s164Sir George Clerk
 said, that the advocates in the House for magisterial control, would admit, that that control ought to be exercised with the least inconvenience to the individuals over whom that control was to be exercised. The Government had had memorials, and numerous complaints had been made by persons who had experienced the inconvenience arising from the present system of licensing in Scotland. The object of the bill, in its present form, was, not to deprive the magistrates of any power they then possessed; and for that reason, and for the well-grounded reasons assigned by those who had made complaints to the Government, he would vote for the second reading of the bill. His object was, that persons of fair character engaged in the spirit trade should not, by any technical objection, be deprived of their licence, or be subject to the inconvenience of having their stock-in-trade lying on their hands, by reason of not applying upon a particular day to the bench for a certificate.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 would oppose the bill, as he believed, that it would afford satisfaction neither to the magistrates, nor to the individuals for whose benefit it was said to be introduced.Mr. Herries
 wished to call the attention of the House to the fact, that a petition which had been presented was lithographed. Now it was against the orders of the House, that any printed petitions should be presented, and he wished to draw the attention of the House to this circumstance, as he understood, that of late, several lithographed petitions had been presented.The Speaker
159 thought it would be better, that it should be henceforth distinctly understood, that the House would con-
159The Speaker
ll contended that it was not merely an objection in form, but in substance. Here the House gave authority to the Treasury to issue 25,000,000llMr. Goulburn
l168l: They were wanted, then, to make up any deficiency in the revenue that might have occurred. On this ground, then, were they to issue 4,000,000l168lMr. Goulburn
 entertained great objections to the proceeding, and must repeat his dissent from the Chancellor of the Exchequer.Mr. Goulburn
 said, the committee on petitions would be glad to receive some authority from the House, as to the manner in which they were to deal with these petitions. They were frequently referred to the committee, and they could not make any objections to them there, unless the House would be pleased to give some directions on the subject. He would suggest, that the House should direct the committee not to report on lithographed petitions.Mr. Freshfield
lll desired it to be clearly-understood, that the whole amount of 25,000,000lllMr. Herries
ll167 observed, that if the right
ll167Mr. Herries
lllllll166lll would avail himself of that opportunity of making some observations suggested by the account of ways and means remaining of 1839, to be transferred by this bill to the service of 1840, in connexion with an assertion made some nights ago by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the unfunded debt was reduced to 20,000,000lllllll166lllMr. Herries
llll stated, that the first question of the right hon. Gentleman was, whether it was proposed to issue the one million of Exchequer bills which was granted last year? His answer to this question was in the affirmative. Again, with respect to the second question, which referred to the four millions in addition which had been spoken of by the right hon. Gentleman, he could only reply that it never was in the contemplation of the Government to issue, under the act of last year, any amount of Exchequer bills beyond the one million to which he had just alluded, and which they were authorised by Parliament to issue. The right hon. Gentleman had, therefore, conjectured right when he assumed that the Government did not intend to do so. With respect to the statement of the amount of Exchequer bills, he had given it accurately on the former occasion—namely, that on the 5th of January, 1839, it was 29,957,000llllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the appearance on the face of the amount might be such as the right hon. Gentleman bad described, but it would be set perfectly right in the general accounts, and no inconvenience could result from it. There were some overdue Exchequer bills not paid, and there were some sums required under the appropriation act. For his own part, he did not see any very serious objection to this alleged discrepancy.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated the grounds on a former night, on which the House was called upon to make the vote which it did; and it might have the appearance of overlapping to a certain extent. He was not aware of any serious inconvenience that might occur from it. He would only add that, under the circumstances, it was impossible to take any other course.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that no doubt the amount of Exchequer bills voted in committee of ways and means was greater than was ever supposed was required, but the reduction might not have been such as had really occurred.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
: It was believed that more would have been required.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to ask the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade whether the Commercial treaty between France and this country had already been concluded and if so, in what time it would be in the power of the Government to lay the conditions of it before the House.Mr. Parker
181180 rose, pursuant to notice, to bring forward his motion for the production of the report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the Navy, Array, and Marines. It would not be necessary for him to occupy the attention of the House for any great length of lime, because he expected that some member of the naval and military commission would rise in his place and give the House some satisfactory reason for the delay in the production of their Report. It was now two years since the commission was appointed, and it was surely time the House should be put in possession of the cause of the delay in laying the report on the Table. There were at present many vacancies in the corps of marines which could not be filled tip until the report was made. As the
181180Lord G. Lennox
There was no such intention.Lord John Russell.—
183182 requested the noble Lord not to persevere in his motion. For himself he could safely say, that, from the first moment he had been nominated to the commission, and he could say the same for all his colleagues, there never was a duty imposed upon a body of men more anxiously performed than that duty had been performed by himself and these colleagues. All the members of the commission had attended most sedulously to these duties with the exception of two individuals, whose official employment in the Government prevented their attendance, and with the exception also of two gallant officers, the companions in arms of the immortal Nelson. These were the only exceptions. The noble Duke who sat upon that commission from the very first day of his appointment was always present in his place—and was ever ready to give the commissioners the advantage of his great talents and experience. The appendage moved for by the noble Lord, viz., the return of the names of the commissioners who sat day by day upon the commission he deemed unnecessary, and be hoped that the noble Lord would not press it. The course of proceeding pur-
183182Sir H. Vivian
184 consented to withdraw the motion, being unwilling to divide the
184Lord G. Lennox
 said, there could be little doubt that this was a matter of privilege; but he doubted whether the motion could be made in its present form. He doubted whether the House had the power of ordering those officers not to do a certain thing, though it had the power of declaring that the doing of it was a breach of privilege. He agreed with the worthy Alderman in thinking it desirable to stop the progress of the action before the sheriffs were again involved. He begged to remind the House that Mr. Howard, being in prison, must be carrying on the present action by his agents or clerks; and if they prosecuted him for so doing, they ought equally to prevent his managing clerk, Mr. Pearce, or any other agent of his, from acting in his name. He, however, thought it better to wait till to-morrow, and they then could act upon the further information which they might receive.Mr. O'Connell
 wished to know what objection there could be to allowing the sheriff to go at large if he gave his word of honour that he would be forthcoming at any moment, because he would still be their prisoner.Captain Boldero
233 said—Sir, it does not seem to me to be necessary to pass any motion on this subject. Where five Members object seriously to any business
233Lord John Russell
 said, that as he understood the case, there was one sheriff of Middlesex, but two sheriffs of London, and the House committed the two latter persons, they forming or constituting the former officer. The House had since agreed that one of those persons should be released on the statement that his further confinement would endanger his life. He did not conceive that, under those circumstances, the resolution of the House was at all altered, and he still thought that these persons were bound by it.Lord John Russell
 said, that Government could not enter into any explanation on a subject of the kind without some notice.Lord John Russell
 said, the motion had already been made and seconded.The Speaker
l wished to ask a question of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, upon the subject of the discharge of Mr. Sheriff Evans. On the 21st January this House came to a resolution that the sheriff be ordered to refund the amount of 640lSir E. B. Sugden
 said, that, according to his view of the case, no officer, attorney, counsel, or judge, could be guilty of a breach of the privileges of that House by merely discharging their duties in commencing, furthering, advocating, or deciding an action; but as the majority had decided that it was a breach of privilege to do any act in promotion of such an action as this, the motion of the hon. Alderman was entitled to more attention than it had received, because it was a direct appeal to the House to say whether they would not to-morrow morning give warning to those officers, whom to-morrow evening they might declare guilty of contempt, and consign to imprisonment, not to do that act which might subject them to such serious consequences. He now called upon the House to give those officers that intimation and warning, that they might not unwarned incur that punishment which had fallen so heavily, and he would venture to say so unjustly, on other officers who had done no more than their duty; at least he trusted that the majority of that House, if they would not accede to the motion of the hon. Alderman, and if at a future time they should be called upon to visit those other officers with punishment, would remember that they had refused to give them warning of the danger which they incurred, and would act with a greater degree of lenity, and with more justice and Jess oppression, than had been shown towards the sheriffs.—Motion negatived.Mr. Kelly
 said, that the hon. Member had himself furnished the best proof why his petition ought not to be printed, for he did not deny that his object was to evade the order of the House by having it printed, to come by a round about way to a discussion on a petition. The intention of the House, in permitting a petition to be printed, was, that a motion might be founded on it, not that a discussion should be raised. He denied that it was the object of Gentlemen on the opposition side of the House to prevent the petitions of the people from being heard. They wished that the petitions should be heard, but they were anxious also to comply with the rules and orders of the House.Mr. Shaw
 requested an answer to the question which he had yesterday put to the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, with respect to the reception of British vessels in the ports of China. When he put that question, he was not aware of the intelligence which had arrived. He desired to know, also, whether that were true or not?Mr. G. Palmer
 did not intend to take the sense of the House upon the present occasion, but he must say that if such petitions as that presented by the hon. Member were printed, it would become necessary to print almost every petition.Sir G. Sinclair
 thought that the petition ought to be referred to the Post-office or to the Committee, and he should therefore oppose the motion for printing it.Sir George Sinclair
218"It must be clear to every hon. Gentleman who hears me, that every reduction heretofore made renders it more and more difficult to carry the principle of reduction further. On this account, acknowledging, as I have always done, with readiness and pleasure, the great reductions made by the Administration of the Duke of Wellington, the difficulty of effecting further reductions being increased, the merit (if I may venture to say so, and I do not know why I should not speak the truth) of those who carry reductions further is increased in proportion."lllll217lll216"That there be laid before the House an estimate of the probable future increase of the consolidated fund, after allowing for the probable loss by reason of taxes reduced, and of the future annual charge for the same."215l214llllll213bonâ fide"There is no experiment I should make with more pleasure, than the experiment of reducing taxation for the purpose of increasing consumption. But I dare not make such an experiment at the hazard of shaking the credit of the country. When we have a bonâ fide"Let the House not assume that it will be competent for me to propose any remission of taxation. Would to God it were so. I can assure hon. Gentlemen that there is no portion of the duties of a Chancellor of the Exchequer that can be so agreeable to his feelings as proposing the repeal of an unpopular tax; and, if Ministers find themselves bound to resist the applications that are made from time to time, then Gentlemen must do us the justice to believe, that we are led to do so most reluctantly, and that it can only be from a sense of duty, that we make a stern and determined stand against the remission or reduction of taxation; and that it is only done when such reduction or remission is likely to be attended with danger to the permanent interests of the country."212 said his right hon. Friend, who opened the subject had so fully and completely stated the grounds on which the question rested, and the right hon. Gentleman opposite had offered so little opposition to it, that he (Mr. Goulburn) felt great difficulty in doing more than replying to a few minor topics which the right hon. Gentleman seemed to consider a sufficient answer to the motion before the House. The right hon. Gentleman indeed concluded his speech by professions, by adhering to which he would receive the praise of every Member of Parliament. He told them in high sounding language of the obligations imposed on them to keep up an equality of revenue and expenditure—to furnish what might be necessary to maintain the establishments of the country—to uphold its public credit and keep the national honour respected both at home and abroad. In that he cordially concurred. That was the principle he had for years endeavoured to impress on the Government. He rejoiced to find, that at the opening of the right hon. Gentleman's financial career he had avowed himself prepared to act on principles which every honest man in the country must approve. But the right hon. Gentleman further told them, that if the House did not concur in those opinions it would be lost to every sense of proper duty. He must take leave, however, to say it was not on the House alone that the maintenance of these principles depended. If the Government, having as they ought and must have, the lead in the two Houses of Parliament, manfully adhered to those principles, he entertained no fear with respect to the House of Commons. But, if commencing a financial career with high-sounding principles, the justice of which no man could deny, they should afterwards be found departing from those principles until the revenue could not maintain the establishments of the country, the House would be placed in the double difficulty of having not only to act on their sense of duty, but to fight against the resistance and misconduct of the Government. If he did not yield absolute credit to the assertions of the right hon. Gentleman upon the present occasion, he thought he had
218"It must be clear to every hon. Gentleman who hears me, that every reduction heretofore made renders it more and more difficult to carry the principle of reduction further. On this account, acknowledging, as I have always done, with readiness and pleasure, the great reductions made by the Administration of the Duke of Wellington, the difficulty of effecting further reductions being increased, the merit (if I may venture to say so, and I do not know why I should not speak the truth) of those who carry reductions further is increased in proportion."lllll217lll216"That there be laid before the House an estimate of the probable future increase of the consolidated fund, after allowing for the probable loss by reason of taxes reduced, and of the future annual charge for the same."215l214llllll213bonâ fide"There is no experiment I should make with more pleasure, than the experiment of reducing taxation for the purpose of increasing consumption. But I dare not make such an experiment at the hazard of shaking the credit of the country. When we have a bonâ fide"Let the House not assume that it will be competent for me to propose any remission of taxation. Would to God it were so. I can assure hon. Gentlemen that there is no portion of the duties of a Chancellor of the Exchequer that can be so agreeable to his feelings as proposing the repeal of an unpopular tax; and, if Ministers find themselves bound to resist the applications that are made from time to time, then Gentlemen must do us the justice to believe, that we are led to do so most reluctantly, and that it can only be from a sense of duty, that we make a stern and determined stand against the remission or reduction of taxation; and that it is only done when such reduction or remission is likely to be attended with danger to the permanent interests of the country."212Mr. Goulburn
 concurred with the gallant Officer who had last spoken, that there had not been any intention on his part or on that of his noble Friend, to cast the slightest censure upon the commissioners. As a Member of that commission, he (Sir H. Hardinge) assured the House that he had not neglected his duty. A portion of the commission consisted of Cabinet Ministers, who could not give the subject all the attention which it demanded, being compelled to attend Cabinet meetings. How then could the commissioners proceed? Hon. Gentlemen opposite could not attend, and there was a difficulty in constant attendance of the Members composing that commission. In the observations made by the Master-General of the Ordnance, an allusion had been made to the Duke of Wellington. He knew that a portion of the report had been forwarded to Walmer Castle, to the noble Duke by post; and on the following day that report was returned, having received the revision of the noble Duke. That was a proof that there was no want of expedition. Another portion of the report had been forwarded to the noble Duke by post to Strathfieldsaye, and it was returned in a similar way. He (Sir H. Hardinge) said, that every Member of the commission had done his duty, and among them he enumerated those who were Cabinet Ministers. It had been stated, that there had been no intention on the part of the Government to grant a brevet on the late auspicious occasion. He hoped that, as her Majesty's birthday was not far distant, a brevet would then be issued.Sir H. Hardinge
224223 would not enter into the side field of discussion opened by hon. Gentlemen opposite, but would confine himself to the simple point before the House. The point the House had to
224223Mr. Labouchere
 did not wish to go into any explanation on the subject, as the treaty had not yet been concluded. He should only say, that the Government had been engaged in negotiations with the French Government, with the desire to promote upon fair and honourable terms, the commercial intercourse between both countries. When the treaty should be concluded, there would be no delay in laying it before the House.Mr. Labouchere
179 said, that the effect of the question was, that clearances would be granted at the custom-house for ships bound for China. His answer was, that no directions had been given to the Customhouse authorities to refuse such clearances. But that answer was not given without stating that in granting those clearances the Government assumed no responsibility as to the regulations which might be made by the Chinese Government, or the changes which might take place in our political relations with that country. As to the report to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded, it was mat-
179Mr. Labouchere
 thought that if the information of the hon. Member were correct it was perfectly unnecessary to interfere at the present stage of the proceedings, because, if it was true, that in the former action the sheriffs would have obeyed the order of the Speaker had it been directly and officially communicated, they would also obey his order in the new action and they certainly did not know whether the officers of the Court of Queen's Bench would act in conformity with the resolution of that House, upon its being communicated to them. If, therefore, the statement was correct, it appeared to him that they had better allow the matter to proceed until the sheriffs had some duty to perform; then the Speaker need only address the resolutions of the House direct to the sheriffs, those orders would be obeyed, and then the privileges of the House would be satisfied.Mr. Warburton
201200lllllll199ll198197l"He certainly felt the force of the objection, and his answer to this was, that in the first place, the very general feeling and general concurrence of all parties in favour of the plan, and there was such a general demand from all classes of the community for a measure of this nature, that it was a very difficult matter to withstand it."196"For the last year, and, indeed, for the last two years, the income of the country had not been equal to its expenditure; and this had not arisen from any falling off in the revenue,
196l195llllllll194lllllll193192191190"He feared the necessities of the country were such as would require increased burdens: that the finances were so much impaired, that the public service could not be carried on without augmented means."189"The noble Lord had called public attention to what he rightly held to be a subject of the most pre-eminent importance. He should always concur in that opinion. He could not but express his entire concurrence in all that had been stated by his noble Friend, and in almost all the facts that he had stated. He entirely agreed with him in the approbation which he had expressed of the sinking fund—and that was very material indeed—as it was in the administration of the noble Duke, and he entirely agreed with him in the extremely disagreeable state of the financial affairs. That was fair, and frank, and true. He admitted to his noble Friend, that a deficiency continuing year after year, growing and increasing, was a state of things which could not be permitted to go on, and it was a financial state of the country which it was necessary to look boldly in the face, and to take such measures as were necessary for avoiding of the evil and doing
189188187186185"Account of the income of the consolidated fund, including therewith the duties on sugar, and of the charges thereupon, in the year 1839; distinguished under the principal heads of receipt and expenditure; and also an estimate of the same for the year 1840; showing in each case the surplus applicable to the supplies voted by Parliament. Account showing the amount of the deficiency bills charged on the growing produce of the consolidated fund outstanding, unsatisfied on the 14th day of February, 1839, and the 14th day of February, 1840, respectively. Account showing the surplus or deficiency of the net income of the United Kingdom, compared with the expenditure thereof (exclusive of the charge for a fixed sinking fund, while such was imposed by law), in each of the five years preceding the 5th day of January, 1831, and also in each of the five years preceding the 5th day of January, 1840. Account showing the total amount of the funded or unfunded debt created, and also of the funded or unfunded debt extinguished, in each of the three years preceding the 5th day of January, 1840, distinguishing the stock created in lieu of Exchequer-bills cancelled, being the produce of monies invested by savings-banks. Account of the total amount of the unfunded debt outstanding on the 5th day of January, the 5th day of April, the 5th day of July, and the 10th day of October, in each of the years 1837, 1838, and 1839, stating the rate of interest on Exchequer-bills issued at or about the same periods, the current rates of premium or discount on the same in the public
185 rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given to move for—
201200lllllll199ll198197l"He certainly felt the force of the objection, and his answer to this was, that in the first place, the very general feeling and general concurrence of all parties in favour of the plan, and there was such a general demand from all classes of the community for a measure of this nature, that it was a very difficult matter to withstand it."196"For the last year, and, indeed, for the last two years, the income of the country had not been equal to its expenditure; and this had not arisen from any falling off in the revenue,
196l195llllllll194lllllll193192191190"He feared the necessities of the country were such as would require increased burdens: that the finances were so much impaired, that the public service could not be carried on without augmented means."189"The noble Lord had called public attention to what he rightly held to be a subject of the most pre-eminent importance. He should always concur in that opinion. He could not but express his entire concurrence in all that had been stated by his noble Friend, and in almost all the facts that he had stated. He entirely agreed with him in the approbation which he had expressed of the sinking fund—and that was very material indeed—as it was in the administration of the noble Duke, and he entirely agreed with him in the extremely disagreeable state of the financial affairs. That was fair, and frank, and true. He admitted to his noble Friend, that a deficiency continuing year after year, growing and increasing, was a state of things which could not be permitted to go on, and it was a financial state of the country which it was necessary to look boldly in the face, and to take such measures as were necessary for avoiding of the evil and doing
189188187186185"Account of the income of the consolidated fund, including therewith the duties on sugar, and of the charges thereupon, in the year 1839; distinguished under the principal heads of receipt and expenditure; and also an estimate of the same for the year 1840; showing in each case the surplus applicable to the supplies voted by Parliament. Account showing the amount of the deficiency bills charged on the growing produce of the consolidated fund outstanding, unsatisfied on the 14th day of February, 1839, and the 14th day of February, 1840, respectively. Account showing the surplus or deficiency of the net income of the United Kingdom, compared with the expenditure thereof (exclusive of the charge for a fixed sinking fund, while such was imposed by law), in each of the five years preceding the 5th day of January, 1831, and also in each of the five years preceding the 5th day of January, 1840. Account showing the total amount of the funded or unfunded debt created, and also of the funded or unfunded debt extinguished, in each of the three years preceding the 5th day of January, 1840, distinguishing the stock created in lieu of Exchequer-bills cancelled, being the produce of monies invested by savings-banks. Account of the total amount of the unfunded debt outstanding on the 5th day of January, the 5th day of April, the 5th day of July, and the 10th day of October, in each of the years 1837, 1838, and 1839, stating the rate of interest on Exchequer-bills issued at or about the same periods, the current rates of premium or discount on the same in the public
185Mr. Herries
 replied. The information he moved for was admitted on all hands to be of the greatest importance to the country, and it was now for the House to decide whether or not it should be required. With respect to what had been urged against his motion, he appealed to the House, and he challenged any hon. Member who heard the debate, to say whether any reasonable objection had been raised to it, whether any allegation of impossibility had been put f:—orth, whether any statement had been made on the part of the Government which should induce him to abstain from pressing the question to a division.Mr. Herries
239 had certainly understood the hon. Member for Kilkenny to say that the sheriffs had been served in a way in which they had no right to obey the order of the House; but that if the
239Mr. John Jones
, in reply, said, that during the present session the House had often sat very late, but nothing had as yet been done which would infringe on his motion. As to the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet that Members could move the adjournment, he would only say, that a great deal of time was often lost by debates on questions of adjournment, and one object of his motion was to remedy that inconvenience.Mr. Brotherton
 rose to move, pursuant to his notice, that no new business which shall be objected to by any five Members be brought on after twelve o'clock at night. The hon. Member said, that every session complaints were made by Members that Bills were gone through over night which they wished to take part in, but found that they were too late when they looked into the "Votes" next morning. He thought the rule he proposed would much facilitate public business. If it were understood that the business was to be gone through before midnight, he thought the House would contrive to find time to do it in. He believed the British Parliament was the only public assembly in the world that did its business by night. It was most important that the public should know what they were doing, but during the debates on the question of privilege it was found that a great portion of their proceedings were gone through too late to be published, and the House might as well have been doing nothing all that time.Mr. Brotherton
222llll221llllllll220lll complained that those who, on both sides, had taken part in the present debate, had wandered away from the real object of the motion. In his opinion the country ought to be obliged to any man, who brought before it the state of its revenues, or who endeavoured to keep down the expenditure, so that it should not be beyond the means of the country to meet it. Hitherto they had been afraid to look the difficulties of the country in the face; but they ought at least to be prepared to encounter them. They had to recollect that there was a deficiency of six millions in three years, and that, to add to their embarrassments, they were bound to consider what had occurred in China. A large portion of the Irish nation had left off drinking whiskey, so that there was on that to be expected a deficiency of half a million in the year. He had seen an account of ten thousand persons in the town of Kilkenny having ceased from drinking whiskey, and he understood that ten thousand more in the county had pledged themselves to Father Mathew not to taste whiskey. If the pledge was kept, as he believed it would be in Ireland, then there would certainly be a deficiency to the amount he had stated. As to the Post-office, he had never concealed from himself or others, that there must be a deficiency under that head. But then, if there was any one measure of the Government which entitled them to his honest and sincere support, it was their carrying that measure; and he did not think that hon. Gentlemen opposite forwarded their own cause much by upbraiding the Government for carrying that measure. When they saw what had happened connected with the China trade—what must occur from the cessation of the use of spirits, and what had been done with regard to the Post-office, they knew that there could not be an increase, but a deficiency in their resources, and therefore they ought fairly to look at all the difficulties which they had to encounter. He was not one who felt any distrust in the resources of the country. He found the revenue was better than it had been. In 1833, it was 46,000,000222llll221llllllll220lllMr. Hume
 said, that it appeared to him very essential to the commerce of the country that merchants should be informed what had been the nature of the instructions sent out by the Government.Mr. Hume
 said, he had stated no such thing; he referred only to what he understood would have been done in the former action.Mr. Hume
238 said, they had heard that a
238Mr. Hume
vv237llla laughv said that, from the information which he had received, he understood that to-morrow morning, at eleven o'clock, the writ of inquiry which had been sued out in the fresh action of Stockdale vv237llla laughvSir M. Wood
 was glad that an opposition had been raised to his motion, because he had now a right to make some observations. Members were debarred from speaking on the presentation of petitions; they could only mention very briefly the contents; and he was sure that the people out of doors were very much dissatisfied with the arrangement, and regretted the prevention of speaking upon petitions. He should not, therefore, be sorry if, on a division, his motion should be lost, because it would show the people how anxious the Gentlemen who sat on the opposite side of the House were to prevent the petitions of the people from being heard. He should certainly take a division on his motion.Mr. Wallace
177 said, that he had on many occasions presented petitions complaining of the conduct of the Post-office, but he had never presented such a
177Mr. Wallace
211210l209llllllll208lllllllllll207llllll206205Hear, hear, from the Opposition204203202ex officio was well aware, that every person in office was 211210l209llllllll208lllllllllll207llllll206205Hear, hear, from the Opposition204203202ex officioThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
229lllll228llllllll227**"He would have moneys."Shylock*226"In time of war a proceeding of this kind is obviously impracticable, because the various changes and exigencies to which a state of hostility necessarily gives rise, render it impossible that her Majesty's Government should be able, at so early a period, to present to the House of Commons any precise estimate of the supplies, which circumstances may make
*226"In conformity with the course I adopted in the last Session of Parliament, I take the earliest opportunity of opening to the House, the view which his Majesty's Government take of the present situation, and future prospects of our finances."225 almost felt it necessary to apologise to the House for venturing to address them after the able speeches of his right hon. Friend who brought the
229lllll228llllllll227**"He would have moneys."Shylock*226"In time of war a proceeding of this kind is obviously impracticable, because the various changes and exigencies to which a state of hostility necessarily gives rise, render it impossible that her Majesty's Government should be able, at so early a period, to present to the House of Commons any precise estimate of the supplies, which circumstances may make
*226"In conformity with the course I adopted in the last Session of Parliament, I take the earliest opportunity of opening to the House, the view which his Majesty's Government take of the present situation, and future prospects of our finances."225Sir G. Clerk
 begged the House and the right hon. Gentleman to understand that neither himself nor the noble Lord who introduced the motion intended to offer the slightest reflection upon the Members composing that commission. There was no doubt but that they acted with the greatest anxiety and industry.Captain Pechell
Gazette seconded the motion, and bore testimony to the anxiety of the officers in his own profession as well as in that of the army. It was necessary for the country as well as for the officers themselves to know why that report had not before been laid upon the Table of the House, and it was stated in his hearing, that the reason why a brevet had not appeared in the GazetteCaptain Pechell
 said, the motion was of much importance, and he wished notice had been given of it—but he felt it his duty to say that in the present state of affairs it was not, in his opinion, expedient to agree to the motion—and that at all events more deliberation was necessary. He and his hon. Colleague had deliberated on the matter, and they were not then prepared to recommend that course to the House. He would not discuss the contrast between the sheriffs and the officers of the court; but it would be easy to point out many distinctions between the two, which would justify a different line of conduct towards each. For the present, however, he would content himself with moving the previous question.The Attorney-General
 questioned how far this was a matter of privilege, so as to be entitled to precedence of motions on the paper; but independently of that, he objected to the motion, as containing an assumption of power on the part of that House, for which there was no precedent. Upon the first point he appealed to the Speaker.Sir R. Inglis
234 said, I think it unnecessary to enter into the discussion of any general question whether a great change ought to be made in the conduct of public business in this House. Some may think it better that the House should meet at ten o'clock in the morning, but I do not consider it necessary to enter upon that question, further than to suggest the extreme difficulty of so total a change. But I object to this motion on other grounds. It appears to give a sort of Parliamentary sanction to commencing new business at half-past eleven; for observe, the power of five Members to object does not commence until the clock has struck twelve; and what a strange position of things it would be, that five Members should be waiting till the clock struck before they could object to the House proceeding with any new business, and that after that they should be invested with a power of objecting to any. There is much business which I should object to commencing at half-past eleven. I might object to bringing on a motion of great importance at eleven; all depends upon circumstances. If there was likely to be an adjourned debate, and the mover would have the opportunity of making a criminatory speech, without the possibility of an answer being given to it, I might object to proceed after half-past ten; there-
234Sir R. Peel
252251 said, that the Bill having been already so much discussed, he would not occupy the attention of the House by entering into its details, but he would declare his conviction that if that Bill ever passed into a law it would be a heavy blow and a great discouragement to the Protestant religion in Ireland; and for that reason he could not permit such a bill to be passed through that House, without giving it his decided opposition. There were many authorities of high name and high characters to sanction that opposition
252251Sir R. Inglis
254bonâ fide253 begged leave to second the amendment. He had never denied, that, by what he called reform, the advantages attendant upon the existence of municipal corporations in Ireland might be greatly increased; but when it was intended by this bill to transfer the exclusive patronage and ascendancy of the corporations into different hands, he said that this was an unfair bill, and that it was an effort on the part of the Government to make the bill a political engine by which they might increase their influence in that country. That was the main ground upon which he opposed this bill. But he had another objection to it—namely, that from the nature of this bill, and the character of many of its clauses, it would throw the patronage into the hands of a class of men who were not by any other statutes or institutions of the country intrusted with it, and who, by reason of their education, and their situation in society, were not likely, properly and justly, to administer the pecuniary concerns of these corporations. It was generally believed that a compact, either implied or understood, had existed between the Government and the Conservative party, the
254bonâ fide253Mr. Litton
256lbonâ fide255 said, he would state at once, that, without pledging himself to any of the details of this measure, he intended to vote for the second reading. He felt bound, both by consistency and good faith, to lake that course, because he saw the good effects of the Irish Tithe Bill, in the increased security of the Irish Church, and the improved condition of society in Ireland. When the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford reasoned, that his party was altogether free from every compact with regard to the Irish Church, because he saw that the hostility of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin to that Church was not diminished, his answer to that reasoning was, that the hon. and learned Member was no party to the compact, and that one great advantage had been gained for the Church—namely, an Act of Parliament, by which the Church could be protected against the hostility of that hon. and learned Member. The Poor-law was, he believed, notwithstanding some drawbacks and difficulties, coming into useful operation; at all events, it supplied a safe criterion of franchise. But if he was even free from these obligations, he would call upon those hon. Friends of his who opposed the principle of the present measure, to state what was their own, and to propose some substitute of which he could approve, before he could lend them his support. He had not heard any one of his hon. Friends contend that the Irish Corporations could be retained in their present form; for his own part, considering the altered laws and circumstances of Ireland, he thought that object was not possible or desirable, and, from first to last, in all the discussions of the subject, he had never either there or elsewhere, given a different opinion. He had advocated the abolition of those corporations, and still would do so, were it practicable, maintaining, as he did, his former opinion, that their abolition would be the measure most conducive to the good government of the towns, and to the general peace and prosperity of the country, by preventing the recurrence of elections, and the irritation of party contentions for ascendancy; and that the public funds would be applied for the real benefit of
256lbonâ fide255Mr. Shaw
263262"That they could not, without serious alarm, regard many of the clauses of the bill, and they most earnestly entreated the House not to force a corporation on them which would only have the effect of engendering bitter animosities; whereas the local affairs of that place had hitherto been managed in a most satisfactory manner under the provision of the 9th of Geo. 4th, and that the effect of the change would only be to exasperate political differences and excite private dissensions. That the affairs of the town of Belfast had hitherto been conducted in a most satisfactory and peaceful manner, but this would no longer be the case if this bill passed with its compulsory clauses."l261l"Should the plan which was last year proposed to Parliament have passed into a law, your petitioners would have found themselves burdened with a very heavy annual expense for the payment of municipal officers, who have hitherto been found quite unnecessary for the management of the corporate affairs of the town: they would have found that the public income of the town, amounting to about 600l260"There is one suggestion which I will venture to offer to your Lordships, for which suggestion I alone am responsible, not having communicated to my noble Friend my intention of making it, and not having any reason, except the conviction of its expediency, to believe that it will be acceptable to either side of your Lordships' House. In the bill, as it last left your Lordships' House, and as it now stands, there is a clause regulating the voting for auditors and assessors. Now, in another hill ordered to be brought into the Mouse of Commons by Lord John Russell, the Attorney-general and Mr. Vernon Smith, a bill for regulating charitable trusts, there is a clause providing that every person entitled to vote shall vote for only half the number of trustees. I wish your Lordships would consider if it might not be practicable to add clauses to this bill of a similar character, but bearing on the election of town councillors, which would in a great degree remove the objections to the measure, which some of your Lordships entertain. Suppose, for instance, that every voter was restricted to voting for only half the number of town-councillors. The consequence would be, that there could be no exclusive party established, but that a minority in any corporation, of whatever persuasion they might be, could retain their due share of influence. My Lords, I believe it is an overstatement to say, that even if the bill were carried in its present shape its effects would be exclusive, because it would be only a transfer of authority from one party to another. Many of the corporations in Ireland are divided into wards, and in many of those wards the Protestants would have the preponderance. I am told, that even in Waterford, where the Catholics are most numerous, the elections would not be of that exclusive character apprehended. But even if that were the case, the proposition which I have ventured to throw out would remedy the evil. It. is obvious, that if a voter were restricted to vote for only half the town-councillors, unless the majority of one opinion could be swelled to two to one, no principle of exclusion could be established."259toto c258" I know that it has been said, that the inevitable effect of this measure would be to take the power out of the hands of one party and give it to another. I am aware that this has repeatedly been said, but whatever credit may be attached to my assertion, I have no hesitation in saying, that if I thought that this measure would take power from one exclusive and violent party, and give it to another equally so—if such a party could be found—it would not have a more determined opponent than myself. But I deny that such would be the effect of the measure."257 felt with his right hon. Friend, the importance of having this long vexatious question settled. But he did not think the House had had sufficent time to consider the present measure. It was only yesterday morning, that he had been put in possession of this very voluminous bill. It was impossible that the people of Ireland could have had any opportunity of considering it. Nevertheless, the House was called upon to decide thus hastily upon it. It was said by a noble Duke, the leader of his party, in the House of Lords, that if the Poor-law Bill and the Irish Tithe Bill were passed in a satisfactory shape, he should feel himself bound to vote for the principle of a bill for the remodelling the Irish Municipal Corporations. These two measures had been passed; and, in conformity with that pledge, the party with whom he acted were prepared to vote for the second reading of this measure. He was, however, bound to say, that he was well aware of the probable effects of it if it were carried in its present shape; and, with the view to obviate them, he should pursue such a course in Committee as duty dictated, and at all risks would follow it. He would, therefore, tell the noble Lord that he would vote for the second reading of this bill, but in doing so, he should take care to support or propose such modifications of it in Committee as would prevent the most mischievous results arising. When the Government first brought forward the Irish Municipal Bill, the Members of it in that House distinctly denied, that it was intended by it to lake the power in the corporations from one exclusive party and transfer it to another, and his right hon. Friend, the present Master of the Rolls in Ireland, who was the law officer of the
263262"That they could not, without serious alarm, regard many of the clauses of the bill, and they most earnestly entreated the House not to force a corporation on them which would only have the effect of engendering bitter animosities; whereas the local affairs of that place had hitherto been managed in a most satisfactory manner under the provision of the 9th of Geo. 4th, and that the effect of the change would only be to exasperate political differences and excite private dissensions. That the affairs of the town of Belfast had hitherto been conducted in a most satisfactory and peaceful manner, but this would no longer be the case if this bill passed with its compulsory clauses."l261l"Should the plan which was last year proposed to Parliament have passed into a law, your petitioners would have found themselves burdened with a very heavy annual expense for the payment of municipal officers, who have hitherto been found quite unnecessary for the management of the corporate affairs of the town: they would have found that the public income of the town, amounting to about 600l260"There is one suggestion which I will venture to offer to your Lordships, for which suggestion I alone am responsible, not having communicated to my noble Friend my intention of making it, and not having any reason, except the conviction of its expediency, to believe that it will be acceptable to either side of your Lordships' House. In the bill, as it last left your Lordships' House, and as it now stands, there is a clause regulating the voting for auditors and assessors. Now, in another hill ordered to be brought into the Mouse of Commons by Lord John Russell, the Attorney-general and Mr. Vernon Smith, a bill for regulating charitable trusts, there is a clause providing that every person entitled to vote shall vote for only half the number of trustees. I wish your Lordships would consider if it might not be practicable to add clauses to this bill of a similar character, but bearing on the election of town councillors, which would in a great degree remove the objections to the measure, which some of your Lordships entertain. Suppose, for instance, that every voter was restricted to voting for only half the number of town-councillors. The consequence would be, that there could be no exclusive party established, but that a minority in any corporation, of whatever persuasion they might be, could retain their due share of influence. My Lords, I believe it is an overstatement to say, that even if the bill were carried in its present shape its effects would be exclusive, because it would be only a transfer of authority from one party to another. Many of the corporations in Ireland are divided into wards, and in many of those wards the Protestants would have the preponderance. I am told, that even in Waterford, where the Catholics are most numerous, the elections would not be of that exclusive character apprehended. But even if that were the case, the proposition which I have ventured to throw out would remedy the evil. It. is obvious, that if a voter were restricted to vote for only half the town-councillors, unless the majority of one opinion could be swelled to two to one, no principle of exclusion could be established."259toto c258" I know that it has been said, that the inevitable effect of this measure would be to take the power out of the hands of one party and give it to another. I am aware that this has repeatedly been said, but whatever credit may be attached to my assertion, I have no hesitation in saying, that if I thought that this measure would take power from one exclusive and violent party, and give it to another equally so—if such a party could be found—it would not have a more determined opponent than myself. But I deny that such would be the effect of the measure."257Mr. Sergeant Jackson
265264 could not conceal from himself, nor did he desire to conceal from the House, the delight he felt in finding himself voting on the same side with the right hon. Gentleman opposite and the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He did take the liberty of making a suggestion across the House to the hon. and learned Sergeant, and if that had been acted upon, the learned Member might have been spared the trouble, and the House the pleasure of one half hour of his speech, which might have been reserved for another occasion. The hon. Member declared his intention of voting for the bill, and he afterwards adduced the towns of Cork, and Clonmel, and Galway, as arguments against the bill. The arguments might have been very good if they had agreed with his vote, but as it was, he was better pleased to get the learned Sergeant's vote than his arguments. He hoped the hon. and learned Sergeant would give the House credit when the bill was in Committee for the instalment of the debate which they had received from him, and allow them to escape so much on a future occasion. He was of opinion that the bill would place those who called themselves Conservatives in a better position than they were in at present. Many of those Gentlemen who, for political purposes, now appealed to the angry feelings and passions of certain parties would no longer feel a necessity for making such appeals, but would consult the voice of the people of the cities and towns; and by pursuing that course they would be better friends with their neighbours than ever they had been before. The hon. and learned Member objected to the bill, that it would take away the power from the Protestants and give it to the Roman Catholics. Now, if the meaning of the bill were to take power from a Protestant because he was a Protestant, and to give that power to a Catho-
265264Mr. O'Connell
272271270269268267266: Sir, I do not intend to enter into any discussion of the details of the bill on the present occasion. I shall reserve that for another stage. With respect to an admission I made on a former year, I must say that I do not now see any cause to induce me to retract that admission. With respect to the newly-inserted provisions, now at the end of three years, I will not enter into that point; but I reserve to myself the complete power of acting hereafter, with respect to the details, as I may think fit. The main question which we have now to decide is, shall this bill be read a second time or shall it not? Shall an attempt be made in the present session to bring this long agitated question to a conclusion? I have a better ground for assenting to this attempt to settle the question, for I hold that we are consulting no interest in Ireland by keeping the question unsettled, if we can settle it in a proper and satisfactory manner. With respect to the first point, concerning the fulfilment of the pledge which I made, for I will not say compact, as I do not consider that I entered into any compact On any occasion with the hon. Gentle-
272271270269268267266Sir Robert Peel
273 said: Were it not for some remarks that fell from the hon. and learned Member for Bandon, and the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Dublin, I should not have thought it necessary to offer any observations to the House on the present occasion. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, has stated, that, with respect to this question, he entered into no compact with this side of the House, but that he made a public declaration of what his intentions were. He has stated with perfect correctness what was the declaration which he made, and I must say, that what the right hon. Baronet has now stated agrees, on the whole, with the declaration which he formerly made. However, the right hon. Baronet is mistaken if he supposes that I am prepared to agree to all the propositions with respect to this bill which were pressed last year. There are some things which were contained in the bill, and added by the House of Lords last year, and some propositions which we have this evening been led to expect will be proposed in the Committee, to which I cannot give my assent. The hon. Member for Bandon proposed a plan, by which he would provide, that half the governing body should be elected by one class of religionists, and the other half by the other, and that only half the members of the governing body should be elected by one class of the inhabitants; but, though I assisted in introducing and preparing a bill with respect to charitable trusts, in which a principle something similar was admitted, I do not think that it would be advisable to introduce that principle into the municipal bill for Ireland. I shall, therefore, object to the introduction of this principle into the bill, for I think that in operation it would be found to be mischievous. There could be no way more certain of perpetuating religious dissension, than that one party, being a minority, and another party a majority, should each elect an equal number of town councillors, and that one set of these town councillors should belong to the Protestant party exclusively, and the other exclusively to the Roman Catholic
273Lord J. Russell
288287826,428720,000
826,428720,000123642being72,000Waste
123642being72,000Waste41946being108,000Bran and Pollard
41946being108,000Bran and Pollard201221being36,000Coarse flour fit for export
201221being36,000Coarse flour fit for export123642being72,000Second flour fit for export
123642being72,000Second flour fit for export1663,857being432,000 Fine flour fit for export
1663,857being432,000 Fine flour fit for exportlbs.qrs.c.lbs.
lbs.qrs.c.lbs.1,500 qrs. at 480 lbs. the qrs. amount to 720,000 lbs. or 6,428 cwt. 2 lbs. 8 oz. will produce—
1,500 qrs. at 480 lbs. the qrs. amount to 720,000 lbs. or 6,428 cwt. 2 lbs. 8 oz. will produce—
826,428720,000
826,428720,000123642being72,000Waste
123642being72,000Waste41946being108,000Bran and Pollard
41946being108,000Bran and Pollard201221being36,000Coarse flour fit for export
201221being36,000Coarse flour fit for export123642being72,000Second flour fit for export
123642being72,000Second flour fit for export1663,857being432,000 Fine flour fit for export
1663,857being432,000 Fine flour fit for exportlbs.qrs.c.lbs.
lbs.qrs.c.lbs.1,500 qrs. at 480 lbs. the qrs. amount to 720,000 lbs. or 6,428 cwt. 2 lbs. 8 oz. will produce—
1,500 qrs. at 480 lbs. the qrs. amount to 720,000 lbs. or 6,428 cwt. 2 lbs. 8 oz. will produce—286"If grain were imported," he said, "the worst and the middlings went to support the poor; but where flour was imported it was the best sort, and was consumed exclusively by the rich. In the first instance, our own poor derived the benefit; in the latter it went to the poor of other countries; and he was convinced the House would not consent to give away that benefit to foreigners."285"The establishment of mills in Ireland had been a great means of promoting the culture of wheat; and the substitution of that grain for the potato, as a general article of food, was considered, on all hands, to be a great step towards raising the moral character of the Irish peasantry. But by any encouragement given to foreign flour, in his opinion, the milling interest of Ireland would be wholly ruined."284l283282l003,379,340001,119,087001,260,2531838
003,379,340001,119,087001,260,2531838001,894,20800910,47500983,7331837
001,894,20800910,47500983,7331837002,045,02000808,522001,236,4981836
002,045,02000808,522001,236,4981836911,690,350203566,0061611,124,3431835
911,690,350203566,0061611,124,34318352431,883,45700772,9912531,110,4631834
2431,883,45700772,9912531,110,46318342411,702,28083642,6921621,059,5871833
2411,702,28083642,6921621,059,58718331021,442,846221611,412160831,4341832
1021,442,846221611,412160831,43418322621,105,61301581,371261524,2421831
2621,105,61301581,371261524,2421831711,072,840240400,34773672,2641830
711,072,840240400,34773672,26418302711,028,395121402,127140626,2681829
2711,028,395121402,127140626,2681829631,046,317123424,748223621,5681838
631,046,317123424,748223621,5681838140566,14060224,51080341,6301857
140566,14060224,51080341,6301857lb.qr.cwt.lbqr.cwt.lb.qr.cwt.
lb.qr.cwt.lbqr.cwt.lb.qr.cwt.TotalOatmeal.Wheat meal or Flour.In the Years
TotalOatmeal.Wheat meal or Flour.In the Years
003,379,340001,119,087001,260,2531838
003,379,340001,119,087001,260,2531838001,894,20800910,47500983,7331837
001,894,20800910,47500983,7331837002,045,02000808,522001,236,4981836
002,045,02000808,522001,236,4981836911,690,350203566,0061611,124,3431835
911,690,350203566,0061611,124,34318352431,883,45700772,9912531,110,4631834
2431,883,45700772,9912531,110,46318342411,702,28083642,6921621,059,5871833
2411,702,28083642,6921621,059,58718331021,442,846221611,412160831,4341832
1021,442,846221611,412160831,43418322621,105,61301581,371261524,2421831
2621,105,61301581,371261524,2421831711,072,840240400,34773672,2641830
711,072,840240400,34773672,26418302711,028,395121402,127140626,2681829
2711,028,395121402,127140626,2681829631,046,317123424,748223621,5681838
631,046,317123424,748223621,5681838140566,14060224,51080341,6301857
140566,14060224,51080341,6301857lb.qr.cwt.lbqr.cwt.lb.qr.cwt.
lb.qr.cwt.lbqr.cwt.lb.qr.cwt.TotalOatmeal.Wheat meal or Flour.In the Years
TotalOatmeal.Wheat meal or Flour.In the Years281280ss279300
30030Waste
30Waste45Bran
45Bran15Third
15Third30Seconds
30Seconds180Of Fine Flour
180Of Fine Flourlbs.
lbs.
300
30030Waste
30Waste45Bran
45Bran15Third
15Third30Seconds
30Seconds180Of Fine Flour
180Of Fine Flourlbs.
lbs.278l277l"And be it enacted, for the further encouragement of corn mills in this country (Ireland), that no corn or grain ground into meal or flour, or made into bread or biscuit, shall at any time be imported into this kingdom, except from Great Britain, and of British growth and manufacture, under penalty of the forfeiture of all such meal, flour, &c, and a sum of 5l276 had stated, on a former stage of the bill, his determination to oppose it, and not, as had been suggested, merely on the narrow ground that it was a measure affecting the interests of the millers only, but on the broader principle, and the more important one, that it would materially interrupt the career of agricultural improvement in Ireland; and so far from benefitting either of those classes for whose advantage it purported to be introduced—the manufacturers and the poor—that it would be a direct and serious injury to both. And when hon. Members spoke of the propriety of assimilating the laws of England and of Ireland in this respect, he would remind them that it was out of the very dissimilar circumstances of the two countries that the present dissimilarity in the law had arisen. This was not an act of a recent date, or a measure of the British Parliament, which they were about to annul and to repeal; it was an Act passed by the Parliament of Ireland long before the Union took place, which had been recognized by the Act of Union, and which had been continued and perpetuated by every Corn Act passed by the Imperial Parliament since. The House was aware that down to a very recent period, Ireland was almost entirely destitute of a home manufacture of flour, but was totally dependent upon England, and that even within the last thirty years her wheat and oats, even for her own consumption, were sent to Bristol, to Liverpool, and to Glasgow, to be ground, and were thence returned to her in the shape of flour and oatmeal. It was to remedy this serious want that the present law was enacted. To show the peculiar circumstances of Ireland which led to this enactment, so far back as 1757, an Act of the Irish Parliament "for supplying Dublin with flour," recites in its preamble, that the inhabitants "had frequently been reduced to great distress," from the difficulty in procuring flour; and in order to encourage a steady supply at home, the Act affixes a bounty to every hundred-
288287826,428720,000
826,428720,000123642being72,000Waste
123642being72,000Waste41946being108,000Bran and Pollard
41946being108,000Bran and Pollard201221being36,000Coarse flour fit for export
201221being36,000Coarse flour fit for export123642being72,000Second flour fit for export
123642being72,000Second flour fit for export1663,857being432,000 Fine flour fit for export
1663,857being432,000 Fine flour fit for exportlbs.qrs.c.lbs.
lbs.qrs.c.lbs.1,500 qrs. at 480 lbs. the qrs. amount to 720,000 lbs. or 6,428 cwt. 2 lbs. 8 oz. will produce—
1,500 qrs. at 480 lbs. the qrs. amount to 720,000 lbs. or 6,428 cwt. 2 lbs. 8 oz. will produce—
826,428720,000
826,428720,000123642being72,000Waste
123642being72,000Waste41946being108,000Bran and Pollard
41946being108,000Bran and Pollard201221being36,000Coarse flour fit for export
201221being36,000Coarse flour fit for export123642being72,000Second flour fit for export
123642being72,000Second flour fit for export1663,857being432,000 Fine flour fit for export
1663,857being432,000 Fine flour fit for exportlbs.qrs.c.lbs.
lbs.qrs.c.lbs.1,500 qrs. at 480 lbs. the qrs. amount to 720,000 lbs. or 6,428 cwt. 2 lbs. 8 oz. will produce—
1,500 qrs. at 480 lbs. the qrs. amount to 720,000 lbs. or 6,428 cwt. 2 lbs. 8 oz. will produce—286"If grain were imported," he said, "the worst and the middlings went to support the poor; but where flour was imported it was the best sort, and was consumed exclusively by the rich. In the first instance, our own poor derived the benefit; in the latter it went to the poor of other countries; and he was convinced the House would not consent to give away that benefit to foreigners."285"The establishment of mills in Ireland had been a great means of promoting the culture of wheat; and the substitution of that grain for the potato, as a general article of food, was considered, on all hands, to be a great step towards raising the moral character of the Irish peasantry. But by any encouragement given to foreign flour, in his opinion, the milling interest of Ireland would be wholly ruined."284l283282l003,379,340001,119,087001,260,2531838
003,379,340001,119,087001,260,2531838001,894,20800910,47500983,7331837
001,894,20800910,47500983,7331837002,045,02000808,522001,236,4981836
002,045,02000808,522001,236,4981836911,690,350203566,0061611,124,3431835
911,690,350203566,0061611,124,34318352431,883,45700772,9912531,110,4631834
2431,883,45700772,9912531,110,46318342411,702,28083642,6921621,059,5871833
2411,702,28083642,6921621,059,58718331021,442,846221611,412160831,4341832
1021,442,846221611,412160831,43418322621,105,61301581,371261524,2421831
2621,105,61301581,371261524,2421831711,072,840240400,34773672,2641830
711,072,840240400,34773672,26418302711,028,395121402,127140626,2681829
2711,028,395121402,127140626,2681829631,046,317123424,748223621,5681838
631,046,317123424,748223621,5681838140566,14060224,51080341,6301857
140566,14060224,51080341,6301857lb.qr.cwt.lbqr.cwt.lb.qr.cwt.
lb.qr.cwt.lbqr.cwt.lb.qr.cwt.TotalOatmeal.Wheat meal or Flour.In the Years
TotalOatmeal.Wheat meal or Flour.In the Years
003,379,340001,119,087001,260,2531838
003,379,340001,119,087001,260,2531838001,894,20800910,47500983,7331837
001,894,20800910,47500983,7331837002,045,02000808,522001,236,4981836
002,045,02000808,522001,236,4981836911,690,350203566,0061611,124,3431835
911,690,350203566,0061611,124,34318352431,883,45700772,9912531,110,4631834
2431,883,45700772,9912531,110,46318342411,702,28083642,6921621,059,5871833
2411,702,28083642,6921621,059,58718331021,442,846221611,412160831,4341832
1021,442,846221611,412160831,43418322621,105,61301581,371261524,2421831
2621,105,61301581,371261524,2421831711,072,840240400,34773672,2641830
711,072,840240400,34773672,26418302711,028,395121402,127140626,2681829
2711,028,395121402,127140626,2681829631,046,317123424,748223621,5681838
631,046,317123424,748223621,5681838140566,14060224,51080341,6301857
140566,14060224,51080341,6301857lb.qr.cwt.lbqr.cwt.lb.qr.cwt.
lb.qr.cwt.lbqr.cwt.lb.qr.cwt.TotalOatmeal.Wheat meal or Flour.In the Years
TotalOatmeal.Wheat meal or Flour.In the Years281280ss279300
30030Waste
30Waste45Bran
45Bran15Third
15Third30Seconds
30Seconds180Of Fine Flour
180Of Fine Flourlbs.
lbs.
300
30030Waste
30Waste45Bran
45Bran15Third
15Third30Seconds
30Seconds180Of Fine Flour
180Of Fine Flourlbs.
lbs.278l277l"And be it enacted, for the further encouragement of corn mills in this country (Ireland), that no corn or grain ground into meal or flour, or made into bread or biscuit, shall at any time be imported into this kingdom, except from Great Britain, and of British growth and manufacture, under penalty of the forfeiture of all such meal, flour, &c, and a sum of 5l276Mr. E. Tennent
289, in seconding the motion, begged to impress on the House, as had been stated by some Gentlemen, that this was merely a miller's question. In Ireland the position of the miller was totally different from that of the same person in England. In Ireland the increase of mills had most materially advanced the interests of agriculture, because it had substituted the cultivation of wheat for that of oats and barley, and had thus greatly diminished the temptation to illicit distillation. The miller would certainly be the first person who would be injured by this law, because he had considerable capital invested in his mill, and also in his stock of British and foreign corn. There was now enough of foreign corn in Ireland to supply the momentary deficiency, and, he trusted that advantage would not be taken of the momentary scarcity which had existed, to effect a permanent injury on the country. If the House passed this act, they would be breaking faith with those parties who had built eighteen hundred mills on the security of the present law. In the next place they would be injuring all the millers who had lately embarked their capital in foreign corn to mix with the damaged corn of the last harvest. On the whole, he could see nothing but injury in
289Colonel Conolly
29237,5591839
37,55918397,9801838
7,98018382,5871837
2,5871837551In l836
551In l836Quarters.
Quarters.
37,5591839
37,55918397,9801838
7,98018382,5871837
2,5871837551In l836
551In l836Quarters.
Quarters.2912,307,2441829
2,307,24418292,240,25018392,826,5901828
2,240,25018392,826,59018283,474,30218381,828,4601827
3,474,30218381,828,46018273,030,29318371,693,3921826
3,030,29318371,693,39218262,958,27218362,203,9621825
2,958,27218362,203,96218252,679,43818351,634,0001824
2,679,43818351,634,00018242,792,65818341,528,1531823
2,792,65818341,528,15318232,737,44118331,063,0891822
2,737,44118331,063,08918222,990,76718321,822,8161821
2,990,76718321,822,81618212,429,18218311,415,7231820
2,429,18218311,415,72318202,215,5211830967,6801819
2,215,5211830967,6801819Quarters.Years.Quarters.Years.
Quarters.Years.Quarters.Years.
2,307,2441829
2,307,24418292,240,25018392,826,5901828
2,240,25018392,826,59018283,474,30218381,828,4601827
3,474,30218381,828,46018273,030,29318371,693,3921826
3,030,29318371,693,39218262,958,27218362,203,9621825
2,958,27218362,203,96218252,679,43818351,634,0001824
2,679,43818351,634,00018242,792,65818341,528,1531823
2,792,65818341,528,15318232,737,44118331,063,0891822
2,737,44118331,063,08918222,990,76718321,822,8161821
2,990,76718321,822,81618212,429,18218311,415,7231820
2,429,18218311,415,72318202,215,5211830967,6801819
2,215,5211830967,6801819Quarters.Years.Quarters.Years.
Quarters.Years.Quarters.Years.290 said, that he gave the gallant Gentleman most entire credit for the sincerity of the alarm and apprehension he had expressed for the consequence of the bill, at the same time he must say, that he believed never was so much alarm and apprehension expressed on such very slender grounds. He never did, in his intercourse with the Irish landlords, attempt to exaggerate the importance of the measure; but this he said, that believing it to be founded on just and fair principles—utterly denying it would prove injurious to any of those great interests in Ireland, which he should be as sorry to inflict a wound upon as any Member of the House—having received memorials from Ireland from parties complaining of the state of the law—believing the law to be absurd in principle—that whatever practical effect it might have, must be impolitic and iniurious—under these cir-
29237,5591839
37,55918397,9801838
7,98018382,5871837
2,5871837551In l836
551In l836Quarters.
Quarters.
37,5591839
37,55918397,9801838
7,98018382,5871837
2,5871837551In l836
551In l836Quarters.
Quarters.2912,307,2441829
2,307,24418292,240,25018392,826,5901828
2,240,25018392,826,59018283,474,30218381,828,4601827
3,474,30218381,828,46018273,030,29318371,693,3921826
3,030,29318371,693,39218262,958,27218362,203,9621825
2,958,27218362,203,96218252,679,43818351,634,0001824
2,679,43818351,634,00018242,792,65818341,528,1531823
2,792,65818341,528,15318232,737,44118331,063,0891822
2,737,44118331,063,08918222,990,76718321,822,8161821
2,990,76718321,822,81618212,429,18218311,415,7231820
2,429,18218311,415,72318202,215,5211830967,6801819
2,215,5211830967,6801819Quarters.Years.Quarters.Years.
Quarters.Years.Quarters.Years.
2,307,2441829
2,307,24418292,240,25018392,826,5901828
2,240,25018392,826,59018283,474,30218381,828,4601827
3,474,30218381,828,46018273,030,29318371,693,3921826
3,030,29318371,693,39218262,958,27218362,203,9621825
2,958,27218362,203,96218252,679,43818351,634,0001824
2,679,43818351,634,00018242,792,65818341,528,1531823
2,792,65818341,528,15318232,737,44118331,063,0891822
2,737,44118331,063,08918222,990,76718321,822,8161821
2,990,76718321,822,81618212,429,18218311,415,7231820
2,429,18218311,415,72318202,215,5211830967,6801819
2,215,5211830967,6801819Quarters.Years.Quarters.Years.
Quarters.Years.Quarters.Years.290Mr. Labouchere
 remarked, that although the speech of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, might be an answer to the statement made by his hon. Friend, that right hon. Gentleman had, strange to say, made out no case for his own bill. Since the right hon. Gentleman sought to effect a change in the Corn-law of that country, he ought to show the necessity that existed for the change, and that it was sought by some influential parties. The landed interest, the landlords and the millers, were all alarmed, yet the right hon. Gentleman had not condescended to say, at whose suggestion or solicitation the bill had been brought into Parliament, and only one petition had been presented in favour of the measure. It was acknowledged, that the production of the bill had created an immense panic in Ireland, in consequence of the large capital that had been embarked in bonded foreign corn, for the purpose of admixture, relying upon the faith of the existing protection.Mr. Shaw
 supported the measure. He heard no reason alleged against it, except that the millers were alarmed, a class of men who greatly overrated their own importance. They substituted cause for effect. It was not the building of mills that had made agriculture prosperous, but the prosperity of agriculture that had caused the increase of mills.Sir D. Norreys
 supported the bill, because he believed that it would be a great advantage to the community to remove the prohibitory law which created a difference between England and Ireland in respect of the subject of that measure. He supported it likewise because he was convinced that, whilst it would not in the slightest degree injure the agricultural interests of Ireland, it would very much tend to benefit that country.Mr. Hutton
294293 said, his constituents were anxious to have the bill, and that was his answer to the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Dublin. It was, he considered, a great
294293Mr. O'Connell
 said, that, if ever there was a bill to benefit the rich at the expense of the poor, it was the bill in question. No one in Ireland could gain anything by it except the upper classes, who alone, of all the population, used fine flour, and the bakers. The bill besides would do a positive injury to the labouring classes; for it would tend to the direct destruction of the only manufacture now left in that country—the manufacture of flour. There was no reason for the bill—there were no petitions in its favour; there were many against it. The millers had sunk a large capital in the manufacture of flour, on the faith of the restriction sought to be repealed, and he considered that they were fully and fairly entitled to protection. On those grounds, he would oppose the bill.Mr. Litton
295 said, that it was only right that some hon. Member connected with the agriculture of England should express an opinion on the subject, as it was not wholly an Irish question, but in some wise connected with the English Corn-laws; and deprecating, as he did, the slightest infraction of those laws—he could not let the subject pass over in silence on account of the agricultural interest of this country. Would not the facility of importing foreign flour into Ireland increase the facility of importing it into England also? Yet that was the object of the bill. The right hon. President of the Board of Trade had adduced no arguments in support of the bill, he had only replied to the objections to it. It was in his (Mr. O. Gore's) opinion going far too fast for the Government to bring in a bill to repeal a law which had worked well from 1783, which had been passed in an Irish Parliament, which had been discussed in committees from 1774 to the period of its passing, and which had been found in no way to injure the interests of the country. He saw no reason for the change, and on that ground, if there existed no other, he would set his face against it. But there were other grounds. What benefit would it be to the poor of Ireland? It was not a poor man's question, but a rich man's
295Mr. O. Gore
296: The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Shaw) has said, that my right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Trade, has done no more than remove the objections to the bill; and the hon. Gentleman who succeeded him almost admitted in terms that my right hon. Friend had silenced the alarms felt on its introduction. Now I maintain that, if the objections are removed, the reasons given in support of the measure are quite sufficient. It is proposed by the bill to remove a restriction—a restriction, be it remembered, which there exists no ground of danger, of policy, or otherwise, to continue any longer. Now I contend, that such a restriction in itself is a positive evil; and the objection to its removal being satisfied, I contend that its removal is a positive good. The objections once removed, afford a sufficient reason for the removal of the restriction. If the people of Ireland wish to import foreign flour under the conditions of the bill, I think that they should be permitted to import it. It is a question of self-interest, which each man must be left to decide for himself. You cannot teach people upon that point by legislation. As to any danger in respect to the bill, the hon. Member for Belfast has completely proved its impossibility, from the statistical documents that he read to the House. The interest of the people of England and Ireland coincide in this case, as the hon. Member clearly showed too. The reasons he alleged against it were two-fold—the duty on foreign flour, and the near neighbourhood of Ireland. Now neither of these are affected by the bill; for my right hon. Friend does not propose to increase the duty on flour coming into England; and I know that it is not his intention to remove Ireland any further off than it now is from this country. The bill, however, rests for its support on the general principle that there should be no restriction or prohibition without strong reasons. Mere restriction or prohibition for its own sake, either imposed or kept up is wanton, useless, and mischievous in legislation,
296Lord J. Russell
 said, that as a person interested in milling, and having a large capital invested in that trade, he considered the existing prohibition against the importation of foreign flour wholly unavailing. He thought the Irish millers were frightened by an imaginary evil into opposition of the bill before the House; for in all the petitions presented against it, he saw nothing like a substantial argument. He admitted that there were not sufficient grounds to bring forward the measure at the present moment; but he held that a restrictive law on trade was better repealed at any time than permitted to remain on the statute-books. He hoped, however, that the right hon. Gentleman would so modify his bill as to postpone its operation to a later period than he intended.Mr. F. B. Beamish
ex post facto Jackson was happy to bear testimony to the kindness and consideration exhibited by the hon. the President of the Board of Trade yesterday in the reception of the deputation. He had received many communications from various parts of Ireland, and one petition to present from sixty millers in the county of Cork, deprecating the hasty enactment of this bill—a bill which he believed was not called for by any class of men in Ireland. He thought that they ought not to pass a bill in such a shape as to have an ex post factoMr. Sergeant
297 said, that the milling interest of Ireland had been taken unexpectedly and abruptly by this proposition. He had always advocated such a change in the Corn-laws towards Ireland, but he considered this question only a fragment
297Mr. W. Roche
298 said, that he also had been requested to support the prayer of the petition of the sixty millers. The hon. Member for Belfast had urged three reasons against the proposed measure; first, that it was not called for by the petitions of any large portion of the community: that might be a good reason in a doubtful matter, but none in one of practical enlightened state policy like the present; second, that the duty on foreign flour was calculated on too favourable a scale for foreigners compared with our wheat, but that was a point settled and regulated long ago; third, that a great injury would be done to the millers, who had laid in a stock and had it on hand. He was not a miller himself, but he owned several mills, and he was not afraid of the effects of this measure. He recollected when Irish flour had been rejected in the North of England, but the wants of Cheshire and Lancashire had caused it to be sought after, and thus it would, if freely permitted, work its way according to its value and the growing wants of the country. He was hot afraid that any importation of foreign flour into Ireland could injure the Irish millers. The foreigner would not send it to the country where it brought a low price, but to that where it would bring a high price. There was a great general call for this permission to import from the merchants of Belfast and other ports in the North of Ireland. At present, they could not get back flour in exchange for their manufactured goods from America without sending it into an English warehouse at great inconvenience. The House might feel assured, that the merchant would not attempt to send this return flour into Ireland in ordinary years, for he could get no remunerating price for it. There was a growing degree of intelligence in Ireland springing out of the absence of political distinctions that led men to look comprehensively at national questions like the present. For his part, he was satisfied with the laws that were found good for England—but he agreed with his hon. Colleague that, as there were sixty millers who declared that this measure would injure them, it would be only fair to postpone it to give them the time they asked for. He thought that the millers ought to have the power of grind-
298Mr. Callaghan
That flesh and blood can't bear it!"To Skin and Bone,But be it knownWould starve us all, or near it;Two millers thin,"Bone and Skin, said, he was against any postponement of the measure. This was the time to pass it with any advantage to the people of Ireland. It was a miller's question, and they obviously intended to grind the face of the poor, but he would stand up for the consumer. He was reminded of the fact of the existence of a mill in Manchester, some eighty or ninety years ago, by which a couple of millers monopolised the grinding of corn for all the town at such extravagant prices that an epigram was made to keep the fact in remembrance:—
That flesh and blood can't bear it!"To Skin and Bone,But be it knownWould starve us all, or near it;Two millers thin,"Bone and Skin,Mr. Brotherton
 said, that he felt rather disinclined to agree to a long postponement. If the Irish Members were to agree to the second reading of the bill as it stood, he would not press any further proceedings till after Easter.Mr. Labouchere
299 rose among cries of "Question." He said, he had never manifested any impatience at all to the nonsense and twaddle uttered by others, and they must show a little similar patience towards him, otherwise he would give them cause to exhibit a great deal of impatience. He asked if it were true that the bill was necessary for the health of the people of Ireland? Was it true that the quality of the wheat was so bad as it was represented? Was it calculated to produce disease there? Every Member who had risen from thence, had stated, or admitted, that it was. Therefore, this bill ought to be passed as early as possible, and it would be better that the two Irish gentlemen, who complained of its probable effects on their property in flour, should be compensated, than that any delay should be caused on that account. The hon. Gentlemen on the other side were afraid that this measure would introduce more food into this country. The conduct of the landlords was creating daily more indignation and disgust. It was impossible that the Corn-laws could stand, the national feeling was so strong against it,
299Mr. Wakley
 said, that perhaps the noble Lord would allow him to take this opportunity of putting a question to him, upon a subject which had excited great interest both in and out of that House. He desired to be informed whether it was intended that the name of his Royal Highness Prince Albert should be inserted in the Liturgy.Mr. W. Duncombe
 had no intimation to make to the House upon the subject.Lord John Russell
"That a congratulatory Message be sent to Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, to congratulate Her Royal Highness upon the marriage of her Majesty; an event so deeply interesting to the maternal feelings of Her Royal Highness, and so conducive to the happiness of Her Majesty.'" said, that there was one other motion which he proposed to make, of which he had given no notice, but it was for another congratulatory Message, to which he thought that the House would not object. The noble Lord moved,—
"That a congratulatory Message be sent to Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, to congratulate Her Royal Highness upon the marriage of her Majesty; an event so deeply interesting to the maternal feelings of Her Royal Highness, and so conducive to the happiness of Her Majesty.'"Lord John Russell
248 first begged to state, that the Governor-general on her Majesty's North American provinces had obtained the consent of the legislative councils to take measures for the union of the two provinces of Upper and Lower Canada, By the last accounts which had
248Lord John Russell
"That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, to congratulate her Majesty on the auspicious occasion of her Majesty's marriage, and to assure her Majesty of the cordial joy and satisfaction which this House feels at an event which is a fresh instance of her Majesty's regard for the interests of her people, and of so much importance to her Majesty's domestic happiness, and to the welfare of the country."249: I rise, Sir, in pursuance of a notice which stands upon the votes of the House, to move an address to her Majesty, on the occasion of her Majesty's marriage with Prince Albert of Saxe Coburg and Gotha. It will not require any arguments from me, I am persuaded, to induce the House to consent, most willingly, to this address, for I am sure that the House will feel as anxious as I do, to render its congratulations, upon an occasion not only interesting to Parliament, and conducive to the comfort and happiness of her Majesty, but of great importance to the welfare of the State. And allow me, with regard to this subject to observe, that it must be a source of the greatest satisfaction to the country, to think that her Majesty has been more fortunate, with respect to her
"That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, to congratulate her Majesty on the auspicious occasion of her Majesty's marriage, and to assure her Majesty of the cordial joy and satisfaction which this House feels at an event which is a fresh instance of her Majesty's regard for the interests of her people, and of so much importance to her Majesty's domestic happiness, and to the welfare of the country."249Lord John Russell
"That a congratulatory Message be sent to His Royal Highness Prince Albert of Saxe Coburg and Gotha, to congratulate his Royal Highness upon his marriage, and to express the joy and satisfaction which this House feels upon seeing the ardent wishes of a faithful people fulfilled by her Majesty's wise and happy choice, and by her Majesty's union to a prince distinguished by a descent so illustrious, and by a character formed to support and adorn his exalted station." then moved,
"That a congratulatory Message be sent to His Royal Highness Prince Albert of Saxe Coburg and Gotha, to congratulate his Royal Highness upon his marriage, and to express the joy and satisfaction which this House feels upon seeing the ardent wishes of a faithful people fulfilled by her Majesty's wise and happy choice, and by her Majesty's union to a prince distinguished by a descent so illustrious, and by a character formed to support and adorn his exalted station."Lord John Russell
303 had nothing to say on this motion, except with reference to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had spoken last. He conceived the state of the case to be this: they were endeavouring to vindicate the power of printing and publishing their proceedings; that power wag interfered with by what bad
303Lord John Russell
posse comitatusl305304 said, that if the noble Lord intended to keep the sheriff
posse comitatusl305304Sir Edward Sugden
l then moved a resolution, that the order directing the sheriffs to pay over 640lSir E. B. Sugden
 seconded the motion. On what grounds did they detain that Gentleman? Did they keep him as a sort of hostage for the safe custody of their declaratory bill? The law officers of the Crown, knowing that actions were going on, ought to have been prepared the other night to state the course which they proposed to pursue. In what a situation were the sheriffs placed by that want of decision. If they intended to carry out their principle, they ought to stop the action at every stage—certainly before it reached the sheriffs. When the noble Lord had said that it was impossible to stop these actions, and that it was necessary that a declaratory bill should be passed, from that moment they ought to have discontinued their proceedings against individuals. Did the noble Lord still propose to introduce a measure? If so, there was no reason for detaining this gentleman. They had no right to treat him as a hostage; and the noble Lord having stated that it was impossible to vindicate the privileges of the House through the sheriffs, their imprisonment ought now to cease. The Solicitor-general had stated, that if the Government did not carry out his course, he would vote for the instant relief of the sheriffs. Was he not as strictly bound by that declaration as any pledge could bind him? But the hon. and learned Gentleman had not redeemed his pledge; and he (Mr. Darby) was glad that he had now the opportunity of redeeming it.Mr. Darby
306 said, the question was whether twenty-three days' imprisonment of
306Mr. Godson
302lhabeas corpus called the attention of the House to the case of Mr. W. Evans, whose health had materially suffered from his imprisonment from close confinement, and from the nature of the room in which he was placed. If his imprisonment were continued much longer, it was impossible to say what serious consequences might follow. The privileges of the House had been fully satisfied, inasmuch as the Court of Queen's Bench had decided that the return to the writ of 302lhabeas corpusMr. Alderman Thompson
 inquired of the noble Lord the Secretary for die Colonies, whether any intention existed on the part of the Government to bring in a bill for the union of the two Canadas? He also desired to know whether the returns relating to the various religious denominations in Upper Canada, a part of which were sent home by Governor Arthur last year, would be soon completed, and whether, when they were sent home, there would be any objection to their being laid before the House? He further begged to ask whether Sir George Arthur had been superseded, or whether he had resigned?Mr. Pakington
 said, I trust I may be permitted to perform the satisfactory duty of seconding the motion proposed by the noble Lord. I feel that the ordinary phrases of congratulation are so trifling and so exhausted by repetition, that it is perfectly consistent with good taste and with my own sentiments to express my feelings in a very few words. I beg, therefore, on my own part, and on that of the great party with which I have the honour to be connected, to express our most cordial congratulations to her Majesty, and the sense of great satisfaction which we entertain, that her Majesty has been able to perform a public duty in such a manner as to render it grateful to her own feelings; and to join in the prayer offered by the noble Lord, that not only the public happiness of the country, but the personal happiness and comfort of our Sovereign may be ensured by this union.Sir R. Peel
l319"That your petitioners find, on examining
l319 had another petition to present to the House from Messrs. Hansard, which he moved should be read by the clerk.l319"That your petitioners find, on examining
l319Lord John Russell
 asked the noble Lord if it were true, that Mr. Howard the attorney of Stockdale, had brought an action against the son of the Sergeant-at-Arms?Sir E. Sugden
321"That John Joseph Stockdale, by commencing this action, in which notice had been given to the defendant to attend a writ of inquiry on the 20th February, such action being brought for acts done by a servant of that House, pursuant to the orders and resolutions of that House, made in the exercise of the privileges of Parliament, had been guilty of a contempt of the House and of a breach of its privileges; and that the sheriffs, under-sheriffs, and others who should aid in the prosecution of the said action, would be guilty of a contempt of the House, and of a violation of its privileges, and subject themselves to the severe censure and displeasure of the House."320 had received no official information on the subject. If the fact was so, it would no doubt be stated in a petition to that House. His Lordship then moved the order of the day for the consideration of the petition of the Messrs. Hansard. The noble Lord said that the motion he was now about to make was in consequence of the resolution the House had already come to in reference to the present action, directing the Messrs. Hansard not to appear in the court of law, to plead to that action. In order to prevent judgment being signed against the Messrs. Hansard, it now became necessary for the House to say what other course they would think proper to take in order to maintain that privilege of publication which they had already so frequently supported. This being the only question involved in the present position of the question, it was unnecessary for him, on the present occasion, to enter into any consideration either of the power of the House to publish, or the propriety of their officers appearing in a court of law to plead to an action of this kind. The only question to be considered now was, what course the House would take to vindicate those privileges they had so often asserted, and to prevent the consequences that must otherwise result from that action—the recovery by Stockdale from Messrs Hansard of any sum of money as damages for a publication made under the authority of that House. It appeared to him that the most proper course to follow in the present case was to resolve that the action was a contempt of the House and a breach of its privileges; and that any person who should act in pursu-
321"That John Joseph Stockdale, by commencing this action, in which notice had been given to the defendant to attend a writ of inquiry on the 20th February, such action being brought for acts done by a servant of that House, pursuant to the orders and resolutions of that House, made in the exercise of the privileges of Parliament, had been guilty of a contempt of the House and of a breach of its privileges; and that the sheriffs, under-sheriffs, and others who should aid in the prosecution of the said action, would be guilty of a contempt of the House, and of a violation of its privileges, and subject themselves to the severe censure and displeasure of the House."320Lord John Russell
322 said, he should be quite as short as the noble Lord had been upon this subject, especially after the many discussions it had already undergone. He wished only for a moment to draw the attention of the House to the consequences that might arise from this further step which they were now about to take at the suggestion of the noble Lord. The resolution now proposed would, if carried, include judges and counsel. Why, it included and named "sheriffs, under-she-riffs, agents, bailiffs, officers, clerks, and others." Amongst them, then, must be included judges, for the under-sheriff sat as a judge; therefore the resolution went to effect both the under-sheriff and the counsel who pleaded before him. The House had already had difficulties enough to contend with; and it had abstained hitherto from meddling with the judges and counsel concerned in all the measures that had taken place in connexion with this business up to the present time. The House had not as yet had courage to bring any Member of the bar before it, because they knew that it would be utterly impossible to do that without grappling with the Lord Chief Justice of England. The counsel who had pleaded in the former actions they had not called to their bar; but if they passed this resolution, they would be bound by it to punish the under-sheriff, who might sit as judge and direct the jury, and also the counsel who should plead before him. He had hoped that the majority of the House were prepared to take a different course from that which they had been pursuing. True, the decision which had been come to was the decision of the majority, but it did not follow that it was a correct decision. It was the voice of the majority; but the voice of a majority was not always the voice of reason. There had been a triumphant majority in support of the opinions which he did not hold on this question, but that majority had assumed a tone of feeling very different from that displayed by the minority. The minority was respectable in numbers, and certainly they were so in point of talent and competency to deal with this question, and they had maintained their opinion with moderation as well as firmness. But he had to complain that upon this occa-
322Sir E. Sugden
324323 said, he had witnessed from the first with great anxiety the conduct pursued by the members of the legal profession on the other side of the House, who acknowledged that they thought the House possessed the privilege of publishing their proceedings, but thwarted the only method by which they could be vindicated. That anxiety had been deepened into pain when he saw the hon. Member for Exeter, and the right hon. Member for Ripon, who were Members of the committee from which the resolutions had proceeded. [Sir E. Sugden: I beg the hon. Member's pardon, I was not a Member of that committee.] The mistake was of little importance. The right hon. and learned Gentleman, then, without being a Member of that committee, who stood so high in his profession, and had filled offices of great importance, and whose opinions were so much esteemed, was acquainted with the resolutions which had emanated from that committee, and was in Parliament when they were adopted by the House; yet he now opposed all the measures which were proposed for the vindication of the privileges which those resolutions went to uphold. The course pursued by the minority on
324323Sir C. Grey
 wished to know whether it was intended under the term "other parties," to include the jury?Sir E. Sugden
: No.Lord John Russell
 wished to remark, that although he entirely approved of the course hitherto pursued, he thought that the House should not stop here. Howard and Stockdale had been committed for an aggravated breach of the privileges of that House; and, after continued caution, persisted in acting in contempt of their privileges. He thought that these parties ought not to be allowed to go on with their repetitions of the breaches of privilege without visiting them with extraordinary punishment, and with more severity than hitherto, both as regarded the conduct of Stockdale and Howard. The House had already committed them for instituting an action against one of its servants for acts done by its orders; and as they seemed determined to persevere in their actions in contempt of its undoubted privileges, that they should be punished with increased severity, in order to show that it was not to be trifled with, and that it would not suffer parties to persist in pursuing a course which was almost calculated to bring its authority into contempt.Viscount Howick
 wished to know what the noble Lord meant by extraordinary punishment.Sir E. Knatchbull
—Oh, to hang them.An Hon. Member
 replied, that these persons were now in ordinary confinement; what he meant was, that they should be placed in close custody, and that they should not allow access to them unless under restrictions.Viscount Howick
327peine forte et dure had thought, when he heard the observations of the noble Viscount, that he was anxious to revive the 327peine forte et dureMr. Law
328 observed, that as he understood the noble Lord, he did not propose to inflict any such harsh punishment on these persons as had been supposed by the hon. and learned Member, but that such access should not be afforded to them as would tend to facilitate the bringing such actions as the present. He would not, however, say whether the suggestion of the noble Lord should be adopted or not, but he felt satisfied that the privileges of that House could be effectually vindicated by their proceeding with that calmness and discretion which was necessary. Was the House aware, that this was the fifth action which had been brought by Mr. Stock-dale against the servant of that House? And was it not its duty to interfere, and take care that these parties should not be allowed to proceed with actions involving continued breaches of the privileges of that House? He thought that the House could restrain the attorney from acting for Stockdale, and prevent other persons from carrying on actions in Mr. Howard's name. At present that person could employ his clerks and apprentices to act for him in these actions; and if they
328Mr. O'Connell
329 had asked the noble Lord whether he intended to include the jurors within the words "other parties," and he understood the noble Lord to answer in the negative; but the expression was so vague and general, that it might be made to include the jury as well as any other persons. He thought that the noble Lord, from what had taken place that night, would see the inconvenience that resulted from his refusing to communicate to the opposite side the slightest information as to the course that he intended to pursue. He repeated that such comprehensive terms as "other parties" might be taken to include the jury that would be called upon to assess the damages in this case, for no Member of that side of the House had had the means of informing his judgment on the subject until within the last few minutes, as the noble Lord, on Friday, refused to communicate the course he intended to take. Under these circumstances he should feel it to be his duty to oppose this resolution, the terms of which he maintained could not be understood. He begged to congratulate the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, on his suggestion, and he should be glad to hear from him how, if it were adopted, he intended that it should be followed up. He could tell the
329Sir E. Sugden
330 thought that the House should act with extreme caution in the proceedings which they adopted, lest they should find themselves involved in a contest with the legal authorities of the land before they were aware of it. With respect to the suggestion of the noble Lord for placing these persons in solitary confinement, or for increasing the severity of their imprisonment, he would beg to remind him that the regulations of gaols were framed in conformity with an act of Parliament, and, therefore, they were not directly under the control of the House, and could not be altered by it. When a party, therefore, was sent to a prison, under a warrant of the House, he was not dealt with according to the good pleasure
330Mr. Ingham
333332"Then the only question remaining was that of damages. On that subject there was no question made at the bar, and there could not now be in any place whatever, that it was desirable that free discussion should be encouraged, and that facts in which all were interested should be fully made known to the world; but at the same time no party must attack the character of another by reports which could not be substantially proved to be true, unless such reports appeared under particular circumstances. For instance, the publication of the proceedings of this day would probably be held in all the courts to be protected, if the report was fairly given as a report of a judicial proceeding, with which it was of importance that all men should be acquainted. But nobody must insert statements of his own in newspapers without being prepared to establish their truth."331 said, that the right hon. Member for Ripon had censured him, and the majority of the House, for not listening to the voice of reason. He did not for a moment doubt the sincerity of the right hon. Gentleman, but the right hon. Gentleman must excuse him for not attaching the same authority as the right hon. Gentleman did to his own opinion on this subject. When he found so many high legal and high political authorities adopt an opinion directly opposed to that of the right hon. Gentleman, and concur in the view that he took of this subject, he was induced to think that he listened to the voice of reason, and that both the reason and authority in the opposite opinion outweighed even the authority of the right hon. Gentleman. As for the want of courtesy with which he had been charged, he could not help observing, that when he recollected the attacks made on the majority, and when he thought that Gentlemen opposite were greatly disposed to impute tyrannical motives to those who wished to preserve the privileges of the House, the charge came with a bad grace from Gentlemen opposite. As for the observation which fell from his noble Friend, be could not help saying that a not very fair construction had been put upon it, but that an attempt had been made to attach a meaning to his noble Friend's words which they would not bear. He was of opinion that the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that the servants or clerks of Mr. Howard, or any person employed by him to contravene the orders of the House, should be rendered liable to the displeasure of the House—would be a better mode of proceeding than that of increasing the severity of the custody of the persons already imprisoned. As so much had been said on this occasion, he thought it necessary to recal to the House what was the main object of the present proceedings. The main object was to maintain the power of publication for useful purposes. The object they had in view, and which had been contested, was that of ordering information which was useful for Parliament and for the public to be published; not for any private purpose, not to serve any private malignity, not to gra-
333332"Then the only question remaining was that of damages. On that subject there was no question made at the bar, and there could not now be in any place whatever, that it was desirable that free discussion should be encouraged, and that facts in which all were interested should be fully made known to the world; but at the same time no party must attack the character of another by reports which could not be substantially proved to be true, unless such reports appeared under particular circumstances. For instance, the publication of the proceedings of this day would probably be held in all the courts to be protected, if the report was fairly given as a report of a judicial proceeding, with which it was of importance that all men should be acquainted. But nobody must insert statements of his own in newspapers without being prepared to establish their truth."331Lord John Russell
 said, he should be the last man in that House to call in question the great national services performed by the House of Commons at the periods to which the noble Lord who last spoke had referred. He reverenced the memory of an ancestor of his own who had been concerned in those proceedings, and he trusted that he estimated them too justly not to acknowledge the benefits which they had conferred upon the cause of public liberty. But it should be recollected that in those times the judges were the mere creatures of the Crown, dependent upon the will of the sovereign, and subservient to his purposes. There did not appear to be at present the least disposition to invade the privileges of the House for any such purposes as formerly influenced their opponents. He thought that in the present times there was more danger from the usurpations of majorities of that House than from any thing which could possibly proceed from the judges.Lord Eliot
 thought, that the intentions with which the present motion was brought forward ought to be clearly stated. He fully believed that the whole proceeding would prove ineffectual.Mr. M. Attwood
 Hansard called to the bar.Mr. James
 said—Have you been served with the notes of inquiry in the fourth action?The Attorney-General
—I have.Mr. Hansard
—When?The Attorney-General
—On Wednesday, the 12th of this month.Mr. Hansard
—By whom?The Attorney-General
—By a person whose name I have understood is Pearce, and who is stated to be a clerk of Mr. Howard.Mr. Hansard
—Have you been served with a writ in the fifth action? and when, and where, and by whom?The Attorney-General
—I have been served with a writ in the fifth action. It was served on me in our counting-house in the course of last week, by, I believe, the son of Mr. Howard. It was the same person who served me with the writ in the fourth action. He said he was the son of Mr. Howard.Mr. Hansard
—Do you continue to sell the publication which has been complained of as libellous?Mr. Law
—I have some copies of it, but it is considered to be out of print.Mr. Hansard
—Is it, in point of fact, out of print, or what do you wish the House to understand by saying that it is out of print? Have you been advised by any one to discontinue the sale?Mr. Law
—I have not been so advised. We have no copies now for sale—none besides the reserved copies.Mr. Hansard
—Is it always the practice to keep any number of reserved copies.Mr. Law
—It is the invariable practice. I had no other reason for discontinuing the sale other than the necessity of keeping reserved copies.Mr. Hansard
—Is it not always the practice, when the number of copies on hand are reduced to 50, to stop the sale, and reserve those to be issued only to special orders?Mr. Hume
—That is the practice, and it was in conformity with that that I said they were considered to be out of print.Mr. Hansard
 having withdrawn from the bar,Mr. Hansard
 hoped that his hon. and learned Friend would not press this motion. The House had now quite as many as they could deal with.Mr. Law
 said, if they were not to commit the clerks, by what right could they hold the employers of those clerks in custody? They had no spite to Mr. Howard—they merely wanted to prevent fresh actions. It would be in vain to confine him if they let the clerks go at large. How otherwise could they repress proceedings? Those who thus infringed the privileges of the House of Commons were represented as heroes and martyrs. He was but following up the resolution which the House had just adopted, and he had no doubt that the proceedings would be attended with better success than the hon. and learned Recorder anticipated.The Attorney-General
 would ask the learned Attorney-general whether he really believed that the course proposed would be effectual? Suppose he took every clerk of Mr. Howard, every member of his establishment, every servant of his house, did he not think there were hundreds of other attornies ready to do the duty which they were called upon by their clients to perform, and who would, therefore, take up these actions?Mr. Shaw
 said, that he might, perhaps, be allowed to ask the right hon. and learned Gentleman whether he believed that the House had any privileges or any means of vindicating them?The Attorney-General
 said he could easily answer that question. He had before stated that it was desirable to maintain their privileges by all proper means, but not to carry their privileges beyond their proper limits. He thought they should take the opinion of a court of error on the subject, and, if necessary, procure an Act of Parliament to be passed, which he thought there would be no difficulty in obtaining, either declaratory or enactive of their privileges.Mr. Shaw
 suggested that the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge should not divide the House on this occasion, but should wait until the matter again came before the House.Sir E. Sugden
337336 said, he should not
337336Viscount Howick
338 said, that this subject was now much discussed throughout the kingdom. He had lately been down in the country, and, at a public dinner at which he had been present, he, without any hesitation, proposed the health of the sheriffs with three times three; ay, and it was drunk, too, with great applause. The feeling of disgust at the conduct of the noble Lord and his party was every day increasing. He rejoiced to say this: it was working well, and he firmly believed that the steps taken in this matter by the noble Lord, and those who acted with
338Colonel Sibthorp
 wished to draw the attention of the House to the circumstance, that whilst the sheriff was in custody he had no opportunity of refusing or agreeing to the wishes of the House. He would therefore defer his motion on this subject until to-morrow, so that the Government might consider whether or not they would give the sheriff an opportunity, as a free agent, of agreeing to or refusing to act in conformity with what they directed.Mr. Godson
 rose to order, and said, he thought it his duty to interfere on this occasion, because, he was sure that if the hon. Gentleman went on, he would transgress one of the rules of the House. He should say, that when he had received notice of the hon. Gentleman's motion, he had intimated to him that it was irregular, and that he should withdraw it. He felt that if he now persevered in the observations he was making he would be acting out of order.The Speaker
340"We, the archbishop and bishops of the Church of England, together with the clergy, do most humbly beg leave to express the great and deep sense that we have of your Majesty's most tender compassion for the poor clergy of this Church, who have hardly wherewith to support themselves in the exercise of their ministry, and of your Majesty's gracious intentions, even by bestowing your own revenue to make a provision for them, in such a manner as you were pleased to declare in your Majesty's late message to the House of Commons. We cannot be thankful enough for so singular a blessing as we enjoy in a Queen who has recommended our holy religion to her subjects
340Liber Regis339 said he wished to bring under the consideration of the House a subject involving the interests and the public estimation of one of the most numerous and important orders of men in the State. And as the object that he sought to attain was a great practical reform, by the removal of a grievance which had existed in one of our principal public institutions ever since the Reformation, he ventured to claim from the House its patient attention. That object was a competent maintenance for the poor clergy, to be effected by a more equitable distribution of the revenues of the richest ecclesiastical establishment in the world, and of which they were the most efficient ministers. On several former occasions he had urged the claims of the poor clergy in that House, and asked for them that support which it was intended to afford them by Queen Anne's Bounty; but of which, as he conceived, they had hitherto been unjustly deprived. When had he last the honour to make this motion, which was for a committee of the whole House, to take into consideration the propriety of abolishing the first-fruits of the clergy, and making the real tenths conducive to the more efficient augmentation of the maintenance of the poor clergy, he had been so fortunate as to carry his motion by a majority of two to one; and he hoped, that the arguments he had now to adduce would secure to the cause he advocated equal and ultimate success. He had then entered at some length upon the historical details of the first-fruits and tenths, but it would be sufficient now to say, as the subject was better understood, that these were ancient imposts paid by the clergy—as ancient.
340"We, the archbishop and bishops of the Church of England, together with the clergy, do most humbly beg leave to express the great and deep sense that we have of your Majesty's most tender compassion for the poor clergy of this Church, who have hardly wherewith to support themselves in the exercise of their ministry, and of your Majesty's gracious intentions, even by bestowing your own revenue to make a provision for them, in such a manner as you were pleased to declare in your Majesty's late message to the House of Commons. We cannot be thankful enough for so singular a blessing as we enjoy in a Queen who has recommended our holy religion to her subjects
340Liber Regis339Mr. Baines
318: I am speaking upon the question of order. It is within the rules and orders of the House that any Gentleman may ask leave of the House to address it, and it is within the power of the House, if it be their pleasure, to hear him. If it be not the pleasure of the House to hear me, I shall not persist in the observations which I was about to make, but if it be their pleasure, I shall proceed. The right hon. Gentleman then went on to say, that it was on the behalf of those gentlemen to whom he had referred, and on whom a reflection had been cast by implication, that he asked permission of the House to say a few words, and they should be very few. What he had to say was simply this—that with any of those persons, from Lord Lichfield and Colonel Maberly, from the very highest to the very lowest, he had held no communication, direct or indirect whatsoever. He declared, on his honour as a gentleman, that he had not received from any one of those persons any sort of communication or intimation of what was going on within the Post-office. This was the statement which he had to make, and the
318Mr. Herries
 said, that in consequence of the step now taken by the hon. Gentleman in withdrawing the notice which he had given, on the ground of irregularity, he should take it as a great favour if the House would allow him to say a very few words. Every Gentleman who had read the notice which appeared on the paper for that day would form his own judgment on the propriety of that notice; upon so much or" it as related to himself he should offer no observations, but there were others concerned in the notice which appeared on the votes of the House of Commons, in behalf of whom he begged permission of the House to say a very few words. He meant, when he used these terms, to refer to the officers of the Post-office, who were designated in the notice of the hon. Gentleman as the "authorities of the Post-office," and with respect to whom it was proposed, that the names of such persons should be laid on the Table of the House for furnishing information to him. Now, as all those gentlemen had characters to uphold, it would be of great importance—Mr. Herries
 said, that this was a subject of too much importance to be discussed in so thin a House, and he moved that the House be counted.—House counted out.Mr. Plumptre
.—Sir, I rise to order, the right hon. Gentleman is guilty of an irregularity in persisting to address the House,Mr. Wallace
 referring to his notice of motion upon the paper for the evening, for "copies or extracts of all the information that had been furnished by the authorities of the Post-office to the right hon. Member for Harwich, &c, with the particulars of such verbal communications (if any) respecting an anticipated or probable deficiency in the Post-office revenue, as alluded to by the right hon. Member for Harwich, in the debate on the financial state of the country, on Thursday, the 13th inst," said, that he found that his notice was not strictly regular, as it had referred to what had taken place in a former debate, and as it was always his wish to avoid any irregularity where the forms of the House were concerned, he begged to withdraw his motion for the present.Mr. Wallace
 said, he was exceedingly gratified by the statement of the right hon. Gentleman opposite. The right hon. Member was reported to have said the other evening, and he believed did say—Mr. Wallace
 would then only say, that having heard the statement of the right hon. Member, he begged to assure him and the House that he gave most entire credit to his statement, and that, not wishing to convey any impression whatever that would be disagreeable to him or the officers of the Post-office, he would withdraw his motion altogether.Mr. Wallace
"I receive with great satisfaction this mark of the attention of the House of Commons, which is most gratifying to my feelings, and I return them many thanks for their congratulations."344 appeared at the bar, and stated, that the several noblemen and gentlemen deputed by the House to present the address lately voted to her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, had at-
"I receive with great satisfaction this mark of the attention of the House of Commons, which is most gratifying to my feelings, and I return them many thanks for their congratulations."344The Earl of Lincoln
347 said, that it was clear that this young gentleman was continuing the action brought by his father as the attorney of Stockdale against Messrs. Hansard, the printers of that House, and that he knew that his father had been confined in Newgate for a breach of the privileges of the House in bringing a former action for the same cause. Now, the House must either give up its powers altogether, or interpose at once, because if an attorney's clerk could carry on an action in his master's name, and remain at liberty, the object of the House would be defeated. The hon.
347The Attorney-General
351"That James Naylor be set on the pillory, with his head in the pillory, in the New Palace, Westminster, during the space of two hours, on Thursday next, and shall be whipped by the hangman through the streets from Westminster to the Old Exchange, London, and there likewise be set upon the pillory, with his head in the pillory, for the space of two hours, between the hours of eleven and one on Saturday next, in each of the said places, wearing a paper containing an inscription of his crimes; and that at the Old Exchange his tongue shall be bored through with a hot iron, and that he be then also stigmatised on the forehead with the letter B. That he be afterwards sent to Bristol, and conveyed into and through the said city, on a horse bare ridged, with his face backward, and there also publicly whipped the next market-day after he comes thither; that from thence he be committed to prison in Bridewell, London, and there restrained from the society of all people, and kept to hard labour till he shall be released by Parliament; and during that time be debarred from the use of pen, ink, and paper, and shall have no relief but what he earns by his daily labour."350l.,349348 had heard with great surprise the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend, and he was sure that after the speech that they had just heard, the House was not prepared to say whether the action that was brought, and for which they were asked to declare the person just called to the bar guilty of a breach of privileges, was the second, the third, the fourth, or the fifth action. The young man was called to the bar for proceeding in a new action, and he was questioned by the Attorney-general on the subject, and his answers showed that he was, intentionally, freed from all blame in this action, and in consequence the House would have been obliged to discharge him from further attendance. The Attorney-general, however, then proceeded to question him respecting, not the action for which he was called to the bar, but the action for which his father had been committed to custody. No farther question was asked of him than to elicit from him that he was acquainted with the nature of that action. He was greatly surprised, and he was sure that the House must have been so, to have found this young man called upon to answer in an action in which damages were levied and paid. The House had no information as to the nature of any particular action on which these parties had been summoned to-night. The Attorney-general, however, proposed that they should proceed against this boy, though he merely executed a duty which he was bound by his articles to execute. This youth no-doubt thought he might be excused for acting in his particular situation, when he might have thought that the cause of action had been confirmed by the full court of the Court of Queen's Bench. It appeared to
351"That James Naylor be set on the pillory, with his head in the pillory, in the New Palace, Westminster, during the space of two hours, on Thursday next, and shall be whipped by the hangman through the streets from Westminster to the Old Exchange, London, and there likewise be set upon the pillory, with his head in the pillory, for the space of two hours, between the hours of eleven and one on Saturday next, in each of the said places, wearing a paper containing an inscription of his crimes; and that at the Old Exchange his tongue shall be bored through with a hot iron, and that he be then also stigmatised on the forehead with the letter B. That he be afterwards sent to Bristol, and conveyed into and through the said city, on a horse bare ridged, with his face backward, and there also publicly whipped the next market-day after he comes thither; that from thence he be committed to prison in Bridewell, London, and there restrained from the society of all people, and kept to hard labour till he shall be released by Parliament; and during that time be debarred from the use of pen, ink, and paper, and shall have no relief but what he earns by his daily labour."350l.,349348Sir E. Sugden
 said, the right hon. and learned Gentleman had entirely mistaken the case. The question which he had put to the person at the bar related to the fourth action, and with that action that person acknowledged that he had proceeded, although he knew that his father had been committed for a breach of privilege for commencing the same. It was for the fourth action that the father had been committed, and it was for following up that action that the son was now called to account. The right hon. Baronet might have taken another opportunity of entering into the question of privilege.The Attorney-General
352 was at a loss, even now, to understand, with any degree of certainty, to which action the present resolution had reference. Was it the fifth or the fourth action upon which the House was about to proceed? If the fifth action had not been brought, would the present proceedings have been taken? He thought it was by no means fair to deal with the
352Sir E. Knatchbull
354entrée353 thought the majority had been treated with very little courtesy, for they had been compelled to listen to the reiteration of the same arguments from the minority, who were still unyielding, very conscientiously, no doubt, to what appeared to be the unanimous opinion of an overwhelming majority of the House. The right hon. Baronet appeared to have fallen into mistake as to the nature of the motion; it was not at present for commitment. The motion was to declare whether or not the person who had been called before the bar of the House was guilty of a breach of privilege. For his own part, he (Mr. O'Connell) should be sorry to vote for his commitment until he had ascertained that the House had declared that he had been guilty of a breach of privilege; and then, if called before the bar, and informed of that decision of the House, he should hold out the least hope that he would not continue to prosecute the action, he would not press for his commitment. There could not be the slightest doubt that the
354entrée353Mr. O'Connell
 said, he was rather unwilling to take a part in the present discussion, but he could not help saying that, notwithstanding all the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had said, he thought they had summoned the lad to their bar to answer for one offence, and now they were going to punish him for another. It was in consequence of the petition from the Messrs. Hansard which the noble Lord had presented, complaining that a new action had been brought against them, he believed the fifth or sixth action, that the present proceedings had been taken by the House. The youth who had made his appearance at the bar had answered the questions put to him in a satisfactory manner; but he had certainly been entrapped into an answer with respect to the fourth action, because he answered very openly and honestly every question that was put to him. He begged the House to consider before they decided on committing this boy how far they were prepared to go in this course? How many sons would they continue to commit for obeying their fathers? If any mode could be devised by which the House could get out of this difficulty, it ought to be adopted. An hon. Member had said, in the course of the discussions which had taken place, on this subject, that unless the privileges of the House were supported by public opinion, it would not be easy to maintain them; but he very much doubted whether the people of this country would uphold them in sending lads one after another to gaol for obeying their fathers, whom by legal articles they were bound to obey. He hoped, therefore, that the House would pause before they took the present step. When he heard the lad give the first series of answers he was glad to find, that he said nothing which could implicate him, for the answers were satisfactory as far as he was concerned. But he did not expect that hon. Members would go trying back in order to fix on some former proceeding so as to lay hold of something for which the lad had not been summoned to answer.Colonel Wood
357356habeas corpus355 thought it quite immaterial to the question whether the young
357356habeas corpus355Mr. T. Duncombe
359358, in seconding the amendment, said that up to a recent period he had voted with the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) on all these questions of privilege, and he had done so in the belief that the House ought to possess the full right of publication. He considered that there were many things objectionable in the course pursued by the Government in this matter, but still the right of publication of their proceedings was so important that he thought it should be secured by every means in their power. However, on consulting some friends who were more learned in these matters, he felt convinced that the House did not, by the course it was pursuing, gain the right which they claimed, and that it was daily weakening the authority of the law in the country. The House did not gain the publicity which it sought, for the blue books which were sent forth in such numbers in every session, were not read by the public. The public came to a knowledge of their contents through the daily, weekly, and, monthly press, and yet none of these were protected in such publications, and an action might be brought against any one of those publications for any alleged libel in those reports; so that, in fact, there was no publicity whatever gained by the House—at least none that was protected. It was, therefore, necessary that the House should take some other course. Experience had shown that in all the contests in which it was engaged as regarded its privilege, it had never succeeded except it was backed by public opinion; but he must say that public opinion was not with them on this occasion. He would repeat, that the public opinion was decidedly against them. He had had many representations on this subject from some of his constituents. He did not say that he had changed his opinion on that account, but he would assert that one could not meet with any persons out of that House, except the hangers on of Government, who did not say that the House was acting
359358Mr. Leader
361360 had listened with some surprise and unmitigated pain to the speech of the hon. Member for Finsbury, and at finding with what slight regard to circumstances he discharged his Parliamentary duty. There was scarcely one ground of objection which he now urged which would not have applied with equal force to the votes he had already given on this subject. What, let him ask, had since occurred to induce him to change his opinion? The hon. Member for Westminster said, that they would not secure publication by what they were now doing, and that the reports of the proceedings of Committees found their way to the public only through the daily, weekly, and monthly press. Did the hon. Member recollect that his constituents frequently applied to him for copies of the evidence on which reports of committees were founded, and that during the Parliamentary recess the papers teemed with voluminous extracts from those reports? There was no ground for the hon. Member's change of opinion on the score of publishing. Then it was said that the people of the country did not go along with the House in those proceedings. That he must take leave to deny. He represented a much larger constituency than his hon. Friend, and from any one of them he had heard nothing against the course which the House was taking, and if he had, he would have said to the party making the objection, that if the right which the House claimed were not asserted and affirmed, they could not come to him for copies of those reports; or if they did, and that he gave them, he would then be the publisher of anything libellous which they might contain. If the power were taken from the House, the public must do without those useful documents. His hon. Friends who had moved and seconded the amendment seemed not to agree in the view they took of this matter. One thought it was all important to the welfare of the country, but the other said nothing on the subject. His hon. Friend objected not so much to the privilege as to the mode of asserting it. Of those who might concur in that objection, let him ask what was the course which they
361360Dr. Lushington
369primâ facie368367"The same reason also applies to the proceedings of Parliament. It is an advantage to the public and even to the legislative body itself, that a true account of their proceedings should be generally circulated; and they would be deprived of that advantage if no person could publish their proceedings without being punished for it. Therefore, although the defendant was not authorised by the House of Commons, yet as he only published a true copy of their report, he was of opinion that the rule should be discharged.""This is a motion for leave to file a criminal information on account of a libel, but that libel is contained in a publication of one of the branches of the Legislature whilst they are acting for the safety of the State. I have looked for authorities on this point, and I can find no one resembling this except the case of 'The King and Sir W. Williams.' That was most like this case, but it was declared by the highest legal authorities to be disgraceful to the country."sub judice.366"That the inquiry was made by the House of Commons: it was an inquisition taken by one branch of the Legislature to enable them to proceed further in passing regulations for the better government of this country. This report was first made by a committee of the
sub judice.366v.l.l.,365364363362 said, that he should defend the course taken by the hon. Member for Westminster, though he could not defend the speech which the House had just heard from him. He seconded the present amendment in perfect conformity with every principle that he had avowed in the earlier part of the proceedings in which the House were engaged. The motion asserted this principle, that the privileges of Parliament were intended for the advantage of the community at large. If so, did it not become a sacred duty which they were bound under all circumstances to discharge, not to permit those privileges to be infringed? If they existed not for the benefit or profit of individual Members, nor for that of the House of Commons collectively, but for the advantage of the community at large, ought they, acting as trustees for that community, to permit those privileges to be lightly violated? If some of his constituents told him that the House of Commons were
369primâ facie368367"The same reason also applies to the proceedings of Parliament. It is an advantage to the public and even to the legislative body itself, that a true account of their proceedings should be generally circulated; and they would be deprived of that advantage if no person could publish their proceedings without being punished for it. Therefore, although the defendant was not authorised by the House of Commons, yet as he only published a true copy of their report, he was of opinion that the rule should be discharged.""This is a motion for leave to file a criminal information on account of a libel, but that libel is contained in a publication of one of the branches of the Legislature whilst they are acting for the safety of the State. I have looked for authorities on this point, and I can find no one resembling this except the case of 'The King and Sir W. Williams.' That was most like this case, but it was declared by the highest legal authorities to be disgraceful to the country."sub judice.366"That the inquiry was made by the House of Commons: it was an inquisition taken by one branch of the Legislature to enable them to proceed further in passing regulations for the better government of this country. This report was first made by a committee of the
sub judice.366v.l.l.,365364363362Sir R. Peel
371370 said, that his hon. Colleague, in introducing his motion, had asked what that House had been investigating since the commencement of the Session. He (Mr. Wakley) should like to ask the hon. Member if, after the speech they had just heard from the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, whether he would think it necessary to repeat his question? In point of fact, the House of Commons had never met for the discussion of a more important question; nor, in his opinion, had a question ever been discussed with more patience or forbearance. His hon. Colleague had submitted a motion to the House, which had been dissected by the right hon. Baronet
371370Mr. Wakley
 wished to explain what the observation was with which he had interrupted his right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth. He (Mr. Shaw) had merely wished to call his right hon. Friend's attention to the fact, that a civil action could not be maintained in a court of quarter sessions. With regard to the question before the House, he would recommend the hon. Member for Finsbury to withdraw his amendment, which would merely confuse that which would be a very simple question, although it had been much lost sight of in some of the speeches which had been addressed to the House. The principle of the hon. Member's amendment was one deserving of the serious attention of the House, but it would be much more advisable to reserve it for separate and distinct consideration on some other opportunity. He would say one word as to the particular question before the House. Was it not an act of cruelty to send to gaol a boy of eighteen or nineteen years of age because he had obeyed his father's orders? It appeared that this young man was conducting his father's business during his confinement, and that no other member of the family was competent to do so. Upon the same principle that he (Mr. Shaw) had formerly advanced, when he urged the House to deal with principals, and not with those who were merely the instruments to carry into effect the orders of others, he now asked the House to be satisfied with the imprisonment of the father, and not to punish the son, who merely acted by his father's directions. As far as he (Mr. Shaw) had an opportunity of observing the state of public opinion, he agreed that it was opposed to the proceedings of the House, and it would be still more strongly against the House if it adopted the course now proposed.Mr. Shaw
372 thought that the House would act correctly in committing the younger Mr. Howard. The hon. Member for Dublin University contended that the son should not be punished for obeying the commands of his father. He
372Mr. Pryme
 thought that the younger Howard could not be committed on the testimony he had given. He would read to the House the resolutions of last night, to show that the young man had nothing to do with the action to which those resolutions referred. The right hon. Gentleman, having read the resolutions, said that he thought that the young man had completely cleared himself of any participation in the fifth action—the action for which he had been cited to the bar. For this reason he thought it would be an act of injustice to punish him.Sir E. Sugden
373 had not expected that the general question of privilege was to be re-argued on the present occasion, nor had he supposed that it would have been considered necessary to defend the proceedings of the House upon the special circumstances of the particular case, or upon the dire necessity which was imposed upon the House of informing the public what books were read in Newgate. He had thought the House would have stood upon the broad question of its privilege, and not have condescended to go into the facts connected with the particular publication out of which those proceedings had arisen. If Mr. Stockdale had published an obscene book, let him be punished in due course of law; it was not necessary for the House of Commons to take upon itself the duty of holding him up to public reprobation: the House might give the public all the information which was requisite without descending to those minutiæ which would give any individual a right to complain that he had been unnecessarily libelled. The House might no doubt stop the whole course of justice, but unless it did so it would never be able to stop any particular action. Fresh proceedings would continually be taken, and then the House might go on committing another man or woman—for the proceedings might be carried on as well by Mr. Howard's wife as by his
373Mr. Freshfield
No. rose to satisfy the House on the point suggested by his right hon. Friend the Member for Ripon. If he understood the objection of his right hon. Friend, it was, that young Mr. Howard had been summoned before the House with respect to the fifth action, and they were about to punish him with respect to the fourth action. But the question before the House was, had a breach of privilege been committed or not? When Mr. Howard had been before the House the other day, he said he had served two notices, one by Mr. Pearce, the other by Mr. Howard, jun. The House had summoned these persons before them, and Pearce did not appear, but Howard, jun., appeared, and said he had done the act—that he had served the notice of the fourth action. [No.Mr. Goulburn
 cared not for what Mr. Howard had been summoned. Suppose a Member rose in his place and complained of a distinct breach of privilege, and the party was called to the bar; if it appeared that he had been guilty of any other breach of privilege, he might be committed for the contempt. He should not, therefore, go into the question further than to say that Mr. Howard had admitted that he had been guilty of a breach of privilege.Mr. Williams Wynn
Cries of "DivideA laugh.374 called the attention of the House to the evidence of Mr. Hansard, who said, that the writ was served by a person who represented himself to be named Pearce, and a clerk of Mr. Howard. The charge against young Howard was, that he had been instrumental in serving the writ, whereas it appeared from the evidence of Mr. Hansard that it was not the person summoned to the bar, but Mr. Pearce, who served it. They had found it impossible to restrain these actions by the commitment of the father, and the House was now proceeding with so much severity against his son and clerk, a young man nineteen years of age, because he was instrumental in serving the writ of inquiry,
Cries of "DivideA laugh.374Mr. Law
 said, the person at the bar had been asked if he had taken any proceedings in the third action; the answer was, "The fourth action—yes, I have done a great deal." He was then asked, "The action on account of which your father is in confinement?"—Answer, "Yes." Under these circumstances, this young man, knowing that his father was in confinement for a breach of the privileges of the House, had aided in carrying on the action, and had, therefore, been guilty of a contempt of the privileges of the House.Mr. Sanford
 said, it did not clearly appear what the young man had done in furtherance of the action commenced by his father. He would call the attention of the noble Lord to the fact, and suggested that it should be more definitely stated what the breach of privilege was.Sir E. Knatchbull
375Which said—It seems to me that all those several actions are part of one and the same proceeding; and, with regard to one of them, it was resolved yesterday, that being any way concerned in bringing (or aiding in bringing) that action, is a gross breach of the privileges of this House. ["375WhichLord J. Russell
 again insisted, that there was nothing before the House to show that this young man had committed any act in breach of the privileges of the House. For all that the House knew, he might merely have copied papers in his father's office.Sir E. Sugden
 thought it was very painful for the House to be under the necessity of committing any individual, and very desirable, if possible, to escape from that necessity. There was only one way in which they could escape, by the individual expressing his contrition, and undertaking not to offend again. He therefore should move, as an amendment, that he be called in to the bar of the House, and that the resolution be read to him; and that it be put to him whether he wished to make any statement to the House.Mr. O'Connell
376: Before the hon. and learned Gentleman actually move any amendment, I would call his attention to the fact, that this House has already voted that this person is guilty of a great contempt, and I fear there would be considerable difficulty in adopting the course of calling him to the bar. We cannot forget that with regard to another person we had what seemed to us to be an expression of contrition, and an assurance that the offence would not be repeated, and the very next day we saw a letter in the papers of a totally opposite tendency. It appears to me that, for a person really desirous of conforming to the privileges of
376Lord J. Russell
 objected to calling young Mr. Howard to the bar now to make any verbal declaration. It was offering a temptation contrary to good policy and morality.Mr. Shaw
 agreed with his learned Friend the Member for Ripon, in calling on the learned Attorney-general to declare explicitly for what act the young man was to be committed. From the evidence he could not understand what it was. From the evidence it certainly did not distinctly appear.Mr. Kelly
: Have you any other employment but that of Mr. Howard?Mr. Law
: No.Mr. Pearce
379: And you consider that you
379Mr. Law
: Yes, at a moment's notice, if I refused.Mr. Pearce
: Have you a family?Mr. Law
: I have a wife and son, and I have no other means to support them except my labour. Besides, I have been a military man all my life, and I have learned never to break the law, or disobey my orders.Mr. Pearce
: And your family have no means of support if you are imprisoned on this charge?Mr. Law
: No. Imprisonment would be my ruin, and theirs also. I beg to tell the House, that my wife is allied to some of the oldest nobility, some of the first nobility in this country—I may say the first and oldest in this country—a family the patent of whose nobility is as early as 1616. She is the daughter of the hon. Philip Roper, and is first cousin to Lord Teynham. And as she is an outcast from her family for marrying a soldier, she would be totally destitute if she had not me to provide a subsistence for her.Mr. Pearce
 having withdrawn,Mr. Pearce
 said, that he had this satisfaction at last, that the House could now go no lower. The House could not be engaged in a more painful task than it was at present. Mr. Pearce had been only two years in an attorney's office, and he had done nothing in the case but the business of a common clerk. The House was, therefore, at issue with the humblest class in the country. Could it go lower? Believing that the motion was an unjust and impolitic one, he should give it his decided negative.Sir E. Sugden
381NoNo380 would ask the House with
381NoNo380Viscount Mahon
383382: the noble Lord was greatly mistaken in supposing, that it was the mere publication of their papers in a shop which rendered them liable to actions. Let him take an instance from what occurred that very day. His right hon. Friend, the Member for Pembroke, had asked him a question with reference to the transfer of the Hill Coolies to the Mauritius. Those papers relating to this subject he was going to lay on the table, and when he proposed to introduce into them matters which related to the treatment and general condition of the Hill Coolies, as well as to the conduct of their masters and employers, of the captains and agents who had brought them from India, he was asked, whether the extracts should be partially made, or should contain everything which bore upon the question. His answer was, that there should be made a full and complete statement with respect to those persons; and, if he had not done so, he did not think he should be giving that House fair grounds for their legislation. Did he say these papers did not criminate individuals? Far from it. They might revoke, if they
383382Lord John Russell
384 thought the noble Lord was mistaken as to the opinion of the judges. Judge Patteson had said, that
384Mr. Ingham
 said his constituents supported him in the view he took of this case, namely, that the majority were right.Mr. Andrew White
 trusted, the imprisonment of the party would be but short; but at the same time the effect of it would be to let the attorney know, that he could no longer use this man as an instrument in his proceedings, nor could he conceive, that there would be any reason for the discharge of Pearce from his employment merely because he was incapacitated from fulfilling the orders of his master by his imprisonment in that House. Mr. Howard might release him from the particular duty, and then Pearce could present a petition, couched in respectful terms, to induce the House to take his case into consideration. The hon. and learned Gentleman moved, "That Thomas George Johnson Pearce, having been guilty of contempt, be committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms."The Solicitor-General
Interruption.385 said, that he must take the same course in this question as he had done in the previous one. He would certainly divide the House on it, and whenever there was a motion for a similar commitment of innocent individuals he would resort to the same course of opposition. The Solicitor-general plainly told them he would wish the attorney's clerk to make an admission of his error, and ask for mercy. Of course, being a poor man, and left without subsistence, he would be happy to make it to rejoin his family; but what value would it be to them? The consequence would be that attorneys
Interruption.385Sir E. Sugden
 agreed with the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that the people should have control over the money they were called upon to give by this bill.Mr. Langdale
 asked, would towns in which a local police was at present established be subject to a double rate by this bill?Mr. C. F. Berkeley
 said, certainly no town so situated should be doubly rated.Mr. F. Maule
 hoped the hon. Member would not bring on so important a motion at that hour. It would be injustice to the hon. Member himself, to Gentlemen who had to reply to him, and to the prisoners themselves, to go on with the discussion at that time of the night.Mr. Fox Maule
389388 said, that he rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend an act passed last Session called the County Constabulary Act. The object of the bill which he proposed to introduce was not to alter any of the principles laid down in the act of last Session; but it had been found, that difficulties had arisen from the mode of payment provided for carrying into effect the regulations of the act, by levying it out of the county rates; a difficulty as to that provision had arisen in various counties, in which certain districts only had adopted the act. In counties, also, in which there were isolated portions of other counties, it was difficult to say how those isolated portions were to be dealt with, because they were incorporated in the police districts of another county than that in which they were rated for the payment of their proportion to the general county rate. Now, he proposed to alter the system of payment for the county constabulary by enabling the justices to assess for each district. Many of the difficulties would in that way be got over; if the justices assessed to the police rate only those districts which adopted the act, they might be collected with the county rates, and no difficulty would arise; because, with respect to isolated portions of other counties which had adopted the act, the justices would be empowered in the bill which he proposed to introduce either to assess those portions of other counties to the rates which they might think fit to lay on, or to apply to the treasurer of the other counties to pay that proportion of the rate which the isolated parts of those counties would fairly bear. Another difficulty was, that some uncertainty existed as to the operation of the act of last Session to boroughs under the Municipal Act,
389388Mr. F. Maule
391 rejoiced that at this early period of the Session this bill had been introduced, and he gave his assent to all the amendments in the bill of last Session proposed by the hon. Gentleman. Many clauses in that act were so monstrous, that he never could have consented to their introduction into any county with which he was connected. He hoped that many new provisions would be introduced into the act, if the Government found that there was a general feeling everywhere in favour of a cheap constabulary force. He could hardly conceive that her Majesty's Government could oppose such a proposition. He knew that there were many counties which would
391Lord Granville Somerset
392 said, some measure of this kind was absolutely necessary. In the altered state of the country, the present rural system of constabulary was of no more effect than the old "Charlies" were in the towns. He would further observe, that the maintenance of an active police in the towns had a great influence on the preservation of property and peace in the country. He wished the administration of the police were left in the hands
392Mr. Gally Knight
 rose to move, that an humble Address be presented to the Queen, praying her Majesty to be pleased, under the special circumstances of the case, to grant a free pardon to Frost, Williams, and Jones. The hon. Member presented petitions from Stroud, with 1,300 signatures, from a place in Suffolk, from Stonehouse, Lewes, Hamilton, and Glasgow, to that effect.Mr. Leader
 said, it was only twelve o'clock, and two hours might be enough. He would ask the hon. Gentleman, would he pledge himself that the prisoners should remain at Portsmouth until this discussion should be had? If so, he was ready to give way, and put off his motion till Thursdy.Mr. Leader
 said, it would be most unfair on the part of the Government, should the prisoners be transported before this motion was disposed of. He would at the suggestion of his hon. Friend, postpone the motion to Thursday.Mr. Leader
: although he should second the motion of the hon. Member, would advise him not to press it at that hour. He thought he had better put it off until Thursday, and then take his chance of bringing it on.Mr. Hume
 said, that the hon. Baronet had expressed a hope that this measure would be carried through with the concurrence of the ratepayers; but how could he hope for that concurrence? If the ratepayers had the election of a board for the government and control of their police, there might be some reason for expecting it, but how could they expect them to pay so large a sum in money to a body of irresponsible magistrates? Approving as he did of the establishment of a police, not where this one or that one desired it, but throughout the country, he entered his protest against this measure. This bill ought not to be carried out unless the ratepayers had the power of choosing those who were to assess the rate. When the bill went into Committee he should propose some clauses altering the principle of the bill.Mr. Hume
 was glad that the hon. Gentleman had drawn up a bill on this subject; but, as he had declared his intention not to alter the principle of the bill of last Session, he entirely despaired of obtaining any material improvement of that measure. He begged to give notice of his intention at an early day to move for leave to introduce a bill for the purpose, not only of improving the present constabulary force, but generally for the purpose of providing efficient means of affording protection to property, and security to the inhabitants of the country.Mr. Hodges
390 did not intend to offer any opposition to the motion of the hon. Gentleman, but, on the contrary, was glad that he had introduced this measure. He was glad also that he had taken a different course from that which he had pursued last Session, and had introduced it at a time when it could be carefully considered. As to the points to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, there would not be much difference between them. He was glad that the hon. Gentleman proposed to modify the provisions of the bill of last Session as to the expense. He approved also of an alteration of the bill with regard to its operation in the suburban districts, where it had certainly produced a great degree of confusion. He was not aware that it had been adopted to the extent stated. He could understand that the principle had been agreed to; but he could not understand how so expensive an alteration could have been so extensively adopted. There were certain constitutional objections to the bill, which would be more properly discussed at the second reading, and he merely now reserved his right to oppose it upon these grounds. He knew that the expense had caused great dissatisfaction. It was larger than the hon. Gentleman contemplated; and he hoped that, in this respect, the hon. Gentleman would introduce clauses to give the bill a different course of operation. If any counties chose to incur the heavy expense, and did it with the consent of those who paid the rates, of course he could have no objection to the adoption of the measure in those counties; but if it were found that in other counties the magistrates could establish an efficient police with one-third of the expense, he hoped that there would be no objection to the introduction of some provision enabling them to establish a police of that character. The hon. Gentleman said, that no persons should be employed as constables who could not devote the whole of their time to the performance of the duties of that office. Now, where the population was large, he could understand that that might be necessary; but that did not apply to the rural districts. He thought that an
390Sir E. Knatchbull
l. said, he had a question to put to the noble Lord opposite, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. He thought that it was in July last that official accounts reached this country that British property, of very large amount, upwards of 2,000,000l.Sir J. Graham
 begged to ask another question of the noble Lord, which arose out of another paragraph in the Queen's speech, relative to our existing relations with the Schah of Persia. It was stated in her Majesty's speech that communications which had been received from the court of Teheran induced her Majesty to expect the re-establishment of our diplomatic relations with the Schah of Persia. The question he had to ask was, whether any information had been received by the noble Lord realizing the expectations so held out, and whether there was an immediate prospect of any arrangement? There was another question which he had to put to the noble Lord, respecting the position in which we stood with regard to the Schah of Herat. He wished to ask whether the Sovereign of Herat, Kamram Schah, had seceded from our alliance, and whether he was not in intimate connexion with the Court of Teheran?Sir J. Graham
 said, it was clear the bill should undergo considerable discussion in its future stages, and therefore he would not occupy the House with any lengthened observations upon it. But with respect to the additional expense, he was certain that no objection could be made to it, when security of person and property would be the exchange. In the county which he had the honour to represent, there was not found the slightest objection to the police by the rate-payers. There had been in that county a saving of between thirty and forty thousand pounds a year by the new Poor Law Act, and there could be no objection to an expenditure of two or three thousand pounds a year to ensure security. He would put it to the right hon. Gentleman whether some part of the expense should not be paid out of the consolidated fund?Mr. Pakington
346, in reply, said, that some time ago information had been received from the British Minister formerly at the Court of the Schah of Persia, stating that the Schah had consented to all the demands of the British Government. Subsequently to that period, however, he had received a communication from the Minister of the Schah, comprising the details of the contemplated arrangements. It appeared, however, on examination, that the mode in which the Persian government had proposed to execute its general intentions, and to give satisfaction to the British Government, was not on certain points the same as the manner in which it had been proposed by her Majesty's Government that satisfaction should be given. That made it necessary for him to make another communication to the Minister of the Schah, and of course that communication had not yet been answered; but as the Schah had declared his intention of acceding without qualification to the demands of the British Government, he had no doubt that the answer that would be received would be satisfactory. In the mean time the British agent remained at Erzerum, with orders not to return to the Court of Persia
346Viscount Palmerston
345 said, that the right hon. Baronet was aware that papers had already been moved for, and ordered by the House, which were now in the course of preparation. He had made it his business, seeing that the right hon. Baronet had given notice of his intention to put the question which he had now asked, to go down to the office and ascertain when
345Viscount Palmerston
 said, that it appared to him that the course pursued by the hon. Member with respect to this bill was liable to a preliminary objection. On the 9th of April, 1772, a standing order was established by the House, declaring that no bill relating to trade, or the alteration of any law affecting trade, should be proceeded with until it had first been considered in a committee of the whole House. The question then was, did the present bill relate to trade? It might be said, that this objection was not taken in time, as the bill had been brought in; but he could refer to the Irish Church Bill, where the same objection was taken after the bill was brought in, and the bill was withdrawn because there was also a standing order that all bills relating to religion must be considered in committee of the whole House. A new bill was afterwards brought in, and proceeded with according to the standing order. The reason of these standing orders was, that such bills went to affect great bodies of the people, and every opportunity should be afforded to discuss them, which could only be in committee, where Members could speak as often as they pleased. Now, the present bill undoubtedly affected a great body of the trading interest of the country. There were 50,000 beersellers in England, with their families depending upon this trade. He would not now go into the merits of the Bill, but would move as an amendment, "that the present bill be withdrawn, as it proposes to alter a law relating to trade, and had not been considered in a committee of the whole House, as required by the standing order of the 9th of April, 1772."Mr. Warburton
ll398 rose to second the amendment, as he was anxious to support the Standing orders. He thought it would be
ll398Mr. Hume
399 begged to state, before the Speaker gave an opinion, that he was at least as sincere as the hon. Member for Kilkenny in a desire that the orders of the House should be maintained, and he by no means undervalued the importance of the present question or the interests at stake, and he thought that if a strict rule could be applied, the magnitude of the subject warranted its application. But the question was, did the rule strictly apply. He wished to call to the Speaker's recollection that within the last eight years the House bad twice legislated on this very subject; and he had before him
399Sir J. Graham
 said, that as this was a measure affecting the public revenue by the imposition of duties for licences, it was necessary, that it should, in the first place, receive the sanction of a Committee of the whole House. The Irish Church Temporalities Bill, in 1833, was a case in point. That bill had been read a first time, when it was objected that it ought to have originated in a Committee of the whole House, and a Select Committee having been appointed to search for precedents, that Committee of which Lord Althorp was chairman, reported that any measure imposing a burthen or charge on any class of people must first be discussed in a Committee of the whole House, on which the bill was withdrawn, and another bill was introduced on the resolution of a Committee of the whole House.Mr. Baines
 rose amidst cries of "Chair, chair." He said that the hon. Member for Leeds had not rightly stated the case as respected the Church Temporalities Bill. That bill had in the first instance been referred to a Select Committee up stairs, but after that, in consequence of its being regarded as a bill to tax the clergy, it was thought expedient to refer it to a Committee of the whole House. The consideration in that case was different from the objection made to the bill of the hon. Member for Droitwich.Mr. Goulburn
400 thought that in the case of any standing order of the House they should put a liberal construction on the words of it with respect to the introduction of a bill. The question then was, whether this bill came within the common
400The Speaker
 said, that after what had fallen from the Chair, he should not hesitate as to the course that he should pursue, but should at once withdraw the measure. He could not, however, help complaining of the want of courtesy on the part of the hon. Member for Bridport, in not having informed him of the want of regularity in the introduction of the bill. He never recollected such a want of courtesy before on the part of one Member of the House to another.Mr. Pakington
 was sure that the hon. Member must see how advisable it was for him not to pursue his present observations.The Speaker
 would at once bow to the chair, and would withdraw the bill, but at the same time gave notice that he would to-morrow move, that the House resolve itself into a Committee, to enable him to propose resolutions on which to found a bill similar to the present.Mr. Pakington
401 said, that he would
401Mr. Warburton
 put it to the House to say if there was anything to which they should look with greater jealousy than to bills affecting the interests of thousands and millions of individuals. He would contend that every bill which passed that House affected the property of some class or other in the empire. There was, however, a provision made by the standing rules that every person affected by a private bill should have the greatest protection, by notice, to guard him against surprise; it was, therefore, essential that the House should be particular in requiring a Committee before a bill involving paramount interests should be brought in. The bill before the House was one affecting trade and trading; and though there was not any particular precedent to apply, yet he hoped that the House would see the propriety of making the rule general, and that they would not withhold from the public the discussion in a Committee of the whole House on a question affecting the interests of the public at large. He would, therefore, support the amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Bridport.Mr. Hume
402 could not help being highly amused at the eagerness of the hon. Gentlemen opposite to throw impedi
402Sir James Graham
 said, that the Standing Orders of the House were intended to have a direct, and not an indirect, application. The bill before the House was not of the former character, and he thought that the Standing Order did not apply in the present instance.The Speaker
406405404403 would then move, that the bill be read that day six months, and he felt justified in applying to the present bill the same character which he applied to the bill brought in the last Session, and to the previous bill introduced by the hon. Member for Reading, who consulted the interests of authors and publishers, but who threw out of his consideration the interests of the public. In the arguments employed by the learned Sergeant and by others, a comparison had been drawn between the protection given to patent rights and copyrights. It was said, that the inventor of a mechanical invention did not
406405404403Mr. Warburton
414413"An amendment of the law of 1831, by a further extension of the term of copyright is much talked of in America.""right in preference to any other to the fruits of his labour. If labour and effort in producing what before was not possessed or known will give title, then the literary man has title perfect and absolute. We ought to present every reasonable inducement to influence men to consecrate their talents to the advantage of science.""Your committee believe that the just claims of authors require from our legislation a protection not less than what is proposed in the bill reported. Upon the first principles of proprietorship in property, an author has an exclusive and perpetual,"412"The Diet shall take into consideration at its first meeting some plan for uniform legislation on the liberty of the press, and also what steps are necessary to be taken to secure authors and publishers from invasion of their copyrights."Nuevissima Recopilacion,411410s409"Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest."lComus"She kept a petty grocer's or chandler's shop near Shoreditch. In 1750, lComusLife of Millon:"Into the heaven of heavens he has presumed An earthly guest, and drawn empyrean air."408res angusta domi,"That your petitioner has for upwards of thirty years exercised the profession of publisher and bookseller in this city, which profession had previously been carried on by his grandfather and father in the said city of Glasgow. That your petitioner has obtained estate and competence by the sale of books, published or sold by him, which property he has a right to entail or give in legacy for the benefit of his heirs, while the authors who produced the works which have enriched him, have no interest for their heirs by the present law of copyright in the property which they have solely constituted. That your petitioner is decidedly of opinion, that the cultivation of the national literature would be cherished and strengthened by the proposed extension of the term of copyright. Your petitioner therefore humbly prays that the bill to amend the law of copyright now before your hon. House, may pass into a law."407 said, that he did not understand how the hon. Member for Bridport could conceive that the present state of the House was fairly to be imputed as an objection, either to the promoters of the Bill, or to the Bill itself. They had found it necessary to choose a Wednesday for the discussion of the measure, as Mondays and Fridays were occupied by Government, and Tuesdays and Thursdays by motions of other Members. Unless, therefore, the hon. Member for Bridport wished the House to sit on Saturdays and Sundays, or unless he could devise an eighth day in the week, he (Lord Mahon) did not see how the promoters of the Bill could have followed a different course from that which they had taken. He would pass, however, to the discussion of the question. The hon. Member for Bridport had said more than once, that the Bill was only an author's Bill. and he believed the hon. Member had added, that it had been devised without any reference to the public interest. Now, he could not allow that insinuation to pass without reply. For his own part, he was not ashamed of the interest which he took in the measure. He found himself born to an inheritance of wealth, and he found at the same time with pain, that others, who were far superior to him in merit, industry, and reputation, were far below him in the accidental gifts of fortune—he found men, who were an honour to their country, subject to wants and privations which such merit ought never to have known. The object then of the Bill was this, to give these eminent men full scope for their talents, and to enable them, by their own exertion, to obtain that competency which he and others possessed, without any merit of their own. And was this a feeling of which they had cause to blush? Was this
414413"An amendment of the law of 1831, by a further extension of the term of copyright is much talked of in America.""right in preference to any other to the fruits of his labour. If labour and effort in producing what before was not possessed or known will give title, then the literary man has title perfect and absolute. We ought to present every reasonable inducement to influence men to consecrate their talents to the advantage of science.""Your committee believe that the just claims of authors require from our legislation a protection not less than what is proposed in the bill reported. Upon the first principles of proprietorship in property, an author has an exclusive and perpetual,"412"The Diet shall take into consideration at its first meeting some plan for uniform legislation on the liberty of the press, and also what steps are necessary to be taken to secure authors and publishers from invasion of their copyrights."Nuevissima Recopilacion,411410s409"Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest."lComus"She kept a petty grocer's or chandler's shop near Shoreditch. In 1750, lComusLife of Millon:"Into the heaven of heavens he has presumed An earthly guest, and drawn empyrean air."408res angusta domi,"That your petitioner has for upwards of thirty years exercised the profession of publisher and bookseller in this city, which profession had previously been carried on by his grandfather and father in the said city of Glasgow. That your petitioner has obtained estate and competence by the sale of books, published or sold by him, which property he has a right to entail or give in legacy for the benefit of his heirs, while the authors who produced the works which have enriched him, have no interest for their heirs by the present law of copyright in the property which they have solely constituted. That your petitioner is decidedly of opinion, that the cultivation of the national literature would be cherished and strengthened by the proposed extension of the term of copyright. Your petitioner therefore humbly prays that the bill to amend the law of copyright now before your hon. House, may pass into a law."407Viscount Mahon
415 concurred in the opinion, that a measure of this kind ought not to be discussed in so thin a House. But he did not think, that the hon. Member for Pleading was blameable on this account, for the present rules and regulations of the House scarcely admitted of any other course than the hon. and learned Member had taken. He thought it was unfair to suppose, that those who opposed the present bill were opposed to copyright altogether. So far as he was concerned, he considered copyright to be of great importance, and not merely of advantage to literary men, but likewise of great advantage to the public. The House, however, had not as yet sufficient information before it to enable the Members to legislate as it ought upon this important subject. Many facts required to be disclosed ere they would be placed in such a condition as would enable them in any bill they might agree upon to do justice between the reader and the author, between the bookseller and the public. He thought, that the hon. Member for Reading overlooked the interest of the public when he said, that the author had an indefeasible title to property in the books which he produced. He denied, that property was but the creature of law, and existed only so far as in its widest sense was considered to be for the good of the public. He denied, that there was any analogy between copyright and the ordinary existence of property. The hon. and learned Member had on a former occasion contended, that men were entitled to property in that which was the work of their own hands. Why, so they were; and that title was respected in every country where the author was paid the price of that property. But the learned Sergeant now sought to prevent the persons who purchased that property from copying that for which they had paid their money. He contended, that there was an analogy between patent rights and copyright, but in both cases the interest of the public was to be considered. The case of Sir Richard Arkwright had been referred to; but in the present state of the law his patent right only extended for fourteen years. At the end of that fourteen years Sir Richard Arkwright applied to Parliament for the extension of his patent for a further term of fourteen years, which
415Mr. Strutt
417 claimed a vote in favour of the motion of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Reading from the hon. Member for Derby, inasmuch as that hon. Member had just admitted that the state of the law of copyright was such as to require alteration. If that were so, let him vote for the second reading of this bill, the principle of which was that which he admitted, namely, that the existing law ought to be modified. In committee he might urge his own views of the fitting alteration. He grieved that so important a subject had not attracted more attention in the House; but as it was, he must discuss it in spite of the thin attendance, and must most earnestly entreat of the House to consent to the second reading of the bill. It might be said that in ninety-nine cases out of one hundred the bill would have no effect at all. If that were the case, and that the one hundredth case could be benefitted without injury to the others, it was a good reason for adopting the bill. It was said, that the high-test talents would be the most indifferent to a money-payment for their works; but that was no reason why booksellers should make a profit by those works, instead of letting it go, as by this bill it might go to the great author's children. Shakpeare, so far as could now be ascertained, had never received a single pound profit from his works; but if his family were alive, and possessed a fair share of copyright, they would be among the wealthiest in the land. If the Faëry Queen were, as Gibbon said, justly considered the brightest jewel in the coronet of the Marlboroughs, why should the descendants of those who gave immortality to English literature be excluded from all participation in the profits of their genius? It being now admitted that some alteration in the law of copyright was necessary, he was willing to take the alteration proposed by his hon. and learned Friend as a compromise between the interests and rights of the author and those of the public, not as an ignoble one, as had been stated by an hon. Member, but as one most likely to prove beneficial to all parties. It had been stated by the hon. Member for Bridport that this was merely an author's bill. In his opinion, judging from the arguments which he had heard, the opposers of the motion wished to substitute for it a reader's bill. He was not willing to make it either one or the other, but to make it fairly serve the interests of both.
417Sir R. H. Inglis
418>l>l. thought the hon. and learned Gentleman had, on every occasion on which this subject had been brought forward, failed to show any ground for altering the law of copyright. He conceived, that this of all subjects was one which should be legislated upon only after mature deliberation, and upon the evidence of facts. He therefore hoped, that the hon. and learned Gentleman would consent to have the bill read a second time now, upon the understanding that it should be referred to a select committee. Upon that condition he (Mr. Wakley) would not oppose the second reading. If the hon. and learned Gentleman would accede to this suggestion, he thought there could be no objection to the hon. and learned Gentleman himself naming half the Members of the select committee, the other half being chosen by the opponents to the bill. He trusted the hon. and learned Gentleman would at once see the fairness of this proposition, and acquiesce in it. The hon. and learned Gentleman was silent. He (Mr. Wakley) supposed he was to interpret that silence as a refusal. He doubted not the discretion of the hon. and learned Member, but he must say, that he doubted his fairness. It had been supposed, that this bill would benefit authors; but let the House look to what had been the result in former times of perpetual copyright. The copyright of "Milton's Paradise Lost" was bought for a sum, he believed, between 5418>l>l.Mr. Wakley
 hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would acquiesce in the suggestion of the hon. Member for Finsbury, and consent to refer his bill to a select committee. He (Mr. Ewart) thought, that, upon a question so materially affecting the public, the public interests alone should form the basis of legislation, and they should take care not to grant to any class of persons exclusive privileges to the detriment of the public generally. The hon. Gentleman referred to the very cheap rate at which the most valuable literary works were now sold to meet the daily increasing demand for books. This was not the time to introduce a measure, the effect of which must be to make publications dear. For his own part, he wished to make it a case for equitable consideration. At the end of the period of fourteen years let it be referred to the Privy Council to decide, whether any increase in the term should be made for the benefit of the descendants of an author; or whether, under peculiar circumstances, some compensation should not be made to the individuals interested. He could not consent to alter the existing law unless it were done on good and sufficient grounds. He would again recommend his hon. Friend to refer the whole matter to a select committee, when an opportunity would be given to examine the minutes of evidence of that committee, over which he had himself presided some years since.Mr. Ewart
420419 said, he should vote for the second reading of the bill of his hon. and learned Friend, but he should do so on the simple ground that, balanced as his own opinions were, and requiring information on the subject, as he feared the House did, he would rather the measure should undergo the fullest possible discussion. He held it to be wholly inconsistent with the enlightenment of the present age, that the labours of literary men should be those only which were not effectually protected by copyright. He should like
420419Mr. C. Buller
 wished to provide compensation for the labours of learned men, but he entertained strong doubts as to the bill in its present state being competent to accomplish that object. The noble Lord had thrown out one suggestion which he should be glad to find adopted. This was to give not only the authors a property in their productions, but to extend the benefit of the copyright to the author's relations for a period of sixty years. Under all circumstances, he should vote for the second reading of the bill.Mr. W. S. O'Brien
 was authorized to appear against the bill on behalf of the printers—a class of persons greatly affected by the bill—who had very material facts and evidence to lay before the House, provided they obtained an opportunity. He was satisfied that this bill would do no good. It sacrificed the publishers, and it compromised the interests of the public. The authors would not be benefitted to any considerable extent, for he felt assured that the bill would not ensure them one farthing more for the copyright of their works than otherwise they would have obtained. There was no evidence to justify the House in the course it was about to take, and he therefore entreated them to pause before they proceeded further with the measure. He was so impressed with the justice of the case of the printers, and he considered the objections they urged to be of such strength, that he should, though reluctantly, feel bound to offer every obstruction to the measure the forms of the House would permit, unless the hon. and learned Member consented to have a full and impartial inquiry up stairs. But if the measure were permitted to go up stairs, and a full and fair discussion occurred, and if a majority of the committee, fairly chosen, became of opinion that the bill ought to be proceeded with, then he, for one, should give that bill his support.Mr. J. Jervis
421 had listened with great attention to all that had passed during the discussion, and he was sorry to see so little attention paid to the public interests.
421Mr. Hume
423422 in reply, deprecated the introduction of party feeling into this measure, which ought to be entirely free from party. It was unjust to impute to those who supported the bill any thing like party feeling, when the names of Thomas Campbell, Leigh Hunt, Thomas Moore, Harriett Martineau, and other persons of literary eminence, were amongst the petitioners for the bill. He would tell the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and also the hon. Member for Finsbury, that he would not be deterred from giving an honest vote on any measure, because it happened to be supported by Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House. He had been taunted with bringing forward this measure before a thin House. Night after night, last Session, had he attempted to bring forward this measure, at great sacrifice of time to himself, and for fourteen or fifteen nights had been unable to do so till the time came when he was obliged to withdraw it, and it was therefore most unjust now to taunt him with bring-
423422Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
"I return the House of Commons my warmest thanks for the message which you have now delivered. I learn with lively satisfaction their approbation of the choice her Majesty has made, and it will be the study of my life to justify the favourable opinion which you have expressed." brought up the answer of Prince Albert to the Message of congratulation delivered to his Royal Highness yesterday from the House of Commons. The answer was as follows:—
"I return the House of Commons my warmest thanks for the message which you have now delivered. I learn with lively satisfaction their approbation of the choice her Majesty has made, and it will be the study of my life to justify the favourable opinion which you have expressed."Lord Seymour
 said, that it did not lay in the mouth of Portugal to deny the authority by which these men acted when she had availed herself to the utmost of their services, and had by means of them obtained a completely successful result. A more perfect case could not be than that which those individuals had against the Portuguese Government. They had placed upon the throne of Portugal one of our allies, who, but for their bravery and success, would be now an outcast in a foreign land. He did not object to the postponement of the motion for a short time, to see what course would be taken by the Portuguese Government, although he felt sure that the claims would never be satisfied until peremptory steps were taken to enforce them.Mr. O'Connell
 wished to say nothing against Admiral Fleming, but he believed him to be ineligible for the office he now held, and that he ought not to be appointed when there were so many officers above him, and below him too, who had fought and bled for their country, and acquired distinction by their gallant services, and who ought to have been considered before Admiral Fleming. On the part of the service to which he had the honour to belong, he entered his protest against that most unjustifiable appointment—an appointment which he was sure the country at large reprobated and condemned.Captain A' Court
459llllll l458ll457lll456llllllllllll455, in rising to move the navy estimates, begged the indulgence of the House in discharging a duty at all times difficult, but particularly so when undertaken for the first time, and under the necessity of asking for a considerable increase on the estimates of last year. The number of ships of all classes in commission on the 1st of January, 1839, was 224, and on the 1st of January, 1840, the number was 239, being an increase of 15 ships of all classes in commission. It was not necessary for him to refer to the circumstances which had rendered necessary that increase
459llllll l458ll457lll456llllllllllll455Mr. More O'Fenall
473472471470en-fluteNavy List.469 thought that the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down advocated the interests of France rather than those of England. The Secretary of the Admiralty, in introducing the navy estimates to the notice of the Committee, with great good taste, had abstained entirely from allusions of a party character, in which he thought the hon. Secretary was deserving of great praise. He had always felt, that on subjects connected with the navy the interests concerned were of such an important character, that the House ought to lose sight of all party considerations, and unite in doing what was, on the whole, the best for the interests of the country. However much, in the present state of the finances of the country, they must regret any increase of the expenditure, he could not but rejoice that the Government had come down and asked for an increase of men, and also for a large vote for increasing the building and general resources of the navy. He would not enter into the grievances and wants both of the officers and men of the navy; he trusted that those grievances had been fully considered in the naval and military commission, whose report they were waiting for most anxiously, to see what was done to relieve the pressure on many officers in both services. When the navy estimates had been brought forward last year, an argument had been thrown in the teeth of Members on that (the Conservative) side of the House, that they had endeavoured to show the weakness and inefficiency of the navy, as opposed to the navies of other countries. He was free to confess, that it was a disagreeable thing for this maritime country to have its weaknesses exposed; but he thought it much more essential that we should know our weakness, than go on in fancied security, and expose ourselves to danger when least expected. He was led to make these statements from a comparison of the navy lists of France and England, and also of Russia. The House would
473472471470en-fluteNavy List.469Lord Ingestrie
, in explanation, begged distinctly to discharge himself of having intended to say anything personal against Admiral Fleming. He spoke of him only in reference to his political appointment.Viscount Ingestrie
 wished to know whether it consisted with the knowledge of the hon. Member, that Lord Stormont bad received a writ of summons to the House of Lords?Mr. Pringle
 replied, that it did not consist with his knowledge, that Lord Stormont had received a writ of summons to the House of Lords, but it consisted with his knowledge, that he was now Viscount Stormont, in the kingdom of Scotland, and, according to the articles of Union, he could not sit for a Scotch county.Mr. F. Maule
436 recollected that a similar case had occurred since he had been in Parliament—the case of the present Earl of Scarborough. A writ was moved far on the death of his father, but no writ of summons had been issued, and the motion was withdrawn. This appeared to him to be a similar case. There was no
436Sir W. Follett
 was sorry to interfere with so high an authority as the hon. and learned Gentleman; but he apprehended Lord Stormont would not receive a writ of summons; he would take his seat in the House of Lords as a Scotch Peer without any summons, and he knew of no reason why so large a district as Perth should remain unrepresented.Mr. F. Maule
 said, the circumstances of this case were very clear. The Earl of Mansfield died on Tuesday last, and was yet unburied. A writ of summons had not yet issued, and Lord Stormont could not take his seat as a Peer of the British Parliament till he had received a writ of summons. That writ of summons could only issue on proof of his legitimacy, and the case stated by his hon. and learned Friend, the last case in which the question arose, that of the Earl of Scarborough, removed all doubt upon that ground. Unless, therefore, the hon. Member was prepared to state, on his own knowledge, that the writ of summons had issued, the time had not yet arrived for moving the new writ. With regard to his being a Peer of Scotland, he imagined that before he could Vote as a Peer of Scotland, he must be served heir to his father. There must be proof in relation to the British Peerage as well as the Scottish. Lord Stormont's father was yet unburied, and no such proof had been adduced. The hon. Gentleman was not in a condition to state, that a writ of summons had been issued, or that a service had been made upon the heir. Upon this ground, therefore, he submitted that it would be premature to issue the writ at present.Sir J. Graham
 said, it was perfectly clear, according to the law of Scotland, that Lord Stormont was now a Scotch Peer, no service being necessary. Upon the death of a father, the son instantly became a peer, and the present Lord Stormont was, therefore, a Scotch Peer in the room of his father, independently of any service or proof of legitimacy.The Lord-Advocate
437 said, the question could only he decided by proper evidence. Was the House to have that evidence or not? If the law of Scotland furnished no evi-
437Sir E. Sugden
 said, it appeared, from what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Pembroke, that the Earl of Mansfield was dead, and there was no doubt that Lord Stormont, the late Member for Perth, for so he must call him, was his eldest son and legititimate heir. But the House must consider the case as if the late Earl had only been Lord Stormont; they were to dismiss from their minds, that he was Earl of Mansfield also. Well, then, being only Viscount Stormont, there was no doubt that his eldest son and heir, now Viscount Stormont, being a Scotch Peer, was disqualified from sitting in the House of Commons. The seat, therefore, was vacant. There was no Member now for Perthshire.The Attorney-General
 said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had made an assumption first, and, then, upon that assumption, he proceeded to settle the whole case. There was no question about the son being heir to his father's title in this particular instance. If the principle laid down by the hon. and learned Gentleman were adopted, the House must be prepared to act upon it in every future case. The House had guarded against any error in the case of English peers by requiring that a writ of summons should be issued before any vacancy be declared. He thought, upon a case of this importance, where they were establishing a precedent to guide the House hereafter, it was inexpedient that they should come to a hasty decision. In all these cases it was desirable that precedents should be examined, and he should therefore move, that the debate be adjourned to Monday next.Mr. Goulburn
438 should certainly oppose that motion, and for this reason, that the House had the opinion of the Lord-Advocate most distinctly delivered upon a point of Scotch law. That opinion was, that, by the law of Scotland, Lord Stormont was now a Scotch peer, and, by the Act of Union, he could no longer be a Member of that House; if he should exercise his privilege, as Member for Perthshire, he would subject himself to a penalty. Under those considerations then, and feeling that it would not be fair that this great county should be without its voice in that House
438Mr. F. Maule
 would support the motion for an adjournment. The position of a Scotch peer in his opinion very much resembled that of an Irish peer sitting for an Irish constituency, and inheriting a title from his father. In that case, he was disqualified from silting, not in the House of Commons generally, but for any Irish constituency; and it was important to ascertain the course pursued on such a vacancy taking place—whether the Speaker issued his writ immediately, if the case occurred during the recess, or waited until some evidence had been laid before the House on its re-assembling. The House should remember then that they might establish now a precedent not only for Scotland but for Ireland. There was no representative for Perth yesterday or the day before, but it was not thought necessary, on the death of the late Earl of Mansfield being known, that a race should be run in order to move the writ. The proposal was not that they should suspend the writ indefinitely, but that the debate should be adjourned until Monday next, in order that they might consider what the precedents were. If the precedents were in its favour, let the writ be issued on Monday next, but before it was decided upon, was it not decent at least to have the opportunity of eight-and-forty hours' consideration before they established a precedent which was to govern them in future?Sir R. Peel
 said, the present case was not analogous to that of an Irish peer. The difference was, that an Irish peer was not prohibited from sitting in the House of Commons, because he might sit for an English constituency, whereas a Scotch peer could not sit in the House of Commons at all. He feared there was something more than a mere wish to prevent a precedent being established on the other side. It was utterly impossible that any precedent could be established different from that which had repeatedly been established before. It being admitted that the Earl of Mansfield was dead, and that his son was a Scotch peer, ha did say, that the House had a right to suppose there was something yet undisclosed, which induced hon. Members on the other side to come forward and prevent the writ being issued.Mr. R. Steuart
439 would inform the hon.
439Mr. Goulburn
 said, that on the death of Lord Farnham, Mr. Maxwell, who represented the county of Cavan, succeeded to the title, and although Lord Farnham had died during the recess, the vacancy was not declared, nor was a new writ issued, until the meeting of Parliament, because, as no writ of summons was issued to an Irish peer, the Speaker had no official information on the subject. Lord Farnham vacated the seat, but it remained vacant until the House was satisfied that he was a peer of Ireland.Mr. Shaw
 rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to the case mentioned by his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge. (The hon. Gentleman read from the journals an account of the proceedings of the House on the 10th of January, 1811, on the motion that a new writ be issued for Gloucestershire, in the room of Lord Dursley, who had succeeded to the title of Earl Berkeley.) The Speaker on that occasion had issued his writ; but it had turned out afterwards that the allegation on which he had proceeded in so doing was incorrect, and the other House of Parliament, had decided, that that gentleman was not Earl of Berkeley, and he had never sat there by that title. Now, as no hon. Gentleman could state it as a fact, from his own knowledge, that Viscount Stormont was now a Peer, it would be more consistent to consent to the adjournment.Sir R. H. Inglis
 asked if the hon. Gentleman meant to state to the House that there was any doubt as to the legitimacy of Lord Stormont?Mr. Hume
440 had cautiously abstained from making any reference to the
440Sir R. H. Inglis
 said, the points of that decision were known to every one, and therefore he was justified in asking the question. It was because the hon. Baronet had not stated what were the grounds of his own opposition to the motion, that he thought it was fit the House should know them.Mr. Hume
441 could assure those hon. Gentlemen opposite who attributed motives to those who sat on the Opposition benches, that he was totally ignorant of everything connected with the local politics of Perthshire. He was sure it was not necessary that he should make any allusion to the observation of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. It was preposterous to suppose, that they considered Lord Stormont would not be Earl of Mansfield of England, and Viscount Stormont of Scotland. His only object was, that the House should proceed according to precedent. The question was, whether the House ought not to proceed in the case in the usual ordinary and proper course, and there was no necessity at all to make it a personal question. It had been said that there was no doubt whatever that Lord Stormont in Scotland was Earl of Mansfield in England, but that was not the only consideration which the House should look to. In the case of the Earl of Scarborough the writ had been suspended till the usual forms were gone through. It was said that upon the death of a Scotch peer his son immediately became a peer. Such was the case with regard to the eldest son of an English peer. But it was not the practice to issue a writ until the House had some proof that he had become a peer; a mere statement or supposition was not considered sufficient to warrant the issuing of the writ. He would not pretend to dispute the law of Scotland, as laid down by the Lord-Advocate, but he still thought that the House should be guided on the matter by precedent, and that they should pursue the usual course on such occasions. The Lord-Advocate could not, he believed, show a precedent of a writ having been issued immediately on the death of a Scottish peer; and if he could not do that, surely the debate ought to be adjourned. Nobody, he believed, on the Opposition side of the House had the slightest motive in taking the line
441Sir W. Follett
 said, that hon. Gentlemen opposite had not denied that Lord Stormont was now a Scottish peer, and that if he took his seat in the House he would be liable to a penalty.Mr. F. Maule
 thought the House was justified in requiring something more than the mere assertion that Lord Stormont had succeeded to the title of his father. He believed that it was usual to serve the heir of a Scotch peer before he was considered duly possessed of the title, though there was no doubt of his legitimacy. At all events the writ ought to be delayed until the House was perfectly satisfied, as in all other cases.Mr. J. Jones
 did not think the House could be in possession of any more facts on a future day than they were at present. He understood that there was no doubt that Lord Stormont was Lord Stormont in Scotland at the present moment; and being so, he could not sit in that House. Why wait, then, till Monday? If hon. Gentlemen opposite wanted time to get a candidate for Perthshire, let them say so.Mr. O'Connell
442 said, it appeared to him that a new writ should be issued if the person served as heir to a deceased peer was not able to sit in the House. That course had been pursued very lately in the case of Lord Clive, who had become Earl of Powis. It was also adopted in other cases. The usual mode had been to make a statement, and upon which the House proceeded to issue the writ. The question now was, whether the House was satisfied with the statement of the hon. Member who had moved this writ. If any hon. Gentleman would say that he considered Lord Stormont had not become a peer, that he was not Viscount Stormont in Scotland, that he was not Earl of Mansfield in England, and therefore not unable to do his duty in that House, then he would admit that in issuing the writ they would go contrary to former precedents. But he had not heard any such statements made. He had not heard the slightest doubt expressed that Lord Stormont had become a Peer of Scotland. His hon. Friend near him (the Lord-Advocate), who was acquainted with the law and practice of Scotland, had said that there was no positive necessity that the heir should be served. There must be some
442Lord J. Russell
 said, there was no doubt of Lord Stormont's right to succeed to the titles of Earl of Mansfield in England, and Viscount Stormont in Scotland. The question was, whether some evidence should not be adduced in the House of the fact. There was no doubt of the fact in Scotland. But he denied that the heir of a deceased Peer could do any act without first proving his legitimacy. He could not touch any part of the estate, unless he had been served as heir; and upon the election of the sixteen Peers of Scotland, he must produce a certificate to show that he had been served as heir, besides the general knowledge of the fact. Under all the circumstances, it would be the most regular and consistent course to adjourn the debate.Sir W. Rae
 said, that when the eldest son of a Peer became entitled to a Peerage, it was not necessary for him to take any proceedings for the purpose of enabling him to exercise any of the rights or privileges of the Peerage. If the House were satisfied that a vacancy had taken place in the representation of Perthshire, a new writ ought immediately to issue.The Lord-Advocate
443 observed, that the House of Commons committed a great blunder in the year 1811, in the course which it adopted with reference to the new writ for Glocester, when they assumed that the Member by whom that place was represented had succeeded to a Peerage. From that time forward the House acted upon a stricter rule with respect to the issue of writs, for they required that some evidence should be laid before them of the existence of a vacancy, and no longer took the matter for granted upon the mere statement of the individual Member who moved for
443Sir G. Clerk
444 said, that when a Member of that House succeeded to a British Peerage, the House required evidence of the writ of summons. It might be desirable to have some such proof in the case of Scotch and Irish Peerages; but no hon. Gentleman on the other side had yet informed the House what the practice was. Did the House, or did it not, require formal evidence as to Members succeeding to Scotch or Irish Peerages? If that were the practice, he thought it hardly possible but that hon. Members on the other side must be aware of it; but neither the present Lord-Advocate nor the late Lord-advocate appeared to know any-
444Viscount Howick
445 said, that the reasons given by the noble Lord who spoke last were such as ought rather to induce him to vote for than against postponement. All that the opponents of the motion asked was, that the question should stand over till the next day the House met, in order to ascertain what the rule was with respect to Scotch and Irish Peerages. Every one was aware that the House, in the case of English Peerages, required technical proof that a vacancy had occurred. Now, with respect to the present case, they did not really know what the practice was, and they had not had time to discover. They did not know whether any proofs or preliminary proceedings were necessary or not in the case of a Scottish Peerage, and he must say that it was rather too much of the noble Lord opposite to require that they should have at their fingers' ends every case upon the subject, when not one on that side of the House had the least idea that such a question would be mooted. It could never have been supposed, that within three days of the death of Lord Mansfield, such a motion would be made in the House of Commons. It was a proceeding unheard of. The recency of the event might be some apology for those who asked for adjournment, not being prepared with precedents, but it was that very circumstance which rendered it so exceedingly inexpedient to adopt the motion. If the hon. Gentleman, the Under Secretary for the Home Department, had brought forward precedents, showing the practice to be such as justified the motion, then the hon. Gentleman should at once have his vote. If the precedents and practice were in favour of the motion, it would not be opposed; but, on the other hand, if the motion were forced forward in this manner, he and his friends would hold themselves justified in pressing the amendment. They were entitled to be made acquainted with the sound and solid grounds upon which they were to be called on to issue this writ, contrary to the practice as
445Lord Stanley
476475 said, he had hoped that the gallant Admiral would have given some sort of answer to what had been stated on that (the Opposition) side of the House, respecting what be must call one of the most flagrant abuses that had ever
476475Captain A'Court
454 thought that those
454Sir H. Hardinge
453 was not acquainted with all the circumstances connected with these claims, but he knew that some British subjects who had served in Portugal, had been driven by the injustice of the Portuguese Government to acts of mutiny, and had then been punished for those acts by being treated like galley slaves. It was quite notorious that British subjects had brought about the restoration of the present dynasty to the throne of Portugal, and that to their resolution and discipline the present Queen of Portugal owed her throne. Nevertheless, when those men put forth their just claims, they met with such treatment as drove them to acts of mutiny; and was it possible to conceive that the representative of the English Government at Lisbon could see these persons chained together, and forced to clear all kinds of filth from the streets, because they had pressed for a settlement of their just demands, without making representations on the subject to the Portuguese Government? He thought the noble Viscount, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, had fairly stated the case so far as regarded the interference of the British Government; but that the noble Viscount had not satisfactorily shown how it was that, for five years, those men had not been able to obtain a satisfaction of their claims. That appeared to be the pinching part of the question. He did not know all the facts of the case, but, in general, he disapproved of men enlisting for pay in the service of a foreign state, without the consent of their own Government, and he
453Sir H. Hardinge
 begged to put a question to the hon. Secretary for the Treasury. He wished to know whether any communications had passed between the Treasury and the applicants for compensation for opium destroyed in China since the date of the last communication, in which the hon. Secretary had informed them that it was not the intention of the Treasury to make any application to the House for a vote to meet their claims?Mr. Herries
 repeated his inquiry,—if there had been no intimation of opinion given to the parties since that time on the part of the Treasury?Mr. Herries
468467 did not understand why this country should maintain a war establishment in time of peace, because France and Russia chose to increase their navies. If such a principle were adopted, it would be impossible for this country ever to
468467Mr. Hume
 did not know in what way the British Government had sanctioned the services of these individuals to the Queen of Portugal: if any sanction had been given by the Government, the Government ought long ago to have required satisfaction from Portugal; but if these men had engaged themselves, without the knowledge or sanction of Government, they had no right to call upon Government for assistance in the prosecution of their claims.Mr. Hume
: The complement was only 3 per cent below that of 1815.Mr. O'Ferrall
 said, the complements of ships had been increased, but not according to one uniform per centage. Thus the Pique, which had formerly 275 men, now had 306; the Blonde, which had 275, now had 280; the Andromache, which had formerly 175, had at present 185. With respect to the vessels sent to China, it would be better not to enter upon that question at present. He could assure the hon Baronet, that the state of the ships in ordinary had not been neglected; that they were regularly surveyed, and a report made of the state of each ship, and their condition was most satisfactory: we could send out a fleet much larger than any other country, he might say almost as large as any two countries.Mr. O'Ferrall
 replied—No intimation whatever. All that had taken place was the mere fact that certain formal notices had been served at the Treasury by notaries public.Mr. R. Gordon
 said, there had been no written application from the parties, nor any communication to them from the Treasury, since the date of the note referred to by the right hon. Gentleman.Mr. R. Gordon
474 said that the noble Lord opposite had talked of the superiority of the French navy to ours. All he could say in answer to that was that, although many of our ships might be smaller, yet in point of numerical strength we had much the advantage. He admitted that the French had gained considerable expertness and experience in naval matters, and that their naval force was considerably increased, but he, nevertheless, contended that ours was more efficient. He was borne out in this opinion by that of Sir F. Maitland and Sir R. Stopford, both of whom considered, as appeared from their despatches (the gallant Admiral quoted)
474Sir C. Adam
506 said, the gallant Captain had put himself up as the champion of
506Sir E. Filmer
466465l464 said, that this was no criterion, because the size and scantling of the ships were different in 1815. It was the duty of the Admiralty to keep up the armaments to their full complement. They would see the great difficulty they would have to contend with when they increased the number of ships. When a ship was paid off, it was not difficult to get the men to enter a new ship; but if they wanted an additional 1,000 or 2,000 men from the merchant service, they would find extreme difficulty in getting them; so that every expedient should be resorted to for keeping men in our navy. One resource formerly was the coast blockade; but that was done away, and the coast guard substituted. It had been stated by the Secretary of the Admiralty, that the coast guard was not in so efficient a state as had been contemplated. He understood.
466465l464Sir G. Clerk
463462ll461lll460l said, it was not his purpose to object to the very distinct and intelligible manner in which the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty had gone through the various items of the estimates as compared with those of the last year. He had no objection whatever to offer to any part of the hon. Gentleman's statements. But, at the present moment, when the efficiency of the naval service had called forth so much attention in the country, he must say, he regretted that the hon. Gentleman had not gone more fully into the reasons which were considered to justify an increase of 1,000 men in this vote as compared with that of last year. Still he had not the slightest objection to that increase; on the contrary, having felt it his duty last year to object that the navy was not manned adequately, he should be guilty of inconsistency if he objected either to an increase of men, or of the stores placed at the disposal of the Admiralty, on this occasion. However, he thought the increase in the estimates was certainly very large, and he was sure that if the Admiralty applied due care and circumspection in the expenditure, he should feel no doubt about there being a proper amount of stores in the arsenals, nor any apprehension of the efficiency of the ships which would be fitted out. With such sums at their disposal he should feel that the Admiralty would incur a very heavy responsibility if we should suffer any injuries to be done to British property off our own coasts, or any insult to be offered to the British flag in any part of the world. These estimates, he repeated, were very great, and very much greater than the navy estimates of late years. Any person who heard that the House was voting 5,659,051463462ll461lll460lSir G. Clerk
 denied, that he had started up as the champion of Admiral Fleming. He rose to defend the navy generally, and to protest against the language that was used about the navy as well as Admiral Fleming, who had distinguished himself in various ways.Captain Pechell
 rose for the purpose of protesting against the language which had been used in that House and elsewhere with respect to the appointment of Admiral Fleming. He had seen Admiral Fleming in command more than thirty years. He was a good officer, and a most diligent cruiser. He considered that the gallant Admiral was quite able to conduct the duties of the office to which he had been appointed. Would they have an old man appointed, whose infirmities would prevent him from doing the duties of the office? Why did hon. Gentlemen cavil at the appointment of Admiral Fleming? No one found fault with that of Sir Thomas Hardy. When he heard it advanced, that good officers would not be got to serve in the navy if a war should break out, because they had no affection for Ministers, he could not but protest against such language. He did not believe, that the officers of the French navy would stand up and speak disrespectfully of their colleagues and superiors. He had not met with that dissatisfaction out of doors on this subject which was represented to be in existence, and he would add, that he did not believe the officers of the Royal Navy generally did concur in the observations which had been made in another place.Captain Pechell
494493492491"If ever there was a flagrant violation of national faith, it was that which had been committed by Portugal. It was not merely that they had turned a deaf ear to the interests of humanity—that Portugal had disregarded every appeal which had been made to her—that she had positively violated her compact with this country, for Portugal had received a pecuniary equivalent from England, about half a million sterling having been paid to her to relinquish her slaves—it was not merely that she had utterly disregarded the claims of humanity, and disregarded, too, the solemn compact into which she had entered with us; but although we had a pecuniary claim on Portugal, and had made her an advance beforehand, upon a specified condition, yet Portugal swindled us out of our money; and I ask of you, the Parliament of England, to pass a bill to prop up my defective influence, and force from Portugal that justice which she will not render to my remonstrance.""I admit (said the noble Lord in substance) all your allegations; but so small is my influence with that government which I established, that, although for five years I have been repeating my entreaties and remonstrances, they have not been attended to; and I am now about to form a committee in London, if possible, with the concurrence of Portugal, if not, without it, and whatever may be the report of that committee, I will exact those terms from that Government with which I have been so successful."490primâ facie489488487 said, that it was his intention to give his vote without the least hesitation or reluctance in favour of the full amount proposed for the navy estimates of the present year. He could not concur in the view which had been taken by the hon. Gentleman who was the great and consistent advocate of economy in that House, and by which he had proposed to maintain the establishments of this country without any reference in time of peace to the establishments of other countries. He conceived it to be quite impossible to disregard the efforts made by other countries to maintain a great naval establishment. A profound peace might prevail, but the gradual progressive increase of the naval power of a neighbouring country might be indicative of hostility to us. The very efforts made by a country without any apparent necessity to lay the foundation of a great maritime power, might when its exertions were completed, if our inferiority were satisfactorily estatlished, enable that country to choose a moment for the commencement of offensive operations. And in the
494493492491"If ever there was a flagrant violation of national faith, it was that which had been committed by Portugal. It was not merely that they had turned a deaf ear to the interests of humanity—that Portugal had disregarded every appeal which had been made to her—that she had positively violated her compact with this country, for Portugal had received a pecuniary equivalent from England, about half a million sterling having been paid to her to relinquish her slaves—it was not merely that she had utterly disregarded the claims of humanity, and disregarded, too, the solemn compact into which she had entered with us; but although we had a pecuniary claim on Portugal, and had made her an advance beforehand, upon a specified condition, yet Portugal swindled us out of our money; and I ask of you, the Parliament of England, to pass a bill to prop up my defective influence, and force from Portugal that justice which she will not render to my remonstrance.""I admit (said the noble Lord in substance) all your allegations; but so small is my influence with that government which I established, that, although for five years I have been repeating my entreaties and remonstrances, they have not been attended to; and I am now about to form a committee in London, if possible, with the concurrence of Portugal, if not, without it, and whatever may be the report of that committee, I will exact those terms from that Government with which I have been so successful."490primâ facie489488487Sir Robert Peel
504de jurede facto503 said, that there were two or three points in the speech of the noble Lord which he would very briefly notice. In the first place, he would advert to the subject of the general tenour of his own observations. They were made in answer to a boast by the noble Lord, that tinder his administration of the foreign policy of this country, the influence of England had a predominating weight. He had selected, therefore, one point which showed what was the extent of our influence with the three powers. He had also taken the case of Portugal, and referred to our negotiations on the subject of the slave trade with that power, by whom, upon the admission of the noble Lord himself, every engagement which she made with us had been violated, notwithstanding our advance of half a million to enable her to carry out the objects of those negotiations. He had noticed also the claims of the British subjects, which had that night been brought forward by his noble Friend, which claims, by the noble Lord's admission, had not been satisfactorily adjusted, and he did infer from these circumstances, that the policy of the noble Lord had not been so successful as he had represented it to be. The noble Lord had said, that Don Miguel would not have given this country more than the present Queen of Portugal. That was the whole amount of the difference. "It is true," said the noble Lord, "that I got nothing for you, but you would not have got more from Don Miguel." The noble Lord said, that the Members of former administrations would have been guilty of the enormity of recognizing Don Miguel. Why, supposing they had been guilty of such an enormity, they would only have done what Lord Althorp told them to do. That noble Lord, whom hon. Members opposite had, selected to become the leader of the party
504de jurede facto503Sir R. Peel
 said, he had asked a third question, which was, whether there was any prospect of these affairs being brought to a settlement at an early period.Sir R. Peel
448"The affairs of the Levant have continued to occupy my most anxious attention. The concord which has prevailed amongst the five Powers has prevented a renewal of hostilities in that quarter; and I hope that the same unanimity will bring these important and difficult matters to a final settlement in such a manner as to uphold the integrity and independence of the Ottoman empire, and to give additional security to the peace of Europe." said, that before the House went into Committee of Supply, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Foreign Department. The question had reference to the following paragraph in the speech of her Majesty at the opening of the present Session;—
448"The affairs of the Levant have continued to occupy my most anxious attention. The concord which has prevailed amongst the five Powers has prevented a renewal of hostilities in that quarter; and I hope that the same unanimity will bring these important and difficult matters to a final settlement in such a manner as to uphold the integrity and independence of the Ottoman empire, and to give additional security to the peace of Europe."Sir R. Peel
483"It is a most undoubted maxim, that the honour, security, and wealth of this kingdom does depend upon the protection and encouragement of trade, and the improving and right managing its naval strength. Other nations, who were formerly great and powerful at sea, have by negligence and mismanagement lost their trade, and have seen their maritime power entirely ruined; therefore, we do in the most earnest manner beseech your Majesty that the sea affairs may always be your first and most peculiar care.""That the naval fleet of the kingdom was increased nearly double what it was at his accession, and that the charge of maintaining it would be proportionably increased, as it is certainly necessary for the interest and reputation of England to have always a great strength at sea.""That having spent some time upon consideration of the fleet, both at home and abroad, and of the great increase of the naval force and strength of our neighbours, we conceive it to be our duly to your Majesty and the kingdom, humbly to represent that the honour and safety of this nation, under the Providence of God, chiefly depend upon your strength at sea; and whereas, by the long continuance of this war, the number of your ships must have been diminished, and those remaining greatly impaired, we think it of the highest importance to your Majesty's service, and the security and interest of your people, that you would be pleased to give speedy and effectual directions for the repairs and increase of your Royal Navy."482"The Protector was so sensible of the respect paid by foreign States to the naval power of England, when kept in a respectable condition, that instead of reducing his navy
482Hear, hear!481l480llll47947832,125Total
32,125Total20,498Add amount of estimate
20,498Add amount of estimate11,627
11,6273605 steamers
3605 steamers1,09818 brigs, and 3 small vessels
1,09818 brigs, and 3 small vessels2084 brigs, canonniers
2084 brigs, canonniers8703 brigs, 226; 7 brigs avisos, 644
8703 brigs, 226; 7 brigs avisos, 6441,2708 corvettes, less 3 corvettes avisos
1,2708 corvettes, less 3 corvettes avisos7,8219 sail of the line
7,8219 sail of the lineMen.
Men.
32,125Total
32,125Total20,498Add amount of estimate
20,498Add amount of estimate11,627
11,6273605 steamers
3605 steamers1,09818 brigs, and 3 small vessels
1,09818 brigs, and 3 small vessels2084 brigs, canonniers
2084 brigs, canonniers8703 brigs, 226; 7 brigs avisos, 644
8703 brigs, 226; 7 brigs avisos, 6441,2708 corvettes, less 3 corvettes avisos
1,2708 corvettes, less 3 corvettes avisos7,8219 sail of the line
7,8219 sail of the lineMen.
Men.477 said, the question of our naval establishment divided itself into two parts. The first of these was its comparative strength, when contrasted with the naval armaments of other nations; next, whether it was sufficient to promote the extension of our commerce, and to afford it protection when extended. With respect to the first part—namely, the comparison of foreign naval armaments with ours—it had been said, that the number of effective seamen and boys amounted to 35,565, and that another 1,000 had been added to increase the force of our vessels in commission. Both these statements he denied. We had not that number of men and boys, and even the trifling addition of 1,000 had not been made. It was only of late that the packet service had been handed over to the superintendence of the Admiralty, and this service was as distinct from the navy as was the military service. Indeed, it was even more distinct.
483"It is a most undoubted maxim, that the honour, security, and wealth of this kingdom does depend upon the protection and encouragement of trade, and the improving and right managing its naval strength. Other nations, who were formerly great and powerful at sea, have by negligence and mismanagement lost their trade, and have seen their maritime power entirely ruined; therefore, we do in the most earnest manner beseech your Majesty that the sea affairs may always be your first and most peculiar care.""That the naval fleet of the kingdom was increased nearly double what it was at his accession, and that the charge of maintaining it would be proportionably increased, as it is certainly necessary for the interest and reputation of England to have always a great strength at sea.""That having spent some time upon consideration of the fleet, both at home and abroad, and of the great increase of the naval force and strength of our neighbours, we conceive it to be our duly to your Majesty and the kingdom, humbly to represent that the honour and safety of this nation, under the Providence of God, chiefly depend upon your strength at sea; and whereas, by the long continuance of this war, the number of your ships must have been diminished, and those remaining greatly impaired, we think it of the highest importance to your Majesty's service, and the security and interest of your people, that you would be pleased to give speedy and effectual directions for the repairs and increase of your Royal Navy."482"The Protector was so sensible of the respect paid by foreign States to the naval power of England, when kept in a respectable condition, that instead of reducing his navy
482Hear, hear!481l480llll47947832,125Total
32,125Total20,498Add amount of estimate
20,498Add amount of estimate11,627
11,6273605 steamers
3605 steamers1,09818 brigs, and 3 small vessels
1,09818 brigs, and 3 small vessels2084 brigs, canonniers
2084 brigs, canonniers8703 brigs, 226; 7 brigs avisos, 644
8703 brigs, 226; 7 brigs avisos, 6441,2708 corvettes, less 3 corvettes avisos
1,2708 corvettes, less 3 corvettes avisos7,8219 sail of the line
7,8219 sail of the lineMen.
Men.
32,125Total
32,125Total20,498Add amount of estimate
20,498Add amount of estimate11,627
11,6273605 steamers
3605 steamers1,09818 brigs, and 3 small vessels
1,09818 brigs, and 3 small vessels2084 brigs, canonniers
2084 brigs, canonniers8703 brigs, 226; 7 brigs avisos, 644
8703 brigs, 226; 7 brigs avisos, 6441,2708 corvettes, less 3 corvettes avisos
1,2708 corvettes, less 3 corvettes avisos7,8219 sail of the line
7,8219 sail of the lineMen.
Men.477Sir T. Cochrane
486485484 was anxious to say a few words before the House came to a vote on this question, because objections had been made in the course of the debate to that part of the policy of the Government with which he was more immediately connected. On the subject itself which was now under discussion, it was unnecessary for him to say anything, for all parties bad concurred in the propriety of the vote which was proposed for their naval establishments. The hon. Baronet, the Member for Stamford, had given his testimony in favour of the judicious arrangements which were adopted with regard to stores. He had said, that the amount of stores were satisfactory, and that the number of men to be employed, and the way in which they were to be employed, was perfectly judicious. The hon. Baronet had said, that the amount of stores, and the number of men to be employed were sufficient, and he had only to appeal to the statements of the hon. and gallant Officer who had last spoken, to prove, that the Government had not proposed too large a vote upon the present occasion. The considerations which arose on the discuss on of a subject of this nature were twofold. In the first place it was to be considered, what the number of ships ought to be, and that ought to depend on a view of the foreign relations of the country, and of the state of the naval power of other countries. Another consideration was, how the naval force ought to be distributed, and that, again, must depend on circumstances of a fluctuating and temporary character. Now the opinions which they had that night heard expressed, were favourable to the course which had been adopted by the Government. The discussion showed, that the Government had taken effectual steps to place their naval establishments on an efficient footing. With the exception of
486485484Viscount Palmerston
452 was very much disposed to agree with the noble Lord who had just sat down in a great part of what that noble Lord had said with respect to the conduct of the Portuguese Government. Undoubtedly, the conduct of the successive administrations of Portugal towards men to whom the Queen of that country was deeply indebted, was entirely deserving of reprobation, but the noble Lord was mistaken in supposing that her Majesty's Government had been less urgent in their applications to the present than in those which they had addressed to the former administrations of Portugal for the purpose of procuring the concurrence of the Portuguese government in the appointment of a commission which should sit in London. It was true that when the present Portuguese ministry first came into office, and professed a sincere desire to do justice to the claims of British subjects, it did appear to her Majesty's Government to be fitting and becoming to give that ministry an opportunity of taking a short time to make the necessary arrangements to carry its good intentions into effect, but when it appeared that, whatever might be the inclination of the Government, results did not follow in as swift and satisfactory a manner as we were entitled to expect, the Government of this country addressed to the Portuguese minister the communication which had been mentioned by the noble Lord opposite. An answer to that communication was daily expected. The Portuguese government had been told that the Government of this country could not expect justice from any commission sitting in Lisbon, and that no arrangement could be satisfactory but the appointment of a commission which should sit in London, and the Portuguese government was also told by that communication, that if it would not concur in the appointment of such a commission, the British Government would do that which the noble Lord opposite proposed to effect by an address to her Majesty. The address for which the noble Lord had moved would, in fact, merely ask the Government to take that course which was intended to be taken. On these grounds, he requested
452Viscount Palmerston
502501500499498497496protegé495 had listened to the speech of the right hon. Member for Tamworth with a mixed sensation of pain and of pleasure—with pain to think that an individual standing in the right hon. Baronet's eminent position, and filling so ample a space in the eyes of Europe, should, in discussing the important interests of this country and the tendency of its foreign policy, have taken so narrow and so limited a view of it as to put the great issue, whether the foreign policy of the Government was wise or not on such petty matters as those which the right hon. Baronet had mentioned, totally forgetting all those great considerations, which ought to have presented themselves to his mind, and the absence of which was to him a source of pleasure, because he well knew that the right hon. Gentleman had too statesman-like a mind not to have adverted to them, if those considerations would hare served his purpose. He was therefore almost ashamed to follow the right hon. Gentleman, through the miserable paltry details on which he had rested the whole strength of his case. Out of deference, however, to the House, he would pursue the right hon. Gentleman through the different subjects which he had made the theme of his vituperations against the Go-
502501500499498497496protegé495Viscount Palmerston
 could not anticipate the period; he could only say that the subject occupied the most anxious attention of her Majesty's Government. They were in communication with the other four Powers on the subject, and he believed all were impressed with the great importance of bringing it to a final settlement at as early a period as was compatible with its complicated nature.Lord Palmerston
 said, with reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that the services of those individuals had not been sanctioned by the Government, but that that circumstance did not lessen the obligation of the Portuguese Government to satisfy their demands; and with regard to the statement made by the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir H. Hardinge), he begged leave to say, that it was a mistake to suppose that no representation had been made to the Portuguese Government by her Majesty's representative at Lisbon upon the subject to which the right hon. Baronet referred; representations had been made, and were considered to have been efficacious.Viscount Palmerston
 said, that, undoubtedly, the passage in her Majesty's Speech which had been just read by the right hon. Baronet expressed a hope that the five Powers would be as unanimous in a settlement of these affairs, founded on the basis of the integrity and independence of the Ottoman empire, as they had been unanimous in preserving peace in that quarter; and that hope was founded—1st, on the opinions entertained by her Majesty's Government; 2ndly, on the opinion expressed in the speech of his Majesty, the King of the French, at the opening of the session, in which the integrity and independence of the Ottoman empire were especially mentioned; and 3rdly, on the knowledge of her Majesty's Government as to the opinions entertained by the three other Powers on the subject. With regard to the second question of the right hon. Baronet, he could only say that these matters were now the subject of negotiation between the five Powers; and he was sure the right hon. Baronet was the last person who would wish him to enter into any premature declaration as to the position in which the parties to that negotiation might stand.Viscount Palmerston
451l450449, in pursuance of the Motion of which he had given notice, wished "to call the attention of the House to the petition of British subjects, claimants on the Government of Portugal," which was presented to the House a few days ago. The
451l450449Viscount Sandon
505 confessed his surprise that the noble Lord, after the utter inutility of his efforts had been exposed, should yet take credit to himself for the protection and encouragement which he had given to our commerce. The noble Lord ought not to look to the establishment of abstract principles in other countries, but to the substantial interests of his own. He professed, indeed, to be a follower of the principles of Mr. Canning, who said, that while he was a Minister of England, he would look like a Minister of England to the interests of England, and not to the foundation of abstract principles abroad. After the statement of facts which had been made, surely the noble Lord had no right to say, that the influence of England was predominant, or that his own policy had succeeded? Surely, when he said so, he had forgotten how France laughed to scorn our interference when her own aggrandizement was in question? Surely, he must have forgotten how long the interests of England had suffered from neglect in the Gulf of Mexico, and in the Rio de la Plata. Surely, he must have forgotten the establishment of new principles of blockade, which were denounced-by the judge of the Admiralty, the noble Lord's supporter in
505Viscount Sandon
 would consent to withdraw his motion, in compliance with the suggestions offered to him from both sides of the House, but he had no hope of justice from anything short of compulsion.Viscount Sandon
525 wished to say a few words in explanation of the vote he had given a few nights since, because he should be sorry to have it supposed that he obstinately preferred his own opinion to that of many hon. Members with whom he had always acted. He felt, however, he should not lower himself in the estimation of his friends by giving his vote in support of those principles which he conscientiously believed to be correct, notwithstanding their opposition. He would not now go into the arguments on the question, which had already been so frequently discussed, but he could not understand why they were now called upon to deviate from the course which had been pursued on former occasions. He could not see why they should deprive one class of men of those rights and privileges which they had possessed for a great number of years to give them to others, more especially when they recollected that those rights and privileges were originally given to them for the purpose of curbing those into whose hands it was now proposed to transfer them. He would state the reasons why he had voted against the second reading of this bill, and why he was now prepared to vote against going into committee. The House would recollect the time that had been taken up during the last two Sessions in discussing this bill. Every disposition had been manifested by that side of the House to give a bill to which they could conscientiously assent. Amendments had been proposed with a view of effecting this, and how had they been met by the noble Lord? With the most decided opposition. The hon. and learned Member for Bandon, upon the second reading of the bill, said that
525Colonel Verner
527"All persons now entitled to vote at the election of a member or members to serve in Parliament for any city, town, or borough, shall continue to enjoy such right as fully as if this act had not been passed, and that every person who, if this act had not been passed, would have had a right to be admitted a freeman or burgess, or to be placed on the roll of freemen or burgesses of any such borough as aforesaid, in order to be registered and to vote in the election of a member or members to serve in Parliament or might hereafter have been entitled to acquire in respect of birth, or marriage, or servitude, or of any statute then in force, as a freeman or burgess the right of voting in the election of a member or members to serve in Parliament for such borough, shall be entitled, if such borough be one of the boroughs named in the said schedule (A), or one of the boroughs to which a charter of incorporation shall have been granted, as hereinafter is mentioned, to be admitted a freeman or burgess, and placed on the roll of freemen of such borough, and to
527526 rose to move the first amendment of which he had given notice. He observed that the subject then before the Committee had been so often discussed and the arguments which bore upon it had been so often repeated, that he should not then trouble the House at any length. As he had given notice of his amendments, every hon. Member must have had an opportunity of knowing their scope and effect. He proposed to take each amendment separately, shortly stating the grounds upon which he brought them forward, and reserving any further observations that he might wish to offer till he found himself called on to answer objections to the amendments that he intended to propose. The first clause to which he wished to offer an amendment was that which had been introduced into the bill for the purpose of reserving the Parliamentary franchise to freemen. He had understood that the promoters of the measure had no intention of disturbing the present state of the Parliamentary franchise, and therefore, it was presumed that they purposed to leave the law relating to franchise untouched by the
527"All persons now entitled to vote at the election of a member or members to serve in Parliament for any city, town, or borough, shall continue to enjoy such right as fully as if this act had not been passed, and that every person who, if this act had not been passed, would have had a right to be admitted a freeman or burgess, or to be placed on the roll of freemen or burgesses of any such borough as aforesaid, in order to be registered and to vote in the election of a member or members to serve in Parliament or might hereafter have been entitled to acquire in respect of birth, or marriage, or servitude, or of any statute then in force, as a freeman or burgess the right of voting in the election of a member or members to serve in Parliament for such borough, shall be entitled, if such borough be one of the boroughs named in the said schedule (A), or one of the boroughs to which a charter of incorporation shall have been granted, as hereinafter is mentioned, to be admitted a freeman or burgess, and placed on the roll of freemen of such borough, and to
527526Mr. Shaw
"Every person who shall then have, or who, if this act had not been passed thereafter, would have had a right by reason of birth, marriage, or service, or of any statute so in force, to be admitted a freeman of any such borough, or after his admission to the freedom of such borough, to be placed on the roll of freemen of such borough, and to acquire as such freeman the right of voting in the election of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament for such borough, shall be entitled to be admitted and enrolled, as a freeman of such borough, on the freemen's roll of such borough, according to the provisions hereinafter contained, and to acquire and enjoy, as such freeman of such borough, such right of voting as fully as if this act had not been passed."528"Be it enacted that nothing herein contained shall prejudice, confirm, effect, or alter, any right of voting of any such person now registered, or any right to be registered of any such person who shall have been admitted a freeman of any such borough at any time before this act shall come into operation in that borough." was prepared to show that the amendment proposed was wholly unnecessary, even for the purposes which the right hon. Mover and his Friends had in view; but more than this he would contend that clause 6, as it now stood in the bill, protected every Parliamentary right. He challenged hon. Members on the other side to point out any individual case where the Parliamentary right was intended to be preserved, and which was not provided for by clause 6. Clauses 7 and 8 stood upon perfectly distinct grounds; but he now affirmed—and it would be for hon. Members on the other side to rebut the assertion if he were in error—that no case could be imagined which had not been provided for by the clause. It appeared to him that the wise and proper course would be at once to provide for all possible cases, and avoid the loose and ambigious phraseology of the amendment. The clause as it now stood in the bill was framed with the purpose of making provision for two classes—these who were already in possession of the franchise, and those who were not; the former class might be subdivided into those who had registered and those who had been admitted to their freedom, but whose names had not been placed upon the Parliamentary register. Now, he begged to call the attention of the Committee to the words of the clause:—
"Every person who shall then have, or who, if this act had not been passed thereafter, would have had a right by reason of birth, marriage, or service, or of any statute so in force, to be admitted a freeman of any such borough, or after his admission to the freedom of such borough, to be placed on the roll of freemen of such borough, and to acquire as such freeman the right of voting in the election of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament for such borough, shall be entitled to be admitted and enrolled, as a freeman of such borough, on the freemen's roll of such borough, according to the provisions hereinafter contained, and to acquire and enjoy, as such freeman of such borough, such right of voting as fully as if this act had not been passed."528"Be it enacted that nothing herein contained shall prejudice, confirm, effect, or alter, any right of voting of any such person now registered, or any right to be registered of any such person who shall have been admitted a freeman of any such borough at any time before this act shall come into operation in that borough."Mr. Pigot
529 said, that the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman had satisfied him that the hon. and learned Gentleman had, as he had suspected, a particular object in this clause. He was persuaded, that the hon. and learned Gentleman meant to introduce some more stringent construction of the words of the clause than would be ordinarily given to them. If, however, he would give up the 7th and
529Mr. Shaw
 could assure the right hon. Gentleman, that he was at that moment perfectly unable to comprehend what connexion existed between the 7th and 8th and 6th clauses. With respect to the former two, they were most undoubtedly intended to produce a change, but there was not the slightest intention of framing the 6th clause with reference to them, or of giving to it any other construction than what the plain language of it would allow.Mr. Pigot
 said, that confusion always arose when persons jumbled up two or three considerations on a single topic. The committee were now on the 6th clause, and if there were any objection to the 7th and 8th clauses, let them be discussed when they came to them. His hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Cashel, had challenged the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin to point out any persons who would lose any rights by passing this 6th clause. He not only, however, had pointed out no such person, but had admitted, that the 6th clause did not materially differ from his amendment, and that by itself he would not object to it. He hoped the House would not enter into a discussion on the 7th and 8th clauses until they had decided on the 6th, at present they were not in the bill, they were not sanctioned by the House.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that this clause was not without precedent, for he found in a bill which was introduced into the House on the 23rd of May, 1838, by the hon. and learned Member for Bandon, a similar clause respecting electors, with the exception of its applying only to cases of birth, and not of marriage, and it was from that clause he had framed the one now under discussion. The bill to which he had just alluded, was stated to be brought in by Sir W. Follett, Mr. E. Tennent, and Mr. Sergeant Jackson, so that he had good authority for adopting its phraseology. The only difference he had made was in extending it to cases of marriage as well as birth. He was perfectly ready, however, having stated what was the object of the clause, to concur in its modification for the purpose of securing any rights now in existence, provided it did not extend to the acquisition of any rights in respect of birth or marriage, through honorary freemen, since the year 1831.Mr. Pigot
bonâ fide said, that the clause referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman in the bill which he (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) had introduced, was for a very different object from that of the clause now before the House. His bill was for amending the law in respect of the registration of electors in Ireland—a most important subject—and he had inserted that clause because the Government for years had brought in bills professing the same object, but had not carried them out in a bonâ fideMr. Sergeant Jackson
531 said, what was sought for by this clause was to put the laws of the two countries on the same footing, and surely that was a most desirable object. Much had been said about the existence of rights, but he would put it to the right hon. and learned Recorder, whether there was anything in the English law like a right without a remedy? But was there any freeman of Dublin who had a legal remedy to enforce his right of franchise? What was now called a right amounted, in the city of Dublin, merely to a claim, which the aldermen and common council had an absolute power of rejecting at
531Mr. O'Connell
 could not assent to the proposition, that the present clause was merely a declaratory enactment. It would lake away existing rights of voting, and therefore ought to be brought before the House in a separate bill, with due notice, and not to be introduced for the first time in a committee upon a bill for the reform of municipal corporations.Mr. Litton
 said, it was not intended by the bill to affect existing rights, it was a distinct and definite abuse only which was meant to be dealt with. The franchise now in question was derived through the corporate body, and therefore formed a proper subject of legislation in a bill for the regulation of municipal corporations. A clause which existed in the Reform Bill for England was omitted in that which affected Ireland, and the present clause was introduced to place both countries in the same situation.Viscount Morpeth
 gave no opinion on the merits of the enactment proposed to be introduced by this clause, but he had much rather see it made the subject of a separate bill. If any improvement was more conspicuous than another in modern legislation, it was the practice of confining acts of Parliament to their proper objects, and of thus dispensing with the necessity of consolidating acts. It would be very inconvenient to have to look for the alterations in the system of representation not only in the Reform Act itself, and acts for the amendment of the Reform Act, but also in acts for totally distinct objects, such as the reform of municipal corporations. In his own acts for the consolidation of the criminal law, he had attended to these considerations, and he must say, that without reference to the merits of the present clause taken by itself, he was sorry to see an old and objectionable practice revived on this occasion.Sir R. Peel
534 had an amendment to propose on this clause, which was to strike it out altogether. His object was to render it optional with the different communities in Ireland to which the Bill had reference, to take or refuse corporations as they might think fit. The Bill now before the Committee divided the towns in Ireland into two classes. The first class, schedule A, consisted of eleven towns on which the acceptance of corporations was to be imperative, and the second, schedule B, of 37 with whom it was to be optional, and who were to slate them, through the medium of a petition signed by a majority of the rate-payers, to her Majesty. His proposition was to render the acceptance of corporations optional with all. He could not conceive what objection there could be to this alteration, as, in cases where corporations were wished for, the parties could get them without difficulty by petition. An hon. Gentleman opposite had lately presented a petition from the town of Gal-way, in which the inhabitants prayed that they might not be encumbered by corporations. It bad been alleged by those Members who did not approve of the petition, that the only reason why the inhabitants objected to a corporation was the objection to the boundaries proposed by the Bill—that they thought the intended municipal district too restricted in its extent. But that was not the case, as any one who read the petition would see. The inhabitants complained that they had no funds for municipal purposes, and that the law, as it stood at present, was quite sufficient for all their wants. Neither did the Galway people stand alone. The people of Clonmel had also petitioned, and their petition was signed by three-fourths of the rate-payers of the town. Belfast also, a town containing eighty thousand inhabitants, objected to the Bill, the petitioners stating that they were commercial people, and not at all anxious to be troubled with
534Mr. Sergeant Jackson
l seconded the amendment. He had consented to consider a measure of this kind last year, upon an understanding that it should be accompanied by a measure for securing the church of Ireland, and by a bill for providing for the poor of Ireland upon the principle of the English poor law. But to this bill, as now placed upon the table by the noble Lord, he could not give his assent. It inflicted, in many cases, manifest injustice upon the parties in Ireland with whom he acted and felt, more particularly upon the people of Sligo, who were now satisfied with the manner in which their town was governed under a local bill. The whole corporate property of that town did not exceed 100lColonel Perceval
535 said, if one or two towns in schedule A wished to decline having corporations, that was no reason why all the others in the same schedule should not have them conferred upon them by the act. The town of Galway, he assured the House, had only objected to having a
535Mr. Lynch
 knew that many of the towns included in the schedule A were not fitted to receive corporations, and many were not able to support the expenses incident to the possession of corporate forms of government. It would be much more in accordance with the feelings of the inhabitants of these smaller towns to be permitted to subscribe their corporate funds to the maintenance of the poor under the Poor Law (Ireland) Bill.Colonel Conolly
lllll observed, that the petition from Clonmel against the bill was got up through the means of a placard, which declared that a new corporation would entail on the town an expense first of 1,350lllllMr. Pigot
 said that the statement he had made was brought to his notice by Gentlemen on whom he placed full reliance. It was true that many humble persons had signed the petition, but it had also been signed by many highly respectable persons.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
536 still remained of opinion
536Lord Stanley
 was glad to hear corporations undervalued by hon. Gentlemen opposite. At one time it was said that any change in the corporations would destroy the Protestant religion of Ireland. These pillars, he was afraid, were now rotten, at all events they were thrown aside as of no value whatever. If the old corporations were of no value, he hoped the new corporations would be of a very different description.Mr. O'Connell
539"And be it enacted, that for the purposes of this Act, all places locally situate or included within the boundaries of any borough, or of any ward thereof, as defined under this Act, shall be deemed and taken to be a part or parts of such borough, or ward thereof respectively: and in those boroughs which are counties of themselves, shall be part of such county and of none other; and in every case in which the metes and bounds of any borough or county, under the provisions of this Act, shall not include any place or precinct which before the passing of this Act was part of such borough or county, such a place or precinct shall thenceforward be taken to be part of the county wherein such place or precinct is situated, or with which it has the longest common boundary. Provided nevertheless, that if any such place or precinct shall have been liable, before the passing of this Act, to contribute to any rate made for the purpose of satisfying any lawful debt to which the ratepayers of such borough or county were liable to contribute before the passing of this Act, and in case any difference shall arise concerning the proportion of such debt, which ought therefore to be paid and contributed in respect of such place or precinct, it shall be lawful for the Chief Justice of her Majesty's Court of Queen's Bench in Dublin, in the case of the county of Dublin, and the county of the city of Dublin, and in the case of any other county, for the senior justice of assize for the county of which such place or precinct shall thenceforward be taken to be part on his circuit, on the application of the council of such borough, or of the chairman of a public meeting of the ratepayers of such place or precinct, to appoint, by writing under his hand, a barrister, not having any interest in the question, to arbitrate between the parties, and by his award, under his hand and seal, to assess the proportion, if any, of such debt, which ought therefore to be paid and contributed in respect of such place or precinct, and such arbitrator shall also assess the costs of the arbitration, and shall direct by whom, and in what proportion, and out of what fund, the same shall be paid; and such rate as aforesaid shall continue to be levied by warrant of the council of such borough, and paid by such place or precinct as if this Act had not passed, until such proportion shall have been fully paid and satisfied, to the treasurer of the borough, and no longer; provided, nevertheless, that every county gaol, house of correction, or lunatic asylum, or court of justice, which at the time of the passing of this Act is taken to be for
539 proposed that it be omitted, and the following substituted:—
539"And be it enacted, that for the purposes of this Act, all places locally situate or included within the boundaries of any borough, or of any ward thereof, as defined under this Act, shall be deemed and taken to be a part or parts of such borough, or ward thereof respectively: and in those boroughs which are counties of themselves, shall be part of such county and of none other; and in every case in which the metes and bounds of any borough or county, under the provisions of this Act, shall not include any place or precinct which before the passing of this Act was part of such borough or county, such a place or precinct shall thenceforward be taken to be part of the county wherein such place or precinct is situated, or with which it has the longest common boundary. Provided nevertheless, that if any such place or precinct shall have been liable, before the passing of this Act, to contribute to any rate made for the purpose of satisfying any lawful debt to which the ratepayers of such borough or county were liable to contribute before the passing of this Act, and in case any difference shall arise concerning the proportion of such debt, which ought therefore to be paid and contributed in respect of such place or precinct, it shall be lawful for the Chief Justice of her Majesty's Court of Queen's Bench in Dublin, in the case of the county of Dublin, and the county of the city of Dublin, and in the case of any other county, for the senior justice of assize for the county of which such place or precinct shall thenceforward be taken to be part on his circuit, on the application of the council of such borough, or of the chairman of a public meeting of the ratepayers of such place or precinct, to appoint, by writing under his hand, a barrister, not having any interest in the question, to arbitrate between the parties, and by his award, under his hand and seal, to assess the proportion, if any, of such debt, which ought therefore to be paid and contributed in respect of such place or precinct, and such arbitrator shall also assess the costs of the arbitration, and shall direct by whom, and in what proportion, and out of what fund, the same shall be paid; and such rate as aforesaid shall continue to be levied by warrant of the council of such borough, and paid by such place or precinct as if this Act had not passed, until such proportion shall have been fully paid and satisfied, to the treasurer of the borough, and no longer; provided, nevertheless, that every county gaol, house of correction, or lunatic asylum, or court of justice, which at the time of the passing of this Act is taken to be for
539Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 said, that the observations of his learned Friend were very well worthy of attention, and if the clause were passed as it stood, he would take care to have the jurisdiction extended and settled in a subsequent clause.Mr. Pigot
lll rose to move the amendments of which be had given notice. He said, that as to the amount of qualification for the towns now to be incorporated, and which was 10lllMr. Shaw
540: This proposal would double the period of occupation, and diminish by one half the exemption from payment of rates which were proposed. Now, after the large concessions already made to the opposite side, he did not think that the Government could be called
540Viscount Morpeth
: His objection to this amendment was, that it made the qualification higher than that of England. He thought it should be exactly the same. He stood on that position, and maintained that if it were not conceded, it was absurd to talk of dealing with this measure in a conciliatory spirit.Mr. O'Connell
 observed, that no man pretending to the character of a statesman could insist on treating the two countries differently with regard to municipal corporations.Mr. S. O'Brien
l thought it exceedingly objectionable to lay down any rule for the practical working of a measure three years hence, when they could know nothing of the circumstances of the period. Though they fixed the qualification at 10lLord Stanley
 contended, that the increase in the grand jury cess which by the enactment of the new poor-law was to be deducted from the valuation of houses, tended to lower that valuation, and that it would be unfair, therefore, to fix so high a standard of qualification as that proposed.Mr. Sergeant Currie
 maintained, that the legal value was what the house would fetch between landlord and tenant.Mr. Shaw
: Such were the questions of litigation to which they were about to expose the Irish, by depriving them of the English law! The noble Lord (Stanley) contended at one time, that the English Municipal Bill could not be extended to Ireland, because the same machinery of rating did not exist in the two countries. He admitted that was a fair objection. But the noble Lord would strike out the present clause, which conferred on the Irish the benefit of the English law, when they should have qualified according to his view, and thought it desirable that the question of municipal corporations should be again opened three years hence.Mr. O'Connell
543 said, that he should be sorry to agree to any principle which
543Lord John Russell
onus628onusonus627onusl.626con.pro625624623bonâ fide622bonâ fideO'Connell621primâ facie620l.619618617s.s.616 having been called on by the Speaker, rose to bring forward his motion for leave to introduce "a bill to amend the laws relating to the registration of voters in Ireland." He said, although he had no reason to apprehend that any opposition would be made to the proposition which he was about to submit to the House, and which had already been conceded by Gentleman on that side of the House, of a plan for the removal of great and acknowledged abuses in the system of the registration of Parliamentary electors in Ireland, yet the subject was one of such great importance, that he considered it due to the subject itself, and more respectful to the House, if he ventured to beg for their indulgence while, as shortly as he could, consistently with the object he had in view, he stated the main objects which he proposed to accomplish, and the objects to which alone his motion was intended to be confined. And in the first place, they would allow him to assure the House that his first grand object was, if it were possible, that this question should be discussed in the House without any reference whatever to party feeling. It had been his fate to be so much mixed up with political discussions, and discussions connected with Ireland, that if he had followed the dictates of his own judgment he had much rather that the question had been brought forward by any other Member than himself, lest the circumstance of his bringing it forward might tend to controversy or excited feeling, which he was most sincerely anxious to avoid. But in bringing the question forward he was merely fulfilling a pledge which he might be supposed to have given when, as the organ of Lord Grey's administration, he stated the grounds on which at that time they did not contemplate any alteration in the system of Irish registration. He begged the House to believe, that he had not entered on this question of details with reference to any party interests in the country at large.
onus628onusonus627onusl.626con.pro625624623bonâ fide622bonâ fideO'Connell621primâ facie620l.619618617s.s.616Lord Stanley
638Stanley:637636635"No, no." did not intend any offence to the noble Lord when he expressed his regret that the noble Lord should have brought this measure forward, but he expressed the general feeling of the people of Ireland when he said that the noble Lord was the last person in the world who, from his principles and conduct towards Ireland, ought to have meddled in this matter. The principle of the noble Lord's political conduct had been to limit and restrict as much as possible the franchise of the people of Ireland. The noble Lord brought in the Irish Reform Bill on that principle. He contended with him on the subject out of the House and in the House, foot by foot, but where the noble Lord was worsted in argument he outvoted him. The noble Lord had great influence in the cabinet, and he succeeded in giving to Ireland a franchise which was admitted to be inferior in extent to that bestowed on England. (638Stanley:637636635"No, no."Mr. O'Connell
642641l.l.l.l.l.l.s.s.640639 said, that though he had
642641l.l.l.l.l.l.s.s.640639Lord Stanley
 said, that when he asserted that the Irish franchise was more restricted than the English, his meaning was, that the Irish Reform Bill, not going so far as to restore the same franchise which was continued in England—the freehold franchise, was by that means made infinitely short of the Reform Bill in England, comparing the two measures on the whole.Mr. O'Connell
: Then he had the hon. Member's admission of the fact, that setting the freehold franchise aside, the qualification of the leaseholders and householders was at least as comprehensive in the Irish bill as in the English. He had proved, indeed, that it was more so.Lord Stanley
 observed, that the clerks of the peace were compelled to prepare and print lists of every man who had a vote, and therefore the labour of compiling the returns from those lists would be trifling, as well as the expense.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that the lists referred to by the hon. and learned Member contained a register of claimants, and were continually undergoing changes, which would render them comparatively useless in making up the returns.Colonel Perceval
 also protested against the motion, on the ground of increasing the already increased charges upon counties. If the hon. Member would send for a list to each county, he could then have an abstract made by the officers of the House.Mr. Egerton
"The corporation of London having on the 12th instant resolved to present an address to her Majesty, her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, and his Royal Highness Prince Albert, on the marriage of her Majesty, and by the ancient custom of the city of London, the sheriffs being allowed to wait on her Majesty to receive her Majesty's commands with respect to the presentation of such address, be it resolved that Mr. Sheriff Evans be allowed to wait on her Majesty for the purpose of receiving such commands of her Majesty."No, nol.l.648647, in pursuance of the notice which he had given, rose to move that Mr. Sheriff Evans should be permitted to go at large for a day, in order that the sheriffs of London might wait upon her Majesty for the purpose of ascertaining when it would be her Majesty's pleasure to receive the Address
"The corporation of London having on the 12th instant resolved to present an address to her Majesty, her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, and his Royal Highness Prince Albert, on the marriage of her Majesty, and by the ancient custom of the city of London, the sheriffs being allowed to wait on her Majesty to receive her Majesty's commands with respect to the presentation of such address, be it resolved that Mr. Sheriff Evans be allowed to wait on her Majesty for the purpose of receiving such commands of her Majesty."No, nol.l.648647Sir M. Wood
 said, that it was not his intention to discuss a subject on which he had spoken so frequently before. He was afraid the hon. Alderman did not understand the grounds upon which the sheriff was detained; but, at all events, as agreeing to the motion could be attended with no good effect, and as the corporation might have the duty now required to be discharged performed by another officer, he felt it to be his duty to move, by way of amendment the other orders of the day.Lord J. Russell
l.649 said, that the noble Lord had accused his hon. Friend, the Member for the city of London, of not understand-
l.649Mr. Freshfield
Divide.Question,Question. rose to oppose the motion, and entered his protest against the unusual course which the noble Lord was pursuing in adjourning the House without postponing the notices on the paper. The noble Lord was attempting to get rid of his motion for the immediate discharge of his motion for the immediate discharge of the sheriffs. The sheriffs had now been five weeks that very day in custody. The House said that that was not punishment enough for them. ["Divide.Question,Question.Mr. Godson
 objected to the motion of the hon. Member in its present form, on the ground that it would be productive of great trouble and expense. It might be supposed that the returns now moved for were similar to those ordered in 1836, which were alluded to in the first paragraph; but that was not the fact, because the present motion was not merely for returns of the number of electors, but for classification of them also. This would impose great labour upon the clerks of the peace of the several counties; and it could not be supposed that they were to perform such great extra labour without remuneration. Did the hon. Member intend that the counties should respectively pay the expense of getting up these returns? If so, although he did not object to the information, he must decidedly object to that mode of defraying the expense of obtaining it. Unless, therefore, the hon. Member could shew him that the expense would not fall upon the counties, he should be inclined to oppose it.Lord Eliot
 admitted, that the information sought by the motion of the hon. Member, might not be unacceptable, but he wished to know in what way the Government could pay the clerks of the peace for furnishing it? If the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) had any means of remunerating those individuals, he should be glad to hear it. He wished the hon. Member to pause until that point was settled.Lord G. Somerset
613: Sir, the motion I have to make is to enable the House to proceed with the bills before it after the 1st of June next, so as to obviate the reproach cast upon us that we send measures up to the other House of Parliament when there are no Members in town to consider them sufficiently. Many bills to which this House paid a great deal of attention have been postponed from session to session on that ground. Mondays and Fridays would be occupied in supply by the government, and Tuesday would be, therefore, necessary to be added for the purposes of furthering the bills before the House. Under these circumstances I move, "That after
613Lord J. Russell
614 as it occurred to me that no hon. Member would bring forward any motion after the 1st of June, I did
614Lord John Russell
645 felt very strongly the objection founded on the extra labour imposed upon clerks of the peace in getting up returns like those now moved for by the hon. Member for Kilkenny. But if clerks of the peace were to be permitted to make
645Lord J. Russell
 hoped that the question would receive the serious consideration of the House. They should recollect that ever since the passing of the West India Emancipation Act, there had been a gradual decrease in West India produce, and a consequently increasing necessity for the encouragement of the cultivation of similar articles in India. The resolutions now before the House, formed, in fact, a commercial bill of rights, and, as such, he trusted, would receive the most serious attention of the House.Mr. A. Chapman
607 was anxious to follow the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Control, for a few moments, to impress upon those Gentlemen who represented the Court of Directors, the propriety of following the course he proposed. He had witnessed nothing in the House more pleasing than the Court of Directors coming forward in that House with an application for a full and free trade for those they were called to rule over, but he must confess he concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that the form in which the Court of Directors proposed it, was one imposing on the House too precipitate a discussion on a subject of such importance, for till this petition was presented to the House, neither the House nor the country had any notice of the course the Court of Directors were prepared to take; they were prepared to expect from them what could be expected from an enlarged policy, but not for the particular step adopted. What they called for was a Committee of the whole House to inquire into what was rightly denominated an entire change in the fiscal system of the country. He should have great difficulty in bringing himself to vote either way on the proposal before the House. He concurred, as he had before said, in the principal of free trade, and that they should not distinguish between East and West Indian produce. But he had heard no argument against the principal of the great demand made by his hon. Friend on his side of the House—nothing against the equalization of the duties on sugar and cotton. He must advert to the argument of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and begged the House to recollect the important consideration he had mentioned, that they were applying the principal of free trade to India, and had brought capital and English manufactures, into the market,
607Mr. C. Buller
 said, that with regard to Ireland, great expenses would be incurred in getting up these returns, but they could not be charged upon the county-rate. How were they to be paid?Mr. Shaw
599598597s.d.d.d.,s.13,8661,3161836
13,8661,31618368,9281,5231835
8,9281,52318357,926471834
7,92647183411,001411833
11,00141183325,15615In 1832
25,15615In 1832Unmanufactured.lbs. manufactured.
Unmanufactured.lbs. manufactured.
13,8661,3161836
13,8661,31618368,9281,5231835
8,9281,52318357,926471834
7,92647183411,001411833
11,00141183325,15615In 1832
25,15615In 1832Unmanufactured.lbs. manufactured.
Unmanufactured.lbs. manufactured.596bona fide595594478,010460,3442,790,2942,822,8721839
478,010460,3442,790,2942,822,8721839418,726443,3533,369,0843,520,6751838
418,726443,3533,369,0843,520,6751838270,078297,9233,562,7783,306,4081837
270,078297,9233,562,7783,306,4081837110,257155,9503,296,6413,601,7911836
110,257155,9503,296,6413,601,791183698,722107,1003,774,8213,524,2091835
98,722107,1003,774,8213,524,2091835121,48177,2303,748,9343,843,9761834
121,48177,2303,748,9343,843,976183498,282120,6253,469,6423,646,2041833
98,282120,6253,469,6423,646,204183379,59588,2383,824,2643,773,4561832
79,59588,2383,824,2643,773,4561832Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.
Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.Entered for Consumption.ImportedEntered for Consumption.Imported.
Entered for Consumption.ImportedEntered for Consumption.Imported.India.West Indies, Exclusive of the Mauritius.Years.
India.West Indies, Exclusive of the Mauritius.Years.
478,010460,3442,790,2942,822,8721839
478,010460,3442,790,2942,822,8721839418,726443,3533,369,0843,520,6751838
418,726443,3533,369,0843,520,6751838270,078297,9233,562,7783,306,4081837
270,078297,9233,562,7783,306,4081837110,257155,9503,296,6413,601,7911836
110,257155,9503,296,6413,601,791183698,722107,1003,774,8213,524,2091835
98,722107,1003,774,8213,524,2091835121,48177,2303,748,9343,843,9761834
121,48177,2303,748,9343,843,976183498,282120,6253,469,6423,646,2041833
98,282120,6253,469,6423,646,204183379,59588,2383,824,2643,773,4561832
79,59588,2383,824,2643,773,4561832Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.
Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.Entered for Consumption.ImportedEntered for Consumption.Imported.
Entered for Consumption.ImportedEntered for Consumption.Imported.India.West Indies, Exclusive of the Mauritius.Years.
India.West Indies, Exclusive of the Mauritius.Years.593 did not rise to express any difference of opinion from the hon. Gentleman who introduced the subject, either as to its importance, or the weight which it derived from the character of the Gentlemen who had signed the petition—the representatives of that great company which had so long managed our vast East Indian empire, and he might add, that the subject came further recommended by the circumstance of its being brought forward by a Gentleman who united in himself so many claims to attention as the hon. Baronet. He could assure the hon. Baronet and the House, that he approached the subject in anything but a hostile spirit. He might be permitted to say, that the hon. Baronet had no reason to apprehend that the question would be considered by Government with any desire to come to an unfavourable conclusion, when it was remembered that it was the good fortune of that Government, only a few years ago, in 1836, to carry the first great step towards placing the interests of our East Indian fellow subjects on the same footing as those of their fellow colonists in other parts of the world; that it was the present Government which in 1836 placed those two staple articles of East Indian produce, coffee and sugar, on the same footing with the same articles grown in the West Indies. He trusted, therefore, that if he felt it his duty on the present occasion to urge on the House the strong objections which he felt to its pledging itself to the
599598597s.d.d.d.,s.13,8661,3161836
13,8661,31618368,9281,5231835
8,9281,52318357,926471834
7,92647183411,001411833
11,00141183325,15615In 1832
25,15615In 1832Unmanufactured.lbs. manufactured.
Unmanufactured.lbs. manufactured.
13,8661,3161836
13,8661,31618368,9281,5231835
8,9281,52318357,926471834
7,92647183411,001411833
11,00141183325,15615In 1832
25,15615In 1832Unmanufactured.lbs. manufactured.
Unmanufactured.lbs. manufactured.596bona fide595594478,010460,3442,790,2942,822,8721839
478,010460,3442,790,2942,822,8721839418,726443,3533,369,0843,520,6751838
418,726443,3533,369,0843,520,6751838270,078297,9233,562,7783,306,4081837
270,078297,9233,562,7783,306,4081837110,257155,9503,296,6413,601,7911836
110,257155,9503,296,6413,601,791183698,722107,1003,774,8213,524,2091835
98,722107,1003,774,8213,524,2091835121,48177,2303,748,9343,843,9761834
121,48177,2303,748,9343,843,976183498,282120,6253,469,6423,646,2041833
98,282120,6253,469,6423,646,204183379,59588,2383,824,2643,773,4561832
79,59588,2383,824,2643,773,4561832Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.
Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.Entered for Consumption.ImportedEntered for Consumption.Imported.
Entered for Consumption.ImportedEntered for Consumption.Imported.India.West Indies, Exclusive of the Mauritius.Years.
India.West Indies, Exclusive of the Mauritius.Years.
478,010460,3442,790,2942,822,8721839
478,010460,3442,790,2942,822,8721839418,726443,3533,369,0843,520,6751838
418,726443,3533,369,0843,520,6751838270,078297,9233,562,7783,306,4081837
270,078297,9233,562,7783,306,4081837110,257155,9503,296,6413,601,7911836
110,257155,9503,296,6413,601,791183698,722107,1003,774,8213,524,2091835
98,722107,1003,774,8213,524,2091835121,48177,2303,748,9343,843,9761834
121,48177,2303,748,9343,843,976183498,282120,6253,469,6423,646,2041833
98,282120,6253,469,6423,646,204183379,59588,2383,824,2643,773,4561832
79,59588,2383,824,2643,773,4561832Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.
Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.Cwts.Entered for Consumption.ImportedEntered for Consumption.Imported.
Entered for Consumption.ImportedEntered for Consumption.Imported.India.West Indies, Exclusive of the Mauritius.Years.
India.West Indies, Exclusive of the Mauritius.Years.593Mr. Labouchere
J. C. Hobhouse:610J. Hobhouse:609608 concurred in the advice given by the Board of Directors, but he thought, on the present debate, they were rather discussing principles than matters of detail, and he asked the House whether or not it was not lamentable that
J. C. Hobhouse:610J. Hobhouse:609608Mr. Warburton
612 said, that the House would recollect that during the last Session there had been laid on the Table a copy of a treaty of commerce with the Sultan. No one could be more anxious than he was for the increase of our commercial connection—every new market that was opened improved the prosperity of the country—but this treaty, he understood, when applied to the provinces which had formerly constituted part of the Ottoman empire, was more likely to impede commerce than to forward it. Before that treaty, British goods exported to, or imported from Turkey, were liable to a duty of three per cent. In Turkey Proper there were various abuses and monopolies, and certain internal duties were, in consequence, imposed, amounting in some instances to 30 per cent, These were, by this treaty, done away with, and a fixed duty of nine per cent, imposed, making 12 percent., the outside charge that could be levied on British merchandise. This, which was a benefit on Turkey Proper, was otherwise in Syria, Egypt, and other parts where these abuses did not previously exist, inasmuch as England by acceding to the treaty, was liable to a duty of 12 per cent, while Russia which had refused to accede to it, was subject only to a duty of 3 per cent. His object in bringing forward this motion was to ascertain from the noble Lord what was the actual state of the case. France, Austria, and Sweden, had agreed to this Convention, but Russia bad not; and England could not be considered upon the same footing as the most favoured nations, while Russian subjects paid a duty of three per cent., and British subjects paid one of 12 per cent. He would conclude by moving for copies of any correspondence with the Foreign Office, or the British authority in the Levant, as to the continuance of monopolies agreed to be abolished by the Treaty of Commerce with the Porte; and of any representations made as to the increased duties levied by the said Treaty of Commerce in the provinces of the Danube,
612Mr. Hume
600d.s. was much pleased that a question so important, not only to India, but also to this country, had at length been brought under the consideration of the House, He agreed with every one of the resolutions except that which referred to the establishment of a differential duty on tea. He thought that by establishing such a duty they would be encouraging the investment of capital in a branch of commerce which they would eventually be obliged to check. With the resolution respecting East India spirits, he perfectly concurred; but he did not understand or approve of the distinction made by the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade between spirits distilled from sugar and that made from rice. By excluding the latter we should be putting a check on the productions of the great island of Ceylon, in which arrack was made in large quantities. Why should they not develope the resources of that great island? With respect to tobacco, he thought that the produce of India could be admitted to this country with great benefit both to the colony and the mother country. Any person acquainted with India knew that tobacco was sold in the bazaars of that country at a penny a pound; and if a duty of 1600d.s.Mr. Hume
644 said, it was true that the noble Lord would not find the returns of 1836 in the same words as the present motion, because it had been amended in order to make it more comprehensive. The
644Mr. Hume
643l.l.l."A return of the number of electors on the register for each county of England and Wales for the year 1839–40, and distinguishing, in classes, the number registered as freeholders, copyholders, leaseholders, occupying tenants at 50643l.l.l., pursuant to a notice which he had given, moved for
643l.l.l."A return of the number of electors on the register for each county of England and Wales for the year 1839–40, and distinguishing, in classes, the number registered as freeholders, copyholders, leaseholders, occupying tenants at 50643l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, the motion of last year had taken him by surprise, and he hoped that the noble Lord would be satisfied with putting the present as a notice. If he did so it would serve all the purposes of Members and the Government, giving the former the opportunity of bringing on their motions in due time, and enabling the latter to go on with the business of the country.Mr. Hume
634633 was happy to find, that the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, did not intend to offer any opposition to the motion of the noble Lord who had asked permission of the House to bring in his bill, and he was also exceedingly happy to find that the noble Lord would give this bill a fair and candid consideration. That was all that the noble Lord asked the House to give. He had now risen because the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat had done him the honour to refer to his conduct on this subject. It was one which had been admitted to be of great importance by Members on both sides of the House. Some years ago the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had himself complained of the state of the law affecting registration, and gave notice that he would move for leave to bring in a bill to amend it. The hon. and learned Gentleman, however, for reasons on which he would not speculate, never brought forward, any motion in pur-
634633Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 begged the noble Lord to consider, that if these returns would entail an unreasonable burden upon the public purse, how much greater was the burden imposed upon the clerks of the peace who were required to get them up. He had, as chairman of a county, repeatedly seen the great trouble and expense to which clerks of the peace were put by such motions as the present. Indeed, he doubted very much whether it were practicable to make the returns from Ireland now moved for. On behalf of a very meritorious class of public officers, upon whom this gratuitous, and he thought useless, burden was to be thrown, he protested against the motion, and recommended the hon. Member to put it in a simpler form, which he might do without losing any necessary information.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
611, after the offer made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, could not refuse to accede to his proposition. He hoped, with the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, that the committee would come to a quick decision, and he would say the only ground why he had proposed to bring this question before a Committee
611Sir R. Jenkins
"8. That those provisions of the existing laws of England which exclude seamen, natives of the territories of India, subject to the British Government, from the privilege of being considered British seamen, while that privilege is extended to natives of other British possessions, operate prejudicially to a class of persons entitled to the protection of Parliament; and that it is the opinion of this House, that the law, in this respect, ought to be amended.""7. That, under the construction of the term 'British possessions,' the produce of many parts of India subject to the authority of the British Government, is charged with rates of duties applicable to the produce of foreign countries. That it is the opinion of this House, that the whole of the territories of British India should receive the benefit of the term for commercial purposes."6. That it is the opinion of this House, that all inequalities existing in any of the colonial possessions of her Majesty in the amount of duty levied on goods, the produce of the United Kingdom, and those the produce of India, ought to be removed.585"5. That, with a view to the encouragement
585ad valorem"4. That while cotton and silk piece goods from the United Kingdom are admitted at the principal ports of India at an ad valorems.,d.s."3. That tobacco, the produce of British possessions in America, being subjected to a duty of only 2s.,d.s.s.s."2. That spirits being the produce of British possessions, are in no case, except that of India, subject to a higher rate of duty than 9s.s."1. That, with a view to carry out the intention of the Legislature, that sugar from the East Indian possessions should be admitted on equal terms with sugar from other settlements, it is the opinion of this House, that, on the prohibition of the importation of sugar into ports in India by the local Government, the importation of sugar into this country from the ports of India, at an equal rate of duty, ought to be permitted.584583l.l.,l.l.l.l.s.s.s.d.s.582l.581 rose to call the attention of the House to the petition of the East India Company, presented on the 11th inst., praying for further alteration of the duties on articles of East India produce; and to propose a series of resolutions, of which he had given notice. The territories which had been committed to the government of the petitioners by an act of the British Legislature, formed a very large and important portion of the British empire. The expense of carrying on the government of those possessions in India was defrayed by the petitioners themselves, and not only did they support their own military forces, and the establishments necessary for the preservation of order, but they contributed to the maintenance of the troops which were sent out by the Government at home. Our East India possessions were entitled, he submitted, to the fair and equitable consideration of the Legislature. It was the duty of the British Parliament to pro-
"8. That those provisions of the existing laws of England which exclude seamen, natives of the territories of India, subject to the British Government, from the privilege of being considered British seamen, while that privilege is extended to natives of other British possessions, operate prejudicially to a class of persons entitled to the protection of Parliament; and that it is the opinion of this House, that the law, in this respect, ought to be amended.""7. That, under the construction of the term 'British possessions,' the produce of many parts of India subject to the authority of the British Government, is charged with rates of duties applicable to the produce of foreign countries. That it is the opinion of this House, that the whole of the territories of British India should receive the benefit of the term for commercial purposes."6. That it is the opinion of this House, that all inequalities existing in any of the colonial possessions of her Majesty in the amount of duty levied on goods, the produce of the United Kingdom, and those the produce of India, ought to be removed.585"5. That, with a view to the encouragement
585ad valorem"4. That while cotton and silk piece goods from the United Kingdom are admitted at the principal ports of India at an ad valorems.,d.s."3. That tobacco, the produce of British possessions in America, being subjected to a duty of only 2s.,d.s.s.s."2. That spirits being the produce of British possessions, are in no case, except that of India, subject to a higher rate of duty than 9s.s."1. That, with a view to carry out the intention of the Legislature, that sugar from the East Indian possessions should be admitted on equal terms with sugar from other settlements, it is the opinion of this House, that, on the prohibition of the importation of sugar into ports in India by the local Government, the importation of sugar into this country from the ports of India, at an equal rate of duty, ought to be permitted.584583l.l.,l.l.l.l.s.s.s.d.s.582l.581Sir R. Jenkins
 thought the hon. Gentleman ought not to be permitted to impose this additional labour on the clerks of the peace, and that he could not get the information which he required by a motion of this sort.Mr. Estcourt
d.s.l.l.l.601a fortiori, said, that the question before the House resolved itself into two points—justice and self-interest. Justice towards India, and self-interest as regarded this country. His right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade did not seem rightly to understand the resolutions proposed by the chairman of the India Company. The motion of that hon. Member did not seek to pledge the House to the whole of those resolutions, but merely to inquiry, and that, too at no fixed or early date. He did not think that the arguments by which his right hon. Friend justified his opposition to those resolutions were at all tenable. For instance, he did not see what distinction could be made between our territory in India, and the countries which formed our dependencies. He thought that Mysore was as much entitled to encouragement in commercial matters as Bengal, with which it was connected. The President of the Board of Trade had attempted to justify the course pursued with respect to coffee. He could not agree with him in that, for he could not see why the same rule should not be applied with respect to India as to African coffee and then more might be imported from India and less from the Brazils. Tobacco was now imported even at the high duty; d.s.l.l.l.601a fortiori,Mr. Ewart
592ad valoremad valorem591l.l.,l.l.,l.l.590ad valorems.d.s.d.s.s.589s.s.,588587586 seconded the motion. He felt a deep consciousness of the importance of the present question, and he also felt prompted to discharge his duty by his strong feelings of gratitude and attachment towards that country, where he had passed the best days of his life. He knew well how little disposed hon. Members were to submit to the infliction of an Indian debate. There was none of that party feeling involved in it, which commanded the attention of the House, or afforded an expectation that the great leaders would take any share in the discussion—there were no watchful constituents to note those who were absent, or canvass the votes of those who were present. It was a mere detail of grievances long existing and patiently endured, urged perhaps by the feeblest portion of the House, on behalf of millions who exercised no influence in their councils. The day had passed by when India might be regarded as wholly separate and distinct
592ad valoremad valorem591l.l.,l.l.,l.l.590ad valorems.d.s.d.s.s.589s.s.,588587586Mr. Hogg
606605pari passu604603602 said, his hon. Friend, the chairman of the Court of Directors, and the hon. Gentleman who followed him, did him no more than justice in at-
606605pari passu604603602Sir J. Hobhouse
615—This is a question entirely affecting the independence of the House of Commons, and we should not under any circumstances agree to it on light grounds. A Member may have a motion calling in question the conduct of the Government, yet by the motion he will have the chance of bringing it forward greatly diminished, while the Government will derive in the same degree additional impunity. I can, as I have stated, conceive that special circumstances may make it advisable to allow only one day a-week for motions, but those circumstances have not been shown in the present case; and in any case the House should be extremely cautious how it adopted such a resolution as that proposed by the noble Lord. I am, however, glad that the noble Lord has adopted my suggestion with respect to postponement, and I would advise the noble Lord further, not to bring it forward at any time when, by possibility, any hon. Member may have
615Sir Robert Peel
—Sir, I am not at all disposed to throw any difficulty in the way of the noble Lord if on any occasion he shows a special cause to call for the motion he now proposes; but to make such a motion at the present period of the session, without such cause shown, is, I think, to begin rather too early. I can easily see what it will end in. If this motion be agreed to now it will form a precedent to regulate the business of the House in all future sessions, and thus hon. Members will be deprived of an opportunity of bringing forward measures which may be necessary in their estimation for the good of the country. As I have said, on special circumstances being shown, nothing whatever should prevent my acceding to the motion; but they have not; and the noble Lord, in a speech of less than three minutes, calls on us to relinquish a portion of our rights without reason assigned for so doing. At this early period, the 25th of February, I think the House can hardly decide what may come before it, and therefore I think it should not be asked to agree to such a proposition. There will, in my opinion, be a great advantage derived to the House if the noble Lord postpones his motion to a later period of the Session, when we shall be in a position to form a better judgment on the subject it involves. But, as I have said, to adopt it now would be to establish a precedent for future times, and that which is proposed for June this year, may be proposed for May next year, and so on for every year after in a decreasing ratio. Under these circumstances, I think the noble Lord should at least wait a little longer, until he sees what course the business of the House will take, before he brings on this motion.Sir R. Peel
632631630 admitted that the noble Lord had truly stated the history of the several steps which had been taken with regard to this subject since 1835, when the present Master of the Rolls for Ireland introduced a bill, which having passed through that House was sent up to the House of Lords, and was there, after a brief consideration, rejected. Another bill, which was very nearly the same in its provisions, was introduced into that House in 1836. It was true it had not gone through many stages there, but the Government had no reason to believe that its fate would be different to that of its predecessor, and they were also aware that if they persisted in forcing it on, they would expose themselves to the accusation which had been so frequently made from the opposite side, that it was a mockery of legislation to press on measures which they knew would be rejected elsewhere. From those considerations, the bill was abandoned. In 1838, the present Irish Chief Baron, then Attorney-general for Ireland, introduced another bill, with some slight difference in the provisions; that bill had not been carried through the House, but enough had been done to show that there was no chance of both sides agreeing to such a measure as would be calculated to conciliate the favour of the other House of Parliament, and that if they continued to urge it, they would be liable to the same imputation which he had already mentioned. It was clear, too, that that feeling was not confined to his (Lord Morpeth's) side of the House, for the hon. and learned Member for Bandon had in the same year obtained leave to introduce another bill, which he, however, did not carry through, though it proceeded to the last stage, and was recommitted for the purpose of being printed. In 1839 the hon. and learned Gentleman again gave notice of a motion for leave to introduce a bill upon this subject, and he (Lord Morpeth) naturally expected to find it the same as that which had previously been re-committed for the purpose of re-printing. The hon. and learned Gentleman, however, had not proceeded, probably because he felt that to carry any measure of amendment, however, desirable, would not prove an easy task. Since the accession of the present Government measures had been introduced during every session for the purpose of improving the system of registra-
632631630Viscount Morpeth
 said, that it was not his intention to object to the production of the papers that had been called for. At the same time he begged to say in explanation, that there might be some difficulty in furnishing all the information that had been required. The treaty had led to great changes in the commerce of Turkey, and it might be difficult to furnish the amount of the duties levied under it as compared to former times. There had been different degrees of advantages produced by it to the different provinces of Turkey, and some doubts might arise as to whether it would be for the benefit of Turkey or of British commerce that the treaty should apply to the provinces of the Danube. It was quite clear, however, that if it should not be found advantageous to either, there could be no difficulty on either side in not applying it in those parts. The treaty would effect a great change in the trade of Turkey, and some time must elapse before it could be brought fully into operation. That time had not yet come, but as soon as it should arrive he would give the House all the information he should possess on the subject.—Motion agreed to.Viscount Palmerston
658 said, that he had not taken age as a criterion for punishment,
658Sir E, Wilmot
 thought the bill of the hon. Baronet was of the most objectionable kind. It would, in fact, take the right of trial by jury from those who most needed that protection, and who could not be expected to be able to plead their own cause as well as those more advanced in years. He thought the magistrates were rightly trusted with the powers they had, but he was not inclined to extend their powers further, and to take away from the people the right of trial by jury. He had looked over the bill, and could not see one redeeming point in it, and he should, therefore, con-' cur in the amendment, that it be read a second time that day six months.Sir G. Strickland
659 wished not to give a silent vote on this question, since he should vote for the second reading, notwithstanding what had been said respecting trial by jury and expense. There was no person who more highly estimated trial by jury than he did, but he believed there might be many cases in which, how-1 ever good it might be in theory, it would I be very injurious in practice. The bill appeared to him to be one not of punishment, but reformation—to save juvenile offenders from the contamination of a gaol, and to educate them in their duty. He had not had so much experience as a magistrate as many gentlemen, yet, in practising his profession at Quarter Sessions, he had oft times been pained to see children of eight, nine, or ten years of age subjected to all the formalities of
659Mr. Aglionby
 asked where the magistrates were to send the youths—to prison? The only point was, then, whether there should be contamination before or after conviction. The whole question resolved itself into one of prison discipline.Mr. Pryme
. The hon. Member can-Hot have read the bill—for the bill says nothing about sending to prison, but tending to asylums or penitentiaries.Sir E. Wilmot
. The very words of the act are, "To the common gaol or house of correction, or some asylum."Mr. Pryme
654653de circumstantibus652, in moving the second reading of the Juvenile Offenders Bill, said, that several objections were made against the measure, but he trusted that the House would suffer it to be read a second time and to go into Committee, where those objections could be fairly, and he hoped satisfactorily, dealt with. The bill proposed to give summary jurisdiction to magistrates in misdemeanours; but it had been suggested to him that this proposition would
654653de circumstantibus652Sir E. Wilmot
protégis655lss said, it was with great regret he felt himself bound to oppose the second reading of the bill. He was far from stating, that the jurisprudence of the country ought to be left in its present state, and he was for excluding many offences from trial by jury, upon which he thought that a wrong decision was often come to. In 1834, the County-rate Committee, of which the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth was chairman, suggested that part of the criminal expense which bore on the county-rates should be transferred to the consolidated fund; and they stated, that some tribunal or other ought to be established for the trial of juvenile offenders. The Government so far acted on this report that they referred the subject to the Commissioners then sitting upon the criminal law; and they produced a report on juvenile delinquency, which might be called the third report of the commissioners. They stated, that if the property stolen was under the sum of 10protégis655lssMr. Miles
657 thought that the bill would not be improved by sending it to a committee such as that suggested by the hon. Gentleman; for he was of opinion that the object would be much better effected by the Government, upon whom that duty properly devolved, taking the matter into its own hands. To some of the details of the bill he was opposed, especially to that which limited the jurisdiction of the magistrates to offenders of a particular age—because it would deprive many persons of the benefit of trial by jury in cases where punishments of a serious character were involved. The duty of the Government was, to lower the grade of offences, and to withdraw several classes of crimes from the subdenomination of larceny. Minor offences punished in a summary way would greatly relieve the calendar, but he felt that the infliction of punishment by six months' confinement was too large a power to be intrusted to the discretion of the magistrates. In many cases a fine, not an immoderate one, but a fine suited to the condition of the individual, would be far more eligible in many trivial cases than imprisonment for any, even the shortest, term. As to the opinion expressed by the Under-Secretary, that it was expedient to send the matter to a committee up-stairs, in order to ascertain the opinion of country gentlemen upon the subject, and to know what influence the measure if carried into a law, would have upon the county-rate, he would take leave to inform the hon. Gentleman that the general opinion of country gentlemen upon the subject was, that no additional burthen ought to be imposed upon the county rates—that those rates were sufficiently burthened already, and were likely to be encumbered with a heavier burthen by the imposition of rates for paying the rural police, which would very probably double these rates. As to the efficiency of the rural police in controlling minor offences, he would not hazard an opinion, because the measure was not fairly tested by experience; but if it had not that effect-namely, to coerce minor offences, there existed not a doubt but that it would
657Colonel Wood
 said, that if the bill were permitted to pass, there would be no end to juvenile offences, juvenile gaols, juvenile courts, and all that, without the benefit to the prisoners of trial by jury. The principle of the bill was unconstitutional, because it conferred a power upon two magistrates to become judge, jury, and executioner at once. He would, therefore, oppose the second reading of the bill, because its principles were obnoxious; and he would also oppose sending it to a committee up stairs, because no committee could remedy by details a bill fraught with what he believed to be an unconstitutional principle.General Johnson
656 said, that he thought the hon. Gentleman had thrown out a suggestion which should be attended to, and he hoped the hon. Baronet would consent to adopt the proposition that had been made. There was much that was good in the principle of the hon. Baronet's measure. He thought that in particular the resolution to dispose of juvenile offenders in a way different from anything they had hitherto done was a useful one. In a committee up-stairs they would have an opportunity of discussing that matter as well as the other advantages of the bill. He believed that it would also be important to ascertain whether they might not be able to change the present manner of holding petty ses-
656Mr. Fox Maule
 should vote for the bill being referred to a select committee up stairs, in order to legislate prudently upon the subject, and with the advantages of the best possible information. He knew that in the district with which he was connected the magistrates were unanimous in stating their regret that they had not summary jurisdiction with respect to offenders under 16 years of age.Mr. A. White
 thought the House was indebted to his hon. Friend for bringing forward the measure, and he did not think it necessary lo refer the question of summary punishment in cases of minor offences to a Committee up stairs, as that question had already been examined in Select Committees, and reported upon by them.Mr. Sanford
 would not wish to reject the bill, because he was sensible that the grounds upon which it was introduced, and the principle which it contained were valuable. If, however, he was compelled to vote upon the second reading, and without submitting the bill to a committee to amend the details, he would vote in the negative and reject the measure. There was no doubt but the hon. Baronet who introduced the measure had bestowed considerable attention upon the subject; but in his (Mr. Estcourt's) opinion, he was wrong in making age a criterion for summary jurisdiction, for it was notorious that there were juvenile offenders at sixteen who were guilty of greater and grosser offences than persons who were far more advanced in years. However, if the hon. Baronet would accede to the suggestion of the mover of the amendment, he would give him his support.Mr. Estcourt
 said, that seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, in his place, he wished to put a question to him relative to a bill which was passed in a former session upon international copyright. He wished to know whether any negotiation for carrying into effect the design of that bill had been concluded with any foreign power, or if the noble Lord could afford any prospect of any one of the negotiations, which it was understood had been going on for some time, being brought to a speedy conclusion?Viscount Mahon
 replied, that since the bill was passed, several communications with foreign powers bad taken place upon the subject, but as yet they had not come to any agreement. He hoped, however, that he would be able soon to announce that result.Viscount Palmerston
 expressed his regret that it was not in his power to confirm the report in all respects. It was quite true that negotiations with Naples were pending, but that the sulphur monopoly was abolished was unfortunately not true. Regarding that monopoly as a violation of the existing treaty, it was greatly hoped that they should very soon hear of its abolition.Viscount Palmerston
 saw by the public papers that a report had reached this country, that a new treaty of commerce was made or about to be made with Naples, and that the abolition of the sulphur contract had been agreed upon. As that report had occasioned some anxiety amongst commercial men, he wished to know from the noble Lord whether it was true.Viscount Sandon
662 brought up a report from the General Committee of Elections, stating that some difficulties and irregularities had occurred in the proceedings in reference to the laid low election, in consequence of the parties engaged in supporting the claim of the sitting Member not having been duly served with the proper notices. The committee, therefore, recommended that further time should be granted by the Orders of the House Nos. 1 and 2 being discharged. The hon. Member moved that the report be printed, and gave notice that on the following day he would move that the Orders be discharged, and that the petition of George Cooper and
662Mr. Ord
: It was a Government motion.An hon. Member
704 said, that he must protest against part of the speech of the hon. Member for Westminster. He did not complain of the hon. Gentleman's attack upon Lord Monteagle, but he did complain of his mixing up in that attack another party with whom he was totally unconnected. The motion, he must say, was as idle a one as any that could be proposed; but as it was intended to inflict a stain upon the character of an aged and respectable man, he could not let it pass in silence. The question was not whether this House should vote a pension to Sir John Newport for his public services, or whether the Government should be censured for allowing him to retire with a
704Mr. O'Connell
669 said, that he had intended to move for "An Address to her Majesty, that she would be graciously pleased to direct the Commissioners for the Asylum Schools of Chelsea, Southampton, and Greenwich, to make such modifications in the regulations therein in force, as may secure to the children of Catholic and Protestant Dis-
669Mr. Langdale
 said, that after the assurance he had just received from the right hon. Gentleman, he would not press his motion.Mr. Langdale
 thought that the course pursued by the right hon. Baronet on this question was correct and proper. No doubt an error had been committed on the occasion in question; in fact, it was publicly known that two writs were issued. But the clerk of the Crown would unquestionably be able to explain how the mistake occurred. He knew nothing beyond what he had gathered from a statement made by the clerk himself. He had no objection to make to the motion of the right hon. Baronet, but would, on the contrary, second it.Mr. F. Maule
Fabula narratur.""——Mutato nomine de te679"Mrs. A. Leggatt. "E. HOWARD.""Your obedient Servant,"I have the honour to be,"Madam,—I am desired by Viscount Melbourne to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of August 30, and to inform you, that in consequence of regulations that have been laid down by the House of Commons with regard, to pensions, he is unable to comply with your request."Downing-street, Sept. 5, 1839."W. Leake, Esq. "R. BOURKE.""Your obedient servant,"I have the honour to be, Sir,"Sir,—I am desired by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 20th, and to express his regret that your former communication should have remained unanswered. He directs me to inform you, that it will not be in his power to relieve Mrs. Leggatt in the object she has in view, as it does not belong to the business of his department to submit for Her Majesty's gracious consideration the applications that may be made for the grant of a pension. This duty, he desires me to add, is confined to the First Lord of the Treasury."Downing-street, August 22, 1839.678argumentum ad misericordiamlllllll677ll676hon. Member:ad misericordiam.675l"That, considering all these circumstances, and more especially the great importance of keeping the Comptroller-general of the Exchequer independent of the influence of the Crown, as also of insuring a strict adherence to the spirit of the resolution of this House on the subject of Civil-list pensions, this House deems it expedient to express its decided opinion that the grant of 1,000675ll"That it appears, that provision was made in the act of the 1st and 2nd Victoria, c. 2, that the sum which her Majesty might be empowered to grant in pensions on the Civil-list in any one year should not exceed the sum of 1,200l674"That it appears that it was also especially provided by the said act, 4 and 5 William 4th, c. 24, that the holder of the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer should be precluded on his retirement from that office from all claims to any of the pensions which the Crown was thereby empowered to bestow for civil or political services.""That no person is qualified to receive any pension on the ground of public duties performed in the highest offices of the state, unless he shall have continued in the performance of such duties for a period of two years at the least.""That it appears that the said Comptroller-general filled the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland during the period of thirteen months only—namely, from the month of February, 1806, to the month of April, 1807."673672"That considering that Sir John Newport was not in affluent circumstances when he thus withdrew from office, this House is satisfied, that a grant of a pension to a retired Controller of the Exchequer in circumstances so peculiar cannot be drawn into a precedent in favour of persons who have not 'just claims on the Royal beneficence, and are not distinguished by the performance of duties to the public.'"671"That after serving for five years in the honourable office of Controller of the Exchequer, being then upwards of eighty years of age, and afflicted with bodily infirmity, he
671"That it appears to this House that the right hon. Sir J. Newport, in his official capacity of Chancellor of the Exchequer in Ireland, exerted himself to the utmost to restrain useless expences, to promote education, and to improve trade and intercourse between Ireland and the other parts of the United Kingdom; that while in the said office he directed, and after leaving office suggested, various inquiries which led to the adoption by Parliament of measures highly conducive to the better administration of the law, and beneficial to the revenue."670 said, that in rising to move the resolutions of which he had given notice, be must express his satisfaction, that on this question the Government seemed determined to show fight. For the champion they had put forward on this occasion he entertained the highest possible respect; but, at the same time that he expressed that respect, he could not compliment the noble Lord on the choice of his
Fabula narratur.""——Mutato nomine de te679"Mrs. A. Leggatt. "E. HOWARD.""Your obedient Servant,"I have the honour to be,"Madam,—I am desired by Viscount Melbourne to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of August 30, and to inform you, that in consequence of regulations that have been laid down by the House of Commons with regard, to pensions, he is unable to comply with your request."Downing-street, Sept. 5, 1839."W. Leake, Esq. "R. BOURKE.""Your obedient servant,"I have the honour to be, Sir,"Sir,—I am desired by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 20th, and to express his regret that your former communication should have remained unanswered. He directs me to inform you, that it will not be in his power to relieve Mrs. Leggatt in the object she has in view, as it does not belong to the business of his department to submit for Her Majesty's gracious consideration the applications that may be made for the grant of a pension. This duty, he desires me to add, is confined to the First Lord of the Treasury."Downing-street, August 22, 1839.678argumentum ad misericordiamlllllll677ll676hon. Member:ad misericordiam.675l"That, considering all these circumstances, and more especially the great importance of keeping the Comptroller-general of the Exchequer independent of the influence of the Crown, as also of insuring a strict adherence to the spirit of the resolution of this House on the subject of Civil-list pensions, this House deems it expedient to express its decided opinion that the grant of 1,000675ll"That it appears, that provision was made in the act of the 1st and 2nd Victoria, c. 2, that the sum which her Majesty might be empowered to grant in pensions on the Civil-list in any one year should not exceed the sum of 1,200l674"That it appears that it was also especially provided by the said act, 4 and 5 William 4th, c. 24, that the holder of the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer should be precluded on his retirement from that office from all claims to any of the pensions which the Crown was thereby empowered to bestow for civil or political services.""That no person is qualified to receive any pension on the ground of public duties performed in the highest offices of the state, unless he shall have continued in the performance of such duties for a period of two years at the least.""That it appears that the said Comptroller-general filled the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland during the period of thirteen months only—namely, from the month of February, 1806, to the month of April, 1807."673672"That considering that Sir John Newport was not in affluent circumstances when he thus withdrew from office, this House is satisfied, that a grant of a pension to a retired Controller of the Exchequer in circumstances so peculiar cannot be drawn into a precedent in favour of persons who have not 'just claims on the Royal beneficence, and are not distinguished by the performance of duties to the public.'"671"That after serving for five years in the honourable office of Controller of the Exchequer, being then upwards of eighty years of age, and afflicted with bodily infirmity, he
671"That it appears to this House that the right hon. Sir J. Newport, in his official capacity of Chancellor of the Exchequer in Ireland, exerted himself to the utmost to restrain useless expences, to promote education, and to improve trade and intercourse between Ireland and the other parts of the United Kingdom; that while in the said office he directed, and after leaving office suggested, various inquiries which led to the adoption by Parliament of measures highly conducive to the better administration of the law, and beneficial to the revenue."670Mr. Liddell
l"That, considering all these circumstances, and more especially the great importance of keeping the Comptroller-general of the Exchequer independent of the influence of the Crown, as also of ensuring a strict adherence to the spirit of the resolution of this House on the subject of civil-list pensions, this House deems it expedient to express its decided opinion that the grant of 1,000ll"That it appears that provision was made in the Act of 1st and 2nd of Victoria, c. 2, that the sum which her Majesty might be empowered to grant in pensions on the civil list, in any one year, should not exceed the sum of 1,200l"That it appears that the person holding the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer, now constitutes the sole check (in lieu of all others formerly existing under the ancient regulations of the Exchequer) on the expenditure of all public moneys issued through the Exchequer by the authority of the commissioners of the Treasury; and it is specially provided that he should be incapable of holding any other office under the Crown in conjunction with such comptrollership, and should be irremovable from his office, except in pursuance of an address from the two Houses of Parliament, this officer being thus withdrawn from the exercise of any influence of the Crown over him in the discharge of his functions."That it appears that it was also specially provided by the said Act, 4th and 5th William 4th., c, 24, that the holder of the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer, should be precluded, on his retirement from that office, from all claim to any of the pensions which the Crown was thereby empowered to bestow for civil or political services."That it appears, by reference to the Act 4th and 5th William 4th, c. 24 (by which the granting of pensions for political services was regulated), that no person is qualified to receive any pension on the ground of public duties performed in the highest offices of the State unless he shall have continued in the performance of such duties for a period of two years at the least."That it appears that the said Comptroller-general filled the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland during the period of thirteen months only, viz., from the month of February, 1806, to the month of April, 1807.680l"That it appears, by a copy of a warrant on the table of this House, that a pension of 1,000lotium cum dignitate,"Dat veniam corvis, vexat censura columbas.": But the Government selected the noble Lord to make out its case, and after doing that, he ought to have been the last man whom it should have chosen for this proceeding, which would never go by any other title than the Monteagle job,
l"That, considering all these circumstances, and more especially the great importance of keeping the Comptroller-general of the Exchequer independent of the influence of the Crown, as also of ensuring a strict adherence to the spirit of the resolution of this House on the subject of civil-list pensions, this House deems it expedient to express its decided opinion that the grant of 1,000ll"That it appears that provision was made in the Act of 1st and 2nd of Victoria, c. 2, that the sum which her Majesty might be empowered to grant in pensions on the civil list, in any one year, should not exceed the sum of 1,200l"That it appears that the person holding the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer, now constitutes the sole check (in lieu of all others formerly existing under the ancient regulations of the Exchequer) on the expenditure of all public moneys issued through the Exchequer by the authority of the commissioners of the Treasury; and it is specially provided that he should be incapable of holding any other office under the Crown in conjunction with such comptrollership, and should be irremovable from his office, except in pursuance of an address from the two Houses of Parliament, this officer being thus withdrawn from the exercise of any influence of the Crown over him in the discharge of his functions."That it appears that it was also specially provided by the said Act, 4th and 5th William 4th., c, 24, that the holder of the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer, should be precluded, on his retirement from that office, from all claim to any of the pensions which the Crown was thereby empowered to bestow for civil or political services."That it appears, by reference to the Act 4th and 5th William 4th, c. 24 (by which the granting of pensions for political services was regulated), that no person is qualified to receive any pension on the ground of public duties performed in the highest offices of the State unless he shall have continued in the performance of such duties for a period of two years at the least."That it appears that the said Comptroller-general filled the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland during the period of thirteen months only, viz., from the month of February, 1806, to the month of April, 1807.680l"That it appears, by a copy of a warrant on the table of this House, that a pension of 1,000lotium cum dignitate,"Dat veniam corvis, vexat censura columbas."Mr. Liddell
739tu quoque replied. After the allusion that had been made by the hon. Member for Finsbury, to some former transactions of former governments, he wished to say a few words. The hon. Member gave the 739tu quoqueMr. Liddell
718717716715llll714713712 said: Sir, I came down to the House prepared to defend an act of my noble Friend, Lord Melbourne, against the somewhat fine-drawn resolutions moved by the hon. Gentleman opposite. But instead of having this task to perform, I see the right hon. Baronet opposite who has just sat down wishes to blink this question, and to use these resolutions, which entirely concern the pension granted to Sir J. Newport, and the comptrollership of the Exchequer, as a means of attacking a noble Lord who was Chancellor of the Exchequer, and who is not now in his place to defend himself. I do not feel it necessary to enter into a defence of my noble Friend's conduct, because it does not properly come before us; but I certainly was surprised at the attack which has been made, because I remember that the right hon. Baronet was for a long time a member of that cabinet under which Mr. Spring Rice was an able and efficient Secretary to the Treasury; and I should have thought that the right hon. Gentleman would have recollected with some gratitude, the able, zealous, and eloquent speeches which Mr. Spring Rice made in defence of that government, when the right hon. Gentleman so often shrunk from his duty in maintaining its acts. I should have thought, certainly, that the right hon. Gentleman would not have altogether forgotten those services, or failed to call to mind how much that Government, of which he was a member in a very high office, and for which he said so little, owed to the very able and
718717716715llll714713712Lord J. Russell
, in explanation, repeated, that on the authority of Lord Melbourne, Lord Duncannon, and Sir John Newport, he had stated, and must restate, the retirement of Sir John Newport was not effected to answer the purposes of Government.Lord John Russell
738l737 felt much embarrassment in stating, that he differed from those with whom he usually acted; but as this was a judicial question, he was bound to decide it by the construction of the act of Parliament, and by his opinion of the merits of the individual who was the more immediate subject of the motion. He could not depreciate the merits of the right hon. Gentleman; he agreed with his
738l737Mr. Williams Wynn
 thought there would be great public advantage in having a map of the United Kingdom, displaying the Post-office accommodation, and the proportion which it bore to the wealth, population, and general circumstances of each district.Mr. Lucas
703 rose to protest against what he must consider one of the most unfounded and shameless attacks upon one of the most honest, most indefatigable, and best men that had ever sat within the walls of that House. Never, he would venture to say, was there a man less open to attack, or more deserving of all praise for his public services, than his right hon. Friend, Sir John Newport. His right hon. Friend, unsubdued by failure and by opposition, had, by perseverance and ability, forced many most useful measures upon the most reluctant Governments. There was scarcely a branch of legislation, particularly as far as Ireland was concerned, in which Sir John Newport had not been mainly instrumental in effecting great and useful reforms. His successful exertions in the reform of the law in Ireland could be fully estimated only by those conversant with the subject. Was it not also notorious, that Sir John Newport had effected the reform of the Exchequer in Ireland, which led to the consolidation of the Exchequer of the two countries, and to a consequent great annual saving of the public money? Sir John Newport had never swerved from his principle, and it was well known that he refused office, and parted from the early friends of his youth, sooner than concede his principles on the Catholic question. The resolutions of the hon. Member for North Durham would have the effect of indirectly passing a vote of censure upon Sir John Newport for accepting his pension. If the Ministers of the Crown were wrong in granting this pension, Sir John Newport was wrong in accepting and retaining it. He believed, that it was the best-earned pension that was upon the list. He challenged inquiry into the pension list, and he would ask the House and the country to say, whether there was a name on the pension
703Mr. Barron
702llll701700lCheers.699lllll698l697"Strange such a difference there should be 'Twixt Tweedledum and Tweedledee." did not complain, that the noble Lord had characterized the speech of the hon. Mover of the resolution as didactic twaddle, while he must say, that the reply to it might be truly characterized as official twaddle and misrepresentation. It was difficult to understand what was the distinction between the resolutions proposed and the amendment submitted to the House—the one said, that this ought not to be drawn into a precedent—the other said, it cannot be drawn into a precedent—
702llll701700lCheers.699lllll698l697"Strange such a difference there should be 'Twixt Tweedledum and Tweedledee."Mr. Leader
 hoped, that his hon. Friend the Member for Greenock would not, under present circumstances, press his motion.Mr. Hume
733ll said, that having been alluded to, he could not allow the discussion to be closed without stating his opinion to be, that both sides had taken a wrong course. If he was called upon to vote for the original motion or the amendment, he felt that he should be compelled to vote for both. The hon. Gentleman who had proposed the original resolution did not apply his speech to it. If the hon. Gentleman meant a vote of censure to be passed upon Lord Monteagle, neither his speech nor the resolution went to that. Therefore it was, that he did not know how to act. If it was intended to blame any party, he thought they ought to have been brought before the House by name. The right hon. Baronet had not been so fortunate in his dates, as he had been strong in his reasoning, because he said, if in 1835 he had made such an appointment, what would have been the consequences? Now the right hon. Baronet must have known, that the law did not exist at that time, which gave to her Majesty the power of granting pensions every year to the amount of 1,200733llMr. Hume
lll666"That it is the duty of the Postmaster-general to afford all reasonable facilities and accommodation to communities who have not a post-office or a post at present, especially to such as have a desire to send their letters openly and legally, and who shall apply to the Postmaster-general for the usual means of doing so: that the case of more than 1,000 inhabitants in the parish of Bowden, in the county of Roxburgh, as represented in their petition to this House, is one of great hardship, and directly in point; therefore, that the prayer of the petitioners should be granted, by the Postmaster-general, affording to them similar post-office accommodation to that enjoyed by their neighbours in the adjoining parishes." rose pursuant to notice, to move,
lll666"That it is the duty of the Postmaster-general to afford all reasonable facilities and accommodation to communities who have not a post-office or a post at present, especially to such as have a desire to send their letters openly and legally, and who shall apply to the Postmaster-general for the usual means of doing so: that the case of more than 1,000 inhabitants in the parish of Bowden, in the county of Roxburgh, as represented in their petition to this House, is one of great hardship, and directly in point; therefore, that the prayer of the petitioners should be granted, by the Postmaster-general, affording to them similar post-office accommodation to that enjoyed by their neighbours in the adjoining parishes."Mr. Wallace
l"Mr. Bathurst, although called by the hon. Baronet a very young gentleman, had been a considerable time at the bar. He really did not see what there was to attract hon. Gentlemen's laughter in the circumstance of a gentleman pursuing an honourable profession. It might appear ridiculous to some hon. Members, but to him it appeared an honourable path for a man to pursue, whatever might be his rank in life. Mr. Bathurst and Mr. Dundas, who had both embarked in different professions, abandoned them on being put into the situations of commissioners of the navy, and the principle of compensation and allowances, when reduced, applied perfectly to them."736"As to the precise nature of the services of those individuals, he was not prepared to answer. He thought it rather unfortunate that
736735Hear, hear.l734 felt some difficulty in rising to speak upon a subject which had been designated a job. The question was, how were they to deal with this job? When his hon. Friend rose, he thought it was for the express purpose of saying something in defence of the proposition which he had placed on the notice paper; that, however, he had not done; and if it were possible, according to the forms of the House, for the Speaker to put all the three different propositions from the chair together, the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for North Durham, the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for the West Riding of the county of York, and the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny—if the Speaker could put those three propositions together to the House, all he could say was, that he should feel the greatest satisfaction in voting against all the three; for he had
l"Mr. Bathurst, although called by the hon. Baronet a very young gentleman, had been a considerable time at the bar. He really did not see what there was to attract hon. Gentlemen's laughter in the circumstance of a gentleman pursuing an honourable profession. It might appear ridiculous to some hon. Members, but to him it appeared an honourable path for a man to pursue, whatever might be his rank in life. Mr. Bathurst and Mr. Dundas, who had both embarked in different professions, abandoned them on being put into the situations of commissioners of the navy, and the principle of compensation and allowances, when reduced, applied perfectly to them."736"As to the precise nature of the services of those individuals, he was not prepared to answer. He thought it rather unfortunate that
736735Hear, hear.l734Mr. T. S. Duncombe
 said, that considering how very large a proportion of the army and navy was composed of persons conscientiously dissenting from the Established Church, he was quite sure that no Gentleman in the House would say the rewards which those gallant men had earned in the service of their country should be withheld from their children in consequence of their religious dissent. He could never adopt such a doctrine; but at the same time, any change in the establishments referred to by the hon. Member should be made with great care and caution; and if the hon. Member would consent to withdraw his motion, he would assure him that the subject should be immediately and seriously considered by the Government, with the most earnest desire to do everything that could be required for the end he had in view. At the same time he would just say, that as far as he was concerned, he foresaw no objection to the children attending their own place of worship, and not being compelled to learn the Church catechism.Mr. Macaulay
665664nisi prius rose to move for a copy of the warrant of his late Majesty King William 4th, under which the Court was opened to the King's counsel and outer barristers, and which was published in that court on the 25th day of April, 1834. Returns of the number of actions commenced in the Court of Queen's Bench, Exchequer, and Common Pleas, respectively in each year, for the period of five years prior to the publication of the said warrant, and five years subsequent thereto. Return of the date at which the Court of Common Pleas gave its judgment, determining no longer to hear Queen's counsel and outer barristers, but to restore an exclusive privilege to the sergeants. Returns of the number of clauses and rules standing for argument in the said courts respectively in the special paper, new trial paper, peremptory paper, or paper for enlarged rules, crown paper, and with paper, if any, kept in the said courts, for the entry of arrears, on the first day of each term within the same period. Return of the number of days after each term appointed by the same courts respectively for sitting under the provision of the Act 1 and 2 Vic., c. 32. Return of the number of causes, distinguishing between special jury, common jury causes, and standing for trial at 665664nisi priusMr. Ewart
667 declined to follow his hon. Friend through the whole of the observations which he had addressed to the House, but should rather content himself with shortly stating
667The Chancellor of the Exchequer
668 regretted that he was not in a position to say how soon it would be in the power of the Post-office to introduce stamped covers. It was intended in the first in-
668The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that that was what he meant. The object with which it was proposed to limit it to that district was for the purpose of having the working of the stamped plan as much as possible under the eye of the General Post-office. The returns to which the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, referred, were in course of preparation, and he hoped before long that it would be in his power to lay them on the Table of the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
732R. Peel:ll"He was quite averse to the proposition: that a popular assembly could never wisely interfere with the patronage of the Crown. There was no instance in the history of Parliament of its ever having wisely interfered with the discretionary power of the executive. An assembly such as the House of Commons was too much governed by temporary passions and feelings for the salutary exercise of such a right. The course of proceeding on the part of such a body would be, that, under certain circumstances, they would give a great deal too much; whilst, under the influence of other considerations, they would be tempted to neglect public services of the highest order."731730729 rose to follow the right hon. Baronet, with the view, as far as possible, of confining the attention of the House to that which was the real state of the question, and to warn it not to be led into a discussion of those topics which his right hon. Friend opposite (Sir James Graham) had so dexterously introduced, and introduced, as he could not help thinking, with the hope of picking up some stray votes. He, therefore, neither proposed to follow his right hon. Friend into the attack which he was good enough to make upon the whole of the Government system of finance nor to pursue the right hon. Baronet in the defence which he had made of the public service of his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham). He thought, however, that the right hon. Baronet had a little misunderstood the observations of his noble Friend. In the remarks that fell from his noble Friend, there was no imputation whatever against the public conduct or the public services of his right hon. Friend, services which he should be the first to acknowledge, both as an executive officer of the Crown, and as a Minister of public departments. What his noble Friend said was this, that whilst sitting on the Treasury Bench, the right hon. Baronet did not exhibit the same readiness to appear in debate in support of his colleagues, that he now evinced on all occasions to put himself forward to attack them. His right hon. Friend now told the House that the necessity for the perfect independence of the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer was such, that the House ought to mark with its censure any attempt to grant to the holder of that office any civil list pension, or in fact any pension whatever. Now, he should be glad to learn where the right hon. Baronet found any ground for censure in this proceeding, or where the House was to discover the principle which he now, for the first time, heard laid down by his right hon. Friend, and the right hon. Baronet? He had the honour to serve on the same commission with his right hon. Friend (Sir James Graham)—the commission which recommended the alterations to be made in the pension-list—and he confessed that, having so served with his right hon. Friend, he now for the first
732R. Peel:ll"He was quite averse to the proposition: that a popular assembly could never wisely interfere with the patronage of the Crown. There was no instance in the history of Parliament of its ever having wisely interfered with the discretionary power of the executive. An assembly such as the House of Commons was too much governed by temporary passions and feelings for the salutary exercise of such a right. The course of proceeding on the part of such a body would be, that, under certain circumstances, they would give a great deal too much; whilst, under the influence of other considerations, they would be tempted to neglect public services of the highest order."731730729The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 perfectly agreed with the hon. Member for Newcastle, that the report should be printed, and the subject brought under the consideration of the House to-morrow. But, feeling great anxiety for the success of the new act for deciding controverted elections, he wished to call the attention of the House to some other irregularities which had taken place. He understood the report referred only to no notice having been served on those who appeared in support of the sitting Member. But he believed that no notice had been served on the electors who originally petitioned against the return. If he had been correctly informed, the messengers, instead of delivering the notices to the persons who petitioned against the return, had left them with the agent of the sitting Member. He wished to have this matter explained, and therefore, he should move that Mr. Rose, the clerk attending the General Committee on Elections, Stein, the messenger, and Poyndexter, the assistant-messenger, be called to the bar of the House on the next day to explain how it was that the notices were not served on the proper parties. Both motions agreed to.Sir G. Clerk
663 was anxious to call the attention of the House to a matter which was important, because it was connected with the exercise of their privileges. It would be recollected that on Friday evening last the Speaker was directed to issue his warrant for a new writ, for the election of a commissioner to serve in Parliament for Perthshire, in the room of Viscount Stormont, who had succeeded to the title of Viscount Stormont of Scotland. He believed that a writ was issued from the Crown-office, and despatched that evening to Perthshire, which was not in conformity with the rules of the House, as it directed the election of a commissioner for Perthshire, in the room of Viscount Stormont, who had been called up to the House of Peers as the Earl of Mansfield. In the count of the same evening the error was discovered, and a second writ was despatched by the mail on Saturday morning, in conformity with the rales of the House. At election writs were not issued by any officer under the authority of the House, but of the Crown, as the orders of the
663Sir G. Clerk
l711710lll709708l707l706705 commenced by observing, that after the two last speeches addressed to the House, he could not remain longer silent. He could assure the House that if he thought this motion would either directly or indirectly imply a censure upon Sir J. Newport, no individual in the House would give it a more strenuous opposition than himself. Having known Sir J. Newport for very many years, he could not call to his recollection
l711710lll709708l707l706705Sir J. Graham
728l727"That, considering that Sir John Newport was not in affluent circumstances when he thus withdrew from office, this House is satisfied that the grant of a pension to a retired Comptroller of the Exchequer, in circumstances so peculiar, cannot be drawn into a precedent."726"That it appears to this House that the right hon. Sir John Newport, in his official capacity of Chancellor of the Exchequer in Ireland, exerted himself to the utmost to restrain useless expenses, to promote education, and to improve trade and intercourse between Ireland and the other parts of the United Kingdom; that while in the said office he directed, and after leaving office suggested, various inquiries, which led to the adoption by Parliament of measures highly conducive to the better administration of the law, and beneficial to the revenue."725l724lHume:723llllhon. Memberllll722"That this limitation to persons in their distress, or for their desert, not having proved a sufficient check on the grant of unmerited pen-
722et cetera,721The Chancellor of the Exchequer:720719J. Russell:: However pointless, spiritless, and "gingerly," the noble Lord may feel the resolution of my hon. Friend, he has given conclusive proof that he does not consider the speech of my right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham) pointless, spiritless, or gingerly. It seems to have had the effect of completely obliterating the recollection, not only of the services of my right hon. Friend, but of the unvarying testimony borne by the noble Lord himself to the value of those services. Has not the noble Lord said, that the separation from office of my right hon. Friend was one of the most painful in his life, on account of the proof which be had given of the value of those services which the noble Lord thinks it decent now to decry? The noble Lord says to-night that my right hon. Friend, when one of his colleagues, and a member of the Government, shrunk from his public duty; and Such was his expression, after the testimony to which I have referred of the estimation in which be held the services and character of my right hon. Friend. Is there the slightest foundation for the assertion that my right hon. Friend ever shrunk from his duty? Who was selected to assist the noble Lord in his preparation of the Reform Bill? Was it not my right hon. Friend? And will the noble Lord now, with his impressions of reform, deny the services which my right hon. Friend rendered on that occasion? Does the noble Lord deny the services of my right hon. Friend as first Lord of the Admiralty? [Lord 728l727"That, considering that Sir John Newport was not in affluent circumstances when he thus withdrew from office, this House is satisfied that the grant of a pension to a retired Comptroller of the Exchequer, in circumstances so peculiar, cannot be drawn into a precedent."726"That it appears to this House that the right hon. Sir John Newport, in his official capacity of Chancellor of the Exchequer in Ireland, exerted himself to the utmost to restrain useless expenses, to promote education, and to improve trade and intercourse between Ireland and the other parts of the United Kingdom; that while in the said office he directed, and after leaving office suggested, various inquiries, which led to the adoption by Parliament of measures highly conducive to the better administration of the law, and beneficial to the revenue."725l724lHume:723llllhon. Memberllll722"That this limitation to persons in their distress, or for their desert, not having proved a sufficient check on the grant of unmerited pen-
722et cetera,721The Chancellor of the Exchequer:720719J. Russell:Sir R. Peel
 agreed that there was likely to be considerable advantage in making a partial experiment. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman opposite ought to consider well the proposition for having a special cover for the London district, and there could be no objection to its having a general circulation if posted within the district, as was the case with the printed covers now used by Members of Parliament. They must be put into a particular office, but might be carried to any part of the United Kingdom.Sir R. Peel
 said, that he presumed the right hon. Gentleman opposite meant by the twopenny-post district that which formerly was subjected to a twopenny rate, and that which now formed the London district.Sir Robert Peel
 said, that he wished to take that opportunity of inquiring from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when the House might expect to have laid before them the returns relating to the Post-office, which had some time ago been ordered; he wished also to know how soon it was probable that stamped covers would come into general use.Sir R. Peel
696The general favourite, as the general friend; Such age then is, and who would wish its end?""Whose active days benevolence endears, Whose nights congratulatory conscience cheers,"That it appears to this House, that the right hon. Sir John Newport, in his official capacity of Chancellor of the Exchequer in Ireland, exerted himself to the utmost to restrain useless expenses, to promote education, and to improve trade and intercourse between Ireland and the other parts of the United Kingdom; that while in the said office he directed, and after leaving office, suggested various inquiries, which led to the adoption by Parliament, of measures highly conducive to the better administration of the law, and beneficial to the revenue; that after serving for five years in the honourable office of Comptroller of the Exchequer, being then upwards of eighty years of age, and afflicted with bodily infirmity, he withdrew from public life, respected for the unblemished integrity of his character, to pass in retirement the remainder of his days."695694l693692691lllllllll690689l"That it appears that provision was made in the Act 1st and 2nd Vic, c. 2, that the sum which her Majesty might be empowered to grant in pensions on the civil list, in any one year, should not exceed the sum of 1,200l688"That it appears that it was also specially provided by the said Act 4 and 5 Will. 4th, c. 24, that the holders of the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer should be precluded, on his retirement from that office, from all claim to any of the pensions which the Crown was thereby empowered to bestow for civil or political services." "That it appears that the person holding the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer now constitutes the sole check (in lieu of all others formerly existing under the ancient regulations of the Exchequer) on the expenditure of all public monies issued through the Exchequer by the authority of the Commissioners of the Treasury; and it is specially provided, that he should be incapable of holding any other office under the Crown in conjunction with such comptrollership, and should be irremoveable from his office, except in pursuance of an address from the two Houses of Parliament; this officer being thus withdrawn from the exercise of any influence of the Crown over him in the discharge of his functions."687"That it appears that the said Comptroller-general filled the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland during the period of thirteen months only, viz., from the month of February, 1806, to the month of April, 1807. That it appears, by reference to the Act 4 and 5 Will. 4th, c. 24 (by which the granting of pensions for political services was regulated), that no person is qualified to receive any pension on the ground of public duties performed in the highest offices of the state, unless he shall have continued in the performance of such duties for a period of two years at the least."686685l684"That by an act of 22 George 3rd, c. 82, it was declared, 'And whereas much confusion and expense did arise from having pensions paid at various places, and by various persons, and a custom hath, prevailed of granting pensions on a private list during his Majesty's pleasure, upon a supposition that in some cases it may not be expedient for the public good to divulge the names of the persons in the said list, or that it may be disagreeable to the persons receiving such pensions to have it known that their distresses are so relieved, or for saving the expense of fees and taxes on small pensions, by means of which said usage, secret and dangerous corruption may hereafter be practised; and whereas it is no disparagement for persons to be relieved by the royal bounty in their distress, or for their desert; but, on the contrary, it is honourable, in just cause, to be thought worthy of reward,' &c.: That this limitation to persons in their distress, or for their desert, not having proved a sufficient check on the grant of unmerited pensions, this House, in the year 1834, entered into certain resolutions concerning pensions."683682 said: Mr. Speaker, the hon. Member for North Durham stated, in the beginning of the conclusive and crushing speech which he has just delivered, that he was glad the Government had mustered courage to show fight on this question. I would humbly remind him that this is not the first occasion on which the Government has been induced to show fight in the course of the present session. And, Sir, I look upon it as a matter of no small or mean congratulation to the administration of which have the honour to be an humble Member, that after an opposition to its principles, its measures and its existence has been formally announced, more keen, organised and determined than in any preceding year, and after we have heard it stated by authority, that those who carry on that opposition are ready and eager to oust us from our places, and substitute themselves in our stead—that the only topic in the wide range of all our domestic, our foreign, or our colonial policy, which they have selected for coming twice to the charge upon, is the pension which has been assigned to Sir John Newport. I must say that, after all the denunciations which have been thundered against us during the recess—as well as those which were bottled up for explosion after the opening of the session—I do feel relieved and reassured, to find that, of all our large misdeeds, this is the leading and crowning enormity. I do not wish to bandy epithets with the hon. Member for North Durham, with respect to the character of the resolutions which he has proposed, or the amendment which I wish to substitute instead of part of them. I can only say that, if my amendments are what he terms them, pointless and spiritless, anything better corresponding to the original resolutions I cannot well conceive. There is this difference, however, between our weapons, that while at all times some degree of point is expected in the spear with which an attack is to be made, we never look for it on the shield which is used for the defence, and which will be sufficient, in this case, if it can repel a pointless blow. With respect to the whole of that long string of resolutions which have just been moved by the hon. Member, they do seem to me to be of that colour and character that no man need feel much discomposed at the fate which may betide them. With respect to the greater part
696The general favourite, as the general friend; Such age then is, and who would wish its end?""Whose active days benevolence endears, Whose nights congratulatory conscience cheers,"That it appears to this House, that the right hon. Sir John Newport, in his official capacity of Chancellor of the Exchequer in Ireland, exerted himself to the utmost to restrain useless expenses, to promote education, and to improve trade and intercourse between Ireland and the other parts of the United Kingdom; that while in the said office he directed, and after leaving office, suggested various inquiries, which led to the adoption by Parliament, of measures highly conducive to the better administration of the law, and beneficial to the revenue; that after serving for five years in the honourable office of Comptroller of the Exchequer, being then upwards of eighty years of age, and afflicted with bodily infirmity, he withdrew from public life, respected for the unblemished integrity of his character, to pass in retirement the remainder of his days."695694l693692691lllllllll690689l"That it appears that provision was made in the Act 1st and 2nd Vic, c. 2, that the sum which her Majesty might be empowered to grant in pensions on the civil list, in any one year, should not exceed the sum of 1,200l688"That it appears that it was also specially provided by the said Act 4 and 5 Will. 4th, c. 24, that the holders of the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer should be precluded, on his retirement from that office, from all claim to any of the pensions which the Crown was thereby empowered to bestow for civil or political services." "That it appears that the person holding the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer now constitutes the sole check (in lieu of all others formerly existing under the ancient regulations of the Exchequer) on the expenditure of all public monies issued through the Exchequer by the authority of the Commissioners of the Treasury; and it is specially provided, that he should be incapable of holding any other office under the Crown in conjunction with such comptrollership, and should be irremoveable from his office, except in pursuance of an address from the two Houses of Parliament; this officer being thus withdrawn from the exercise of any influence of the Crown over him in the discharge of his functions."687"That it appears that the said Comptroller-general filled the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland during the period of thirteen months only, viz., from the month of February, 1806, to the month of April, 1807. That it appears, by reference to the Act 4 and 5 Will. 4th, c. 24 (by which the granting of pensions for political services was regulated), that no person is qualified to receive any pension on the ground of public duties performed in the highest offices of the state, unless he shall have continued in the performance of such duties for a period of two years at the least."686685l684"That by an act of 22 George 3rd, c. 82, it was declared, 'And whereas much confusion and expense did arise from having pensions paid at various places, and by various persons, and a custom hath, prevailed of granting pensions on a private list during his Majesty's pleasure, upon a supposition that in some cases it may not be expedient for the public good to divulge the names of the persons in the said list, or that it may be disagreeable to the persons receiving such pensions to have it known that their distresses are so relieved, or for saving the expense of fees and taxes on small pensions, by means of which said usage, secret and dangerous corruption may hereafter be practised; and whereas it is no disparagement for persons to be relieved by the royal bounty in their distress, or for their desert; but, on the contrary, it is honourable, in just cause, to be thought worthy of reward,' &c.: That this limitation to persons in their distress, or for their desert, not having proved a sufficient check on the grant of unmerited pensions, this House, in the year 1834, entered into certain resolutions concerning pensions."683682Viscount Morpeth
, the Chairman of the General Committee of Elections, moved "That the order of the 19th of February, for the attendence of panels No. 1 and 2 on the 12th and 16th of March be discharged, and that the petition of George Hooper and others be referred to the general committee of elections."Mr. Ord
773 said, that perhaps it would be
773Mr. Ord
 said, that there appeared to him to be great doubt whether the committee could exercise such a power.Sir Thomas Freemantle
 at the bar, and examined. He was agent for the petitioners in defending the return for the Ludlow election. The messenger Poingdestre had delivered to him two notices—one for the sitting Member, and the other for the petitioners. He was agent for the petitioners—for the petitioners who defended the return.Mr. Coppock
 would at once declare, that he must adhere to the schedule as at present constituted.Viscount Morpeth
 reminded the Committee, that Belfast had petitioned against being included in schedule A.Mr. Litton
 thought, that a different rule ought to be adopted towards those four towns that had petitioned against being included in schedule A, and those who were willing to be included in it.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 objected to the insertion of the town of Galway in this schedule, and stated, that the House of Lords had excluded it from a similar bill last year, upon sufficient grounds being shown before the Committee. He therefore moved, that Galway be expunged from this schedule.Mr. Blake
 seconded the amendment.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 was satisfied, that it would be more in accordance with the wishes of the inhabitants of Galway if that town were placed in schedule B.Mr. Lynch
 thought, that Galway ought to stand in schedule A.Mr. O'Connell
 regretted, that he could not comply with the request of his hon. Friend; but as in the case of Belfast he had evinced an insensibility to the allurements of the hon. Gentlemen opposite, so in the present instance he must prove equally coy when courted by his hon. Friend. He could not consent to remove Galway from schedule A.Viscount Morpeth
 supported the amendment. He believed the inhabitants of Galway to be unanimous in their wish to have that town placed in schedule B.Mr. Dunbar
781 thought the hon. and learned Member could hardly be serious in pressing a proposition so entirely inconsistent with the principle and frame-work of this bill. It was not necessary for him to argue the question. The hon. and learned Sergeant said, that most of the present freemen were Protestants, and that might be so; but, looking at some of their late proceedings in the corporation of Dublin, looking at the vulgar squabbles in which they had been engaged—charges banded about of peculation and corruption—there was at present a dispute, he believed, about the disposal of one Church living, looking, too, at their recent conduct with regard to the learned Recorder, he must say, that a body of men who could treat one of their stoutest defenders as he had been treated, were not exactly the class of persons most fitted to take, the management of local interests. He should
781Viscount Morpeth
 thought, that nothing could be more destructive of the principle of this bill than an amendment like the present.Mr. W. Roche
l said, that anything equal to the profligacy with which the corporation of Dublin had squandered 200,000lMr. O'Connell
 said, that if the returns referred to by the learned Sergeant were correct, he could only rejoice that the Liberal party were so strong; and the learned Sergeant ought not to be quite so sure that there would not be a Liberal majority even in Belfast and Londonderry. He regarded the discussion upon this measure with great satisfaction, because he looked upon it as the last time on which those questions would be discussed in that House. They seemed now, indeed, to be coming to the whispering of a faction, not strong enough to be heard out of that House, and very little within it.Mr. Bellew
ll782 had referred to the only returns which were at his command, and they were the parliamentary returns laid on the table of the House. They at all events gave an approximation to the truth; and if they were not quite accurate, the disproportion was so great, that his argument would not be effected. The proportion between the Roman Catholics and Protestants was as two to one,
ll782Mr. Sergeant Jackson
l., said, the noble Lord had said something about the vulgar squabbles of the corporation of Dublin, but was that the only place where vulgar squabbles occurred. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had charged the corporation with peculation and profligacy to the amount of 200,000l.,Sir R. Inglis
 said—The hon. Baronet seems to have taken offence at the words "vulgar squabbles," which were used by my noble Friend; but the hon. Baronet, I think, has heard words not much more civil used on the part of the Orange Association in Dublin.Lord J. Russell
 was perfectly satisfied that this clause had not been proposed with a view to carrying it into effect. The learned Sergeant could not carry it into effect; but though he acted according to the letter of the arrangement which had been made, he seemed disposed to violate its spirit. He, however was rejoiced to see that the hon. and learned Sergeant bad by his conduct driven away the leaders of his party in that House. It would be much better to oppose the measure openly and honestly than, professing to support the principle of it, to attempt to introduce clauses calculated to defeat its main objects. As to the corporation of Dublin, they had admitted eighty-three freemen between the years 1832 and 1835, of whom, only one was a Catholic.Mr. M. J. O'Connell
 said, that hundreds of the freemen of Limerick had never seen the place, the drummers and fifers of a particular regiment, he believed, on one occasion, had been made freemen.Mr. W. Roche
 said, there was no ground for charging his hon. and learned Friend with factious opposition to this Bill; he had last Session given notice of the same motion as the present, and had only been prevented by an accident from bringing it forward. He believed that the present unpopularity of the learned Recorder of Dublin, which he hoped was only temporary, had arisen from the part he took in supporting the second reading of this Bill; but that hon. and learned Gentleman had together with himself and his learned Friend near him (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) felt themselves bound in honour so to act in consequence of their acquiescence in the proposition, that if the tithe question were settled on a satisfactory basis, they would not oppose the principle of the Government corporation plan.Colonel Perceval
 could not see how it would be just to admit a rabble of 700 or 800 men to vote along with the rate-payers. The parties who paid the rates were those who should alone exercise the municipal right, and therefore, although he had assented to all the other propositions of his hon. and learned Friend, he could not support him in his present motion.Mr. J. Young
776 messenger, called in and examined. He said that he had received notices from Mr. Rose to deliver to the parties in the Ludlow election, and was told to serve them on the different parties. He had not served them. He gave them to Poingdestre, and told him to inquire of Mr. Parkes or Mr. Coppock who were the agents of the parties. Poingdestre told him that he had delivered them to the wrong person. He heard that Poingdestre had given them to Mr. Coppock; but he knew nothing except what he had heard. The whole of the proceedings upon the present occasion were the same
776Mr. Steyne,
 examined. He had received notices to deliver in the Ludlow election. He had to inquire as to who were the agents in the Ludlow election petition, and he was directed to apply for that information to Mr. Parkes and Mr. Coppock. He met Mr. Coppock in the lobby of the House and asked him for information. Mr. Coppock said, if he gave him the notices all would be right, as he was concerned in the petition. He delivered all the notices that he had in his possession excepting one, which was for Sir Thomas Cochrane, he being a Member of the House. The notices were addressed to the petitioners and to the sitting Members. He had himself been for three years a messenger of the House. He delivered all the notices to Mr. Coppock on the 18th instant. He asked Mr. Coppock for information with regard to the agents in the election petition for Ludlow on both sides. Mr. Coppock requested him to deliver them to him, as he was concerned in them. Mr. Coppock stated to him that the trial would not come on. The practice was to deliver the notices to the agents. Mr. Rose did not inform him who were the agents. He had told Mr. Rose, but he did not know how many days ago, that he had delivered the notices to Mr. Coppock. He considered that he had discharged his duty in the matter. He had served notices on the Totness and Cambridge electors, on Mr. Parkes, and another on a Member of the House, who was known to him.Mr. Poingdestre
793 could not agree with the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, that naval officers in that House were not to express their sentiments on the state of the navy. He should like to know where they were to speak their sentiments, if not in that House. He quite agreed with the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton in what he had said as to the expediency of fully manning every ship. All that he (Lord Ingestrie) wanted was, that the navy should be in an efficient state, so as to maintain the honour of our flag. He did not think that British officers and men would under any circumstances incur disgrace, but at the same time he did think that our ships should be manned in that proper manner so as to be in a condition to engage with success whenever they were called on to do so. The condition of the mates and midshipmen in the navy was one which he considered imperatively called for amelioration. There were some midshipmen who were actually forty years of age, and one of them forty-four. Now, he thought that twenty-five was quite old enough for a man to be kicked about in the midshipman's berth without any rank or pay whatever. With regard to the mates, many of those gentlemen were put to do the duty of lieutenants, and were obliged to join the officers' mess, and thereby put to increased expenses, although they were not allowed pay. He was of opinion, however, that no further increase was required in the monthly pay
793Lord Ingestrie
lllll795 suggested that it would be a good plan to have a supplementary estimate to the navy estimates, and to divide in future the expenses of the marines from those of the navy. The charge of
lllll795Lord G. Lennox
796 concurred with the last speaker in the expediency of having all our ships fully manned. He was, nevertheless, of opinion, that what constituted
796Captain Jones
l rose for the purpose of just saying a word or two on behalf of these unfortunate mates. He believed that if the Admiralty persisted in their present system, they would find it matter of difficulty to get young men to enter the service as mates. He wished that the Admiralty would promote 300 of them. It would not cost the nation more than 15,000lCaptain A'Court
 expressed his anxiety that this and the next vote should pass through the Committee that evening. The Committee, however, ought not to grant any further votes until it had before it the report of the Naval and Military Commission. They had been told that not more than another sitting of that commission was wanted to complete its report. The Duke of Wellington, God be thanked for it, was now sufficiently recovered to attend to business, and he trusted that in the course of next week, he would be able to give up a day to the consideration and approval of that report. If any grants beyond those which he had mentioned were proposed before that report was received, he should meet them with every opposition in his power.Captain Boldero
 thought the hon. Gentleman quite right in calling the attention of the House to this subject. It did not appear that there was any error in the warrant of the Speaker, but that it occurred entirely in the office of the Clerk of the Crown. It was quite right that this case, and every other case of a similar nature, should be brought before the notice of the House; and he agreed with, the hon. Gentleman that, attention having been called to it, it was to be hoped that no similar error might arise.Lord John Russell
 had no objection to the postponement of the debate. He wished to give no opinion upon the point. He was inclined, so far as a bias went, to think, that if the general committee could decide the question, it ought to be decided by them. One of the inconveniences of the former practice was, that so many questions were brought for the decision of the House. Questions of this nature could be decided with much more deliberation, in the committee than by the House at large.Lord John Russell
767 in the first place, wished to observe, that he had received no despatches on this subject from the governor of that colony; therefore all the information which he had on the subject was probably derived from the same source as that from which the right hon Gentleman had derived his information, namely, from private letters and the colonial newspapers. He, however, gathered from them a somewhat different conclusion to that which the right hon. Gentleman had arrived at. He understood that the governor had made a proposition to the legislative council of the colony, on the subject of the education of the youth of the colony. He proposed that there should be one system of general instruction to all classes of Protestants, in conformity with the plan acted upon by the
767Lord John Russell,
 replied, that he had received no official information on the subject, but he imagined that it was proposed that the religious instruction to the children of Protestants was to be given in their schools, and that they were to be taught to read the holy scriptures, and of course not excluding them from religious instruction by their respective clergymen. The instruction in the Roman Catholic schools was to be in conformity with the faith the children professed. He, however, could only repeat, that he had received no official information on the subject.Lord John Russell
788 stated, that he was the person who should, properly speaking, have been hauled over the coals by the gallant officer for this transfer, which appeared in the balance-sheet. The gallant Officer stated, and truly, that the right hon. Member for Pembroke, in 1831, blamed the Admiralty for the transfer of any surplus to other votes. He admitted that, according to the rule then laid down, this was an apparent departure from it, but circumstances had arisen which fully justified it in this instance. In the summer of 1838, when affairs bore a more hostile appearance than they had previously done, it became necessary to make some considerable addition to the naval force, which there was no opportunity of providing for immediately by a vote. Since the year 1836, they had been gradually increasing the naval establishments of the country, and it was attended with great inconvenience and expense to make a large increase at once. The course which was pursued was to
788Mr. C. Wood
 thought it would be desirable that this question should be adjourned till Monday, to give time for consideration. He was disposed to think that the committee had not the power of themselves to place the Ludlow petition at the bottom of the list. The cases in which election petitions could be struck out were specially provided for, and this did not appear to be one of them.Sir E. Sugden
792 said, that the manning of our ships was not so complete as that of other nations. If in the late conflict with the Chinese we had had to fight with Frenchmen or Americans, the consequence would have been disgrace to our flag. It was a vulgar notion that one Englishman could beat three Frenchmen; but though that had long been ex-
792Mr. F. H. Berkeley
 observed, that the question was as to whether or not any religious instruction was to be given in the schools proposed to be established for the Protestant children; but it was whether the children of Roman Catholics were to have provision made for their education in their exclusive schools in the Roman Catholic religion, while the children of the members of the Church of England were to be educated in schools from which religious instruction, in connexion with the Church of England, was to be excluded.Mr. Goulburn
 wished to ask the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) a question respecting New South Wales. He observed from the newspapers of that colony, that there had been in the legislative council a measure propounded by the Governor for the general education of the youth of that colony. It appeared that by that measure the Roman Catholic youth of the colony were to be educated in one school, in the principles of their own religion, but that all the other youth of the colony were to be educated in one common school, in which, in order to avoid religious dissensions, no religious instruction was to be given, therefore giving to the Roman Catholics the benefit of religious instruction, but withholding it from the children of parents professing other religions. This proposition had, however, not met with the approbation of the Legislative Council. Now, what he wished to ask was, whether this proposition had been made by the governor in consequence of any directions from the Government at home?Mr. Goulburn
 said, that one of the propositions made by the hon. and gallant officer who had spoken last was reasonable enough. It was quite evident that no reasonable objection could be offered to the two next votes, but he could not agree to the hon. and gallant officer's second proposition, that we should take no more votes upon the navy estimates until the report of the Naval and Military Commission was received. He opined that the Committee would be perfectly competent to decide upon all the navy estimates, even before the report in question was submitted to the House.Mr. Labouchere
789 wished to be informed
789Mr. Warburton
798l797"Events have happened in China which have occasioned an interruption of the commercial intercourse of my subjects with that country. I have given, and shall continue to give, the most serious attention to a matter so deeply affecting the interests of my subjects, and the dignity of the Crown." could not allow the present vote to pass through the Committee without taking notice of a subject closely connected with it. He alluded to the total want of all information respecting the interruption of our commercial intercourse with the Chinese at Canton. Six weeks ago her Majesty, in the most gracious speech which she then delivered from the throne, made this announcement to the two Houses of Parliament:—
798l797"Events have happened in China which have occasioned an interruption of the commercial intercourse of my subjects with that country. I have given, and shall continue to give, the most serious attention to a matter so deeply affecting the interests of my subjects, and the dignity of the Crown."Mr. Herries
799 never recollected anything like the delay which had occurred in pre-
799Mr. Herries
 said, a great inconvenience often arose from the non-payment of seamen's wages until their wages had reached a large amount, and he begged to inquire whether any arrangement was likely to be made by which this evil would be remedied?Mr. Hume
787 replied, that with reference to the motion for returns which had been alluded to by the gallant Officer, he could only repeat what he stated on a former occasion, namely, that the Admiralty felt that they could not be given in consistency with the welfare of the service; but if the gallant Officer, or any other naval officer chose to call at the Admiralty, he should be very happy to furnish him with the information which he required. With respect to the devoting the surplus of one vote to any deficiency in another vote in the year, he could only reply, that it was a practice which had always been followed at the office to which he belonged. He had never heard it com-
787Mr. More O'Ferrall
785l proposed, that the sum of 1,142,504785lMr. More O'Ferrall
 answered, that a regulation, by which seamen received a monthly allowance, had been in existence ever since the time at which the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Pembroke, held the office of First Lord of the Admiralty; but it was a system which had been much complained of by the officers, as producing habits of intoxication. He was persuaded, however, that in its ultimate effects it would be found to be a proper and useful measure. With regard to any further allowance being paid—that was a subject which required mature deliberation, and it should receive his anxious attention.Sir Charles Adam
: That was quite true, but the allowance had been increased since its first establishment.Sir C. Adam
794 was very reluctant to take up the time of the House, but so much had been said on the subject of undermanning the navy, that, considering the station which he had the honour to hold, and his own connexion with the profession, he felt bound to trouble the House with a few words. He had never shrunk from expressing the opinion which he held of the absurdity of war complements in a time of peace. Such a course must be expensive, and was wholly unnecessary. He admitted that some time ago, in consequence of the alteration made in the complement of guns, it was found necessary to review the complement of men, and the alterations which were proposed had been carried into effect in the new ships, the Pique, the Inconstant, and other ships of that class, and also in some other ships, of a larger size. Now, it would be asked, under what arrangement those additions were made? They were made upon a calculation of the increased amount which became necessary to work the guns of the ship. A gun committee sat in 1828, and the Admiralty had had the opportunity of consulting the very best officers who were connected with the navy, and had particularly studied the subject of gunnery. It was only natural that every officer in command of a ship should wish to have fifty or sixty men more, to make a
794Sir T. Troubridge
 said, that statistical accounts had been in the course of preparation for some time past in the medical department of the navy. They were in a state of great forwardness, and he would take care that they should be brought forward as soon as possible.Sir T. Troubridge
 wished to correct an error of the hon. and gallant Admiral, who had answered the question of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. The practice to which he alluded had existed for fifteen years.Sir George Clerk
777 said, that it must now be apparent the very extraordinary and very negligent manner in which notices were served, it being in the power of any party to take those notices from the messengers, and thus defeat the intentions of the House. It appeared that the proceeding with the Ludlow election, which had been appointed for the 12th, must be defeated, independent of other circumstances which had transpired. The House he was sure must feel that the matter could not rest here, and that Mr. Coppock should be ordered to attend to explain why it was that he asked for and obtained from the messengers the notices, and retained them
777Sir G. Clerk
791l.,l.790s. believed a seaman was entitled to two months' pay before he left the harbour, which, with bedding, clothes, &c, and (as the case might be) an allotment to his family, together with his 4791l.,l.790s.Sir G. Clerk
770 said, that after the facts which had been stated by the clerk of the Crown, he thought it would be generally felt, that he was fully justified in calling the attention of the House to this subject. It appeared from the evidence given by the clerk of the Crown, that whatever had been done with regard to issuing the writ had not been done by the Clerk of the Crown in person, but by his chief clerk. It appeared to be the practice of the office, as far as he could gather from the answer which had been given, that on receiving information that a new writ would probably be moved for at the meeting of the House, the Clerk of the Crown at once prepared the writ. Perhaps that was attended with general convenience. It appeared on the present occasion that the Clerk of the Crown had exercised his discretion on the subject, and naturally conceived that the writ to be moved for on Friday would be made out in exact accordance with new writs in similar cases. In consequence of the discussion which had taken place in the House, the regular form had been departed from in the warrant, and so the mistake had arisen. It appeared from the evidence of the Clerk of the Crown, that though the writ was not sent to the Lord Chancellor to be sealed until the warrant was received, yet it was despatched without the warrant having been read. There was another point of some importance as being without precedent. It was without precedent that the Clerk of the Crown, and still more his subordinate officer, should take upon himself to write to a sheriff to order him to return a writ which had been issued from the office. The House had always exercised the greatest jealousy in reserving to itself the discretion of issuing, suspending, or
770Sir George Clerk
 had called the attention of the House on the previous day to some irregularities in the service of notices, signed by the chairman and the general committee. In order to inquire into those irregularities, he should now move, "That Mr. Rose, the clerk who attended the committee, be called to the bar."Sir George Clerk
 did not gather from the observations of the learned Solicitor-general, that, in his opinion, the general committee had authority to suspend the proceedings in the Ludlow petition only. No doubt it would be productive of advantage if they had; but it appeared to him that an order should be made for the purpose by the House itself. The provisions of the act showed the greatest jealousy of allowing the general committee to alter any of the arrangements by which the committees were chosen.Sir George Clerk
 thought it absolutely indispensable to restore to old and good seamen their pensions during their time of service, as the deprivation of them was now an absolute penalty against re-entering the navy. He thought there should be no such thing as a peace complement, and that no ship of war should leave a British port without having its crew complete to the full war establishment.Captain Pechell
775 called in and examined: He stated that he was clerk to the general election committee, and he had received the notices from the chairman of the committees for the parties in the Ludlow election petition; these were notices for the petitioners who defended the return, as well as for the petitioners against the return. He stated, from memory only, that he had received two notices, signed by the chairman, more than twenty-one days previous to the 12th of March. He delivered these notices to the messenger of the House, and directed him to deliver them to the parties in the same manner in which they had been delivered in the last session, as well as the previous session. The messenger had not informed him that he had served the notices upon the several parties. He conceived it to be the duty of the messenger, if he had served those
775Mr. Rose
 protested against the practice which prevailed among naval officers of the present day, of instilling by complaints in that House, an idea into the minds of the men and officers under their command, that they were not equal to the services which they were called upon to perform. He did not believe that our ships were unable to perform the duties which they were required to execute, and he did not believe, although upon this point, as a non-professional man, he spoke with humility, that our ships were under-manned. In all our great naval victories, we had one-third or a quarter less men than the enemies with whom we were engaged.Sir H. Verney
774 said, that it appeared to him of the greatest importance that the course which they took should be consistent with justice to the individuals concerned, and should not be such as to establish an inconvenient or dangerous precedent. He thought it desirable that they should have the opportunity of a few hours' consideration. He thought the hon. and learned Solicitor-general observed that he had not had time fully to consider the act. If the hon. and learned Gentleman had time to express a positive opinion, that opinion would be decisive with him (Sir R. Peel). It was, therefore, with perfect respect for his legal opinion, that he suggested it might be advisable to take some time for consideration. There were two questions—one was, whether the general committee had the power of suspension in this case, which he confessed he had some doubt of. It should be recollected, that their inherent and constitutional power
774Sir R. Peel
d.s.l.sl.d.,s.l.786 wished for some explanation from the hon. Secretary, as to some parts of the paper which he held in his hand, which purported to be the naval balance sheet for the last year. He also wished for some explanation as to the addition to the estimates that appeared to have occurred in the course of last year, more especially as regarded the charge for naval stores, for the wages of artificers, and also for the conveyance of troops, &c. Previous to putting this question, he wished to state, that he had intended to have proposed a motion for returns, which would have given the House adequate information respecting the present state of the navy; but when he was told that the motion would be opposed on the ground that furnishing the returns would embarrass the Government, he felt it to be his duty not to press for them. He confessed that he thought it was very questionable policy to adopt a course of concealment as to the state of the navy of this country. He did not think that any disclosure that the Government could make respecting it could do one-half the injury that the system of concealment respecting our naval force was likely to produce. No one who had not been recently abroad could be aware of the extent to which the feeling prevailed, that the naval force of this country had declined, and it was believed, that it was in such a state, that it was utterly impossible for us to enter upon a war with a great naval power. He could not see why the Admiralty could not follow the example of the French government, which annually made a clear and elaborate statement as to the naval force of that power. If there was any deficiency in the navy, he was sure that the country, and the House, would not hesitate to come forward, and supply any defect that might arise, and if it appeared that, notwithstanding the statements that had been made, we had a large naval force, it would cause the country to be respected by any power that had a hostile feeling to it, and it would command the confidence of our friends. He was convinced that the system of concealing the real state of things must prove deeply injurious to the best interests of the country. He now wished to ask the hon. Member for Kildare explanations as to two points which he found in the naval balance sheet. In the first place,
d.s.l.sl.d.,s.l.786Sir T. Cochrane
 observed, that he should not feel himself justified in going to the Admiralty, and looking over the papers in question, as he could not afterwards avail himself of any information that he might acquire from them there. What he wished for was, that the House and the country should be put in possession of this information in a tangible form. He confessed that the explanation of the hon. Secretary as to the balance-sheet was not satisfactory. The question was not as to the custom of transferring the surplus of one vote to the deficiency of another, or as to whether it was good or bad; but it was a rule laid down by Lord Grey's government, and, if he was not mistaken, declared in an Act of Parliament, and this was a departure from it. He believed that Lord Grey's government introduced the naval balance sheet, with a view of putting a stop to the system. In the year 1831, the right hon. Baronet, then First Lord of the Admiralty, denounced the system in the strongest terms, and said that it was illegal, and if he was not much mistaken, that he had taken the opinion of counsel as to the propriety of undertaking prosecutions for it.Sir Thomas Cochrane
 thought, that from the provisions of the 30th section, the general committee might exercise the power of striking out the Ludlow petition from the list, and placing it at the bottom.The Solicitor General
772London Gazette.London Gazette.771 said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down had called his attention to the difficulty in which the general committee of elections found themselves in reference to this subject, and had consulted him as to the course which ought to be taken. With the permission of the House, he would state what the difficulty was, and what appeared to him to be the remedy. The difficulty had arisen from this circumstance—that the Ludlow Election Petition was an election petition of last ses-
772London Gazette.London Gazette.771The Solicitor-General
 replied, that he had received no official information on those subjects.Lord Palmerston
 said, that if the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had not himself been so long in office, all that he had said might appear natural enough to the Committee; but every Gentleman who knew, as well as the right hon. Member knew, the cares of office, must be aware, that when the question was to produce a mass of papers which were more or less voluminous, and when those papers had to be printed, it was almost impossible for any man to say, that he would bring down the report on those papers on such and such a day with as much certainty as if he was bringing on an ordinary motion in that House. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that there had been no unnecessary delay or indisposition in the office over which he presided in preparing the papers which the right hon. Gentleman wished to see; on the contrary, they should be produced at the very earliest opportunity. With respect to the menaced address to the Crown for the production of those papers, he had only to say that the production of them was not an act of courtesy on his part; it was an act of obedience to the House of Commons which had called for them. He had entertained hopes that he should be able to present them in the beginning of the present week, but he had been disappointed. He believed, that they would be ready early in the next. Whatever impression might have gone forth as to the mode in which our affairs had been recently conducted, the noble Lord would see from these papers, that that had been no reason for the misapprehension to which he had alluded. Her Majesty's Government, instead of shrinking from full investigation, absolutely courted it; but the fact was, that their opponents could not produce the documents which were necessary to justify it.Viscount Palmerston
d.,s.l.s.l. remarked that there was a great increase during the past year or two in the victualling charges. He found from the returns of the price of flour, for instance, that the quantity which formerly cost 1d.,s.l.s.l.Mr. Hume
822 said, he understood from the hon. Gentleman that it was not his intention to raise a discussion on the question of the Corn-laws on the present occasion, but that when he was furnished with the information he desired, he would suffer the discussion of the Estimates to proceed. He would, therefore, furnish the hon. Gentleman with the information he desired, which, as he understood, was merely for the rise in the price of corn and flour, and not on other provisions. He would, therefore, state the rise per cent, in the price of some articles during the present year, above the average of three years preceding the year 1839, distinguishing the rate per cent, of the rise at home,—of the rise at home and abroad; and as many of the ships in the Mediterranean fleet were victualled at Malta; he would likewise state the rise per cent, which had taken place in the price of articles of provision in that island. The increase in the price of wheat was 28 per cent, at home, and 22 per cent. at
822Mr. M. O'Ferrall
 wished to make some observations in allusion to the discussions on the condition of our Navy, which had taken place on a former occasion. He believed that our ships should be always sent to sea with their full complement, whether we were at war or in peace, so that the ships might always be ready for any emergency which might arise, It had been said that the efficiency of the officers would be impaired by their want of confidence in the Government. But he could assert that no feeling on the subject of patronage, nor party or political feeling, would influence the officers of the British navy in the discharge of their duty. His anxious wish was, that active and educated seamen should not be suffered to quit the service, but that, on the contrary, they should be encouraged to remain in it, reserving their valuable functions to their own country, without being compelled to transfer them to the service of foreign nations. It was a duty incumbent upon the Admiralty to increase the number of boys over and under seventeen years of age, by disposing of them among the captains of ships on the home stations. After three years' service these boys returned useful persons. The existing number of 2,000 might be very properly increased to four or even to 5,000. However anxious he was for the increase of the naval force of England, yet he did not wish to increase that force for the purpose of amusing the people of England, nor was he in favour of experimental squadrons; but he believed that ships of war so near as Lisbon or Oporto, would be equally efficient—nay, in fact, more efficient, by being stationed at those places, or at places equally contiguous—than if they were stationed in the Downs, the Nore, Plymouth, or any of the British ports.Capt. Pechell
823 said, that instead of decreasing the vote of last year, he was in favour of a larger vote than that already
823Mr. Plumptre
825824 could not agree with the lamentations which had been uttered by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down with respect to the weak and
825824Lord J. Russell
826 said, he was happy to have received an explanation so satisfactory; the more so as the noble Lord (Palmerston) had stated, that the state of our negociations in the east was such as would not lead any person to suppose, that any speedy reduction in the amount of our naval force would take place in that quarter. Now, he was glad to be informed, that many ships were about to be brought home and paid off, and were not to be replaced; and he had further understood from the noble Lord, that if those ships Were still found necessary to be kept up, the noble Lord would then feel himself authorised to come down to the House of Commons under such circumstances and require its sanction for an increased vote of the number of men. He could not agree to the eulogy which had been passed by the noble Lord opposite as to the distribution of our naval force. He did not consider—looking at the extent of our interests in North America and the West Indies—that there was a sufficient force kept up in those seas to protect our commerce, and to prevent the recurrence of events similar to those of last year. He thought also that it was essential to maintain a reserve force at home which should be available in any sudden emer-
826Sir G. Clerk
830829828l.l.827 remarked, that as to the want of a reserved force, that was not felt in the recent disagreement with China;
830829828l.l.827Mr. C. Wood
831 said, that the three guard-ships now in England were not fit to go to sea as the ships in ordinary. It had been said, that it was absurd to keep up the British navy in such a state as to compete with those of Russia or France; but there was a wide difference between doing this, and maintaining our fleet on such a
831Sir T. Cochrane
 was bound, as a candid man, and as a practical man, to declarthat he never knew a time when the executive department of the Admiralty was better or more ably conducted than under the auspices of the hon. and gallant Officers opposite. With the exception of the better manning of the ships (and this must be done by a call upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer), the country was never better situated in respect to her naval force.Mr. A. Chapman
832 could only say, that it was most gratifying to himself and his hon. colleagues to hear so favourable a testimony to their management of the naval department from such a man as the hon. Gentleman opposite, more especially as he was one who well knew what the maritime service of this country was, and who was go able to judge of the state of the navy. Last summer the activity which prevailed in the mercantile marine prevented the quick manning of our ships; but many fine fellows might be found for the service from the steamboats, crews of landsmen, and others, in the event of a war coming suddenly upon us. It had been boasted on former occasions, that in the year 1829, the squadron which was sent out to bring home our troops from Lisbon had been very rapidly manned; but those ships, be it recollected, were only half manned, and they could not carry their lower deck guns, because had they done so, there would have been no room for the troops. Our guard ships, on the contrary, were much better manned, and they had got their men in ordinary near at hand, who could be received in twenty-four hours after an order being made. It had been made a subject of complaint, that we had not a sufficient force on the Mexican coast; but since then his hon. Friends had taken care to remedy that evil; and it was only from the casualty of their having had a very long passage, that the intelligence of the arrival of the ships had not been received. With respect to the complaint as to ships not being sent out to China, that was not well founded, because, had there been a sufficient force, the ships could not have been of service on account of the obstruction which the monsoons would have offered. As to the charge brought by the noble Lord of profligate promotion in the navy,
832Sir C. Adam
834833Adam. said, the gallant Admiral had accused him of making use of the term "profligate promotions." He had not made use of that word. What he had said was, that the promotions which had been made were by no means creditable to the Admiralty. [Sir C. 834833Adam.Lord Ingestrie
 regretted if his warmth of manner had at all been offensive to the noble and gallant Lord. He meant no disrespect to the noble and gallant Lord, but when charges were brought which were unfounded, the noble and gallant Lord would always find him in the same disposition. In answer to the question as to the Gorgon, he begged to say that she was not intended to carry guns in the way stated when employed as a steamer; but as she had port-holes for ventilation, and as it might be necessary to employ her as a sailing vessel, bolts had been fixed at her port-holes in order that she might, if required, carry guns between decks, and she was now a fine ship of war.Sir C. Adam
 said, he had great pleasure in answering the question which had been put (and not yet answered), by the noble and gallant Lord, with respect to the seamen gunners of the Excellent. That most valuable class now entered for five years, with increased pay; and with a view to keep them in the service, additional pay was given them again to enter for five years more.Sir T. Troubridge
 was surprised that hon. and gallant Members opposite should complain of the size of the present ships of war, when it could not be denied that they were now much better than they were during the late war.Sir J. Duke
 complained of the grievance under which the inhabitants of Greenwich were labouring, from the circumstance of the Crown lands in that district being exempted from the payment of rates, and begged to know if the Government intended to take any steps for remedying it?Mr. Barnard
 said, he could only repeat the answer given by the hon. Member for Halifax last year to the same question. He admitted the grievance, but it was not in the power of the Government to remove it. It was of course open to the hon. Member for Greenwich to bring forward a measure in reference to it, if he thought proper.Mr. O'Ferrall
835 thought it a very proper question for the Government
835Mr. W. Attwood
 was understood to complain of the inadequate wages paid to shipwrights in the dockyards.Mr. Barnard
s.s.836 said, the pay of the shipwrights was not fixed on any arbitrary principle, but on a fair comparison of the wages paid in private yards, taking into consideration the advantages enjoyed in
s.s.836Mr. M. O'Ferrall
 said, that the system of classification was much complained of in the dockyard at Devonport, and the principal cause of that dissatisfaction was, that the highest class was not sufficiently extensive. He trusted that the subject would be fully considered by the Admiralty, and that some means would be adopted to put an end to the dissatisfaction which prevailed.Sir G. Grey
 said, that the system of task-work was employed in all the public dockyards abroad, as well as in the private yards in this country; and he thought that one of the best steps to remove the dissatisfaction which prevailed would be, for the Admiralty to return to the old system of task-work in the dockyards of this country. By that system more work was done for the amount of wages paid than by any other, and he trusted that the Admiralty would consent to reconsider the whole subject.Sir G. Clerk
 said, that it was quite clear, that to secure the best labourers for the public dockyards, they must give the highest rate of wages, or at least wages not inferior to those paid in private yards. It was upon that principle and upon that ground, that the late Chancellor of the Exchequer had consented and pledged himself to reconsider the whole subject. He hoped hon. Members would consider the rate of wages paid in private yards and in the public yards, and they would then be able to decide when they saw the difference, whether it was possible to have the ablest workmen for the public service.Mr. W. Attwood
837ex post facto said, the only assurance that had been given was, that the superannuation allowances would have been taken away in 1833, should be restored, and that pledges had been fully redeemed; for an order in council had been issued which did restore that allowance and even more, for it was made 837ex post factoMr. C. Wood
 said, that the men in the dock-yards did not like the distinction which was made by the classification, and thought that by such a system an injury was inflicted upon them.Mr. W. Attwood
843842l.l.l.l.l.,l."In the year 1805, when there was no hopes of sending a sufficient fleet to sea, the late Lord Melville ordered a contract to be made with the merchant builders for forty 74 gun ships. These ships were contracted for by the Navy Board, at 34l.,l."I may therefore say, with propriety, that the period of peace is the proper time to provide such an ample stock of line-of-battle ships as may prevent the risk of again falling into the hands of merchant builders."841"That at all former periods of peace the efforts of England were unremitting in bringing the navy into a formidable state, particularly between 1783 and 1793.""The number of ships had been diminishing since the peace, that they, like everything else, had been coining to what was considered a peace establishment."840"The navy of England should be at least double that of any other nation.""The great difficulty England has, and her great necessity for having a large navy, is, that that she has colonies in every part of the world, and that we are obliged, in case of war, to send a force to every part of the world where we have commerce, which is every part of the world.""In 1793 we had ninety-one sail-of-the-line, and that these were found inadequate to the early and growing wants of the Government in the formation of squadrons for the various and distant objects of protection and enterprise they had in view."839"There is much talk here about the small ships lately sent to the Mediterranean, and what chance hare such cribs as the seventy-two's, such as Benbow, Belleisle, Edinburgh, Hastings, &c, against the French ships, the smallest mounting eighty-six guns with 750 men—the Hercule, the Jena, &c, 100 guns with 900 men? Should such an event occur as a collision with the French, to say the least of it, they are most fearful odds. Englishmen will do all that may become men; but I trust the eyes of our Government may be opened before we shall have to encounter such a disparity as 100 guns and 900 men against seventy-two guns and 550 men."838 was rejoiced to find that the number of artificers employed in the naval yards was at length about to be augmented, and he even thought, when he considered the present condition of die fleet, that a still further augmentation of their number would hereafter be found indispensable. It had been stated by his right hon. Friend the Member for Pembroke, when he was at the head of the Admiralty, that the force of line-of-battle ships was less than at any period since the Revolution, and he referred to the year 1778, at which period the number of ships in commission and in ordinary was 123—forty-five more than, according to Sir John Barrow's tables, we possessed last year, and he was at a loss to understand why, with an increased and increasing mercantile marine, at once requiring additional protection, and furnishing additional means of affording it, while other nations were sparing no expense to render their fleets more and more formidable, so great a reduction should have been made in the number of line-of-battle ships belonging to this country. This diminution was in a great measure to be ascribed to the abandonment of the system of launching year by year three ships-of-the-line in order to keep up the required number of ships. If that system had been adhered to during the six years which had elapsed since his right hon. Friend the Member for Pembroke had relinquished office eighteen ships-of-the-line would have been launched. But, what was the fact? Only four ships had been launched, and in consequence of this the force of line-of-battle ships was fourteen less at this moment than it would have been if the present Government had followed up the former system. But, notwithstanding that the force of line-of-battle ships was thus reduced, it had been stated by the noble Lord at the head of the Admiralty, in another place, as a triumphal answer to those who talked of the want of new ships, that he could, if necessary, send to sea forty sail of the line, in addition to the twenty already in commission. With re-
843842l.l.l.l.l.,l."In the year 1805, when there was no hopes of sending a sufficient fleet to sea, the late Lord Melville ordered a contract to be made with the merchant builders for forty 74 gun ships. These ships were contracted for by the Navy Board, at 34l.,l."I may therefore say, with propriety, that the period of peace is the proper time to provide such an ample stock of line-of-battle ships as may prevent the risk of again falling into the hands of merchant builders."841"That at all former periods of peace the efforts of England were unremitting in bringing the navy into a formidable state, particularly between 1783 and 1793.""The number of ships had been diminishing since the peace, that they, like everything else, had been coining to what was considered a peace establishment."840"The navy of England should be at least double that of any other nation.""The great difficulty England has, and her great necessity for having a large navy, is, that that she has colonies in every part of the world, and that we are obliged, in case of war, to send a force to every part of the world where we have commerce, which is every part of the world.""In 1793 we had ninety-one sail-of-the-line, and that these were found inadequate to the early and growing wants of the Government in the formation of squadrons for the various and distant objects of protection and enterprise they had in view."839"There is much talk here about the small ships lately sent to the Mediterranean, and what chance hare such cribs as the seventy-two's, such as Benbow, Belleisle, Edinburgh, Hastings, &c, against the French ships, the smallest mounting eighty-six guns with 750 men—the Hercule, the Jena, &c, 100 guns with 900 men? Should such an event occur as a collision with the French, to say the least of it, they are most fearful odds. Englishmen will do all that may become men; but I trust the eyes of our Government may be opened before we shall have to encounter such a disparity as 100 guns and 900 men against seventy-two guns and 550 men."838Mr. Corry
l. complained that we had as much to pay now for pensions as in 1822. The amount was perfectly enormous. It was little short of 4,000,000l.Mr. Hume
 begged to remark, that there were circumstances in which a country might be unavoidably compelled to make warlike preparations.Mr. Plumptre
 of the treatment of mates and midshipmen (not in active service) who, while they got nothing whatever from the Government, were prohibited from making a voyage an board a merchant ship, there being an order from the Admiralty compelling them to appear every year.Captain Bolderocomplained
844 thought that this arrangement was far the advantage of the parties concerned, as it tended to retain them in the service, and prevented them from forfeiting their chance of future promotion. Mates and midshipmen, under these circumstances, had not much difficulty in getting a ship. It was quite true that midshipmen's half-pay was "nothing per day, and find yourself;" but this was
844Captain Pechell
820 did not conceive, that under the act, the order of the petitions could be altered; but he was disposed to agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, that, under the 47th section of the act, the general committee had power, from time to time, to appoint the weeks, and determine how many committees should sit, and the days on which they should sit, and he imagined that it was within their power to make an alteration as to time. That being the case, the learned Gentleman who had last spoken asked, was it necessary the House should interfere? He did not think it was. But as he viewed the motion of the hon. chairman of the committee, it was not proposed that the House should in any way interfere or direct anything to be done by the general committee, but only to interfere in regard to an order made by themselves. The chairman of the committee having stated
820Lord John Russell
819 said, that whatever difference of opinion might exist as to the questions raised on the occasion, they would all admit, that it was of the last importance that a correct decision should be arrived at on the case then before the House. If there should be any deviation from the statute, all the proceedings of the committee would be void, and the most injurious and inconvenient consequences would follow. He differed in one point from his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-general, and that he did not think that the least difficulty could be created by the operation of the 93d section of the act, which referred to the election petitions remaining over from last Session. He thought that the provisions of that section had been strictly as well as substantially complied with, and that therefore the proceedings were not, in any degree, irregular in that regard. That section merely required that petitions pending in the then Session of Parliament should be referred to the House in the order that had been pointed out—that is, before any petitions presented in the present Session. That he believed had been done in the case then under their consideration. He contended that the 93d
819Mr. Kelly
 said, that he did not see in his place the right hon. Gentleman who had given notice of a motion to refer the Inland Warehousing Bill to a select committee, and in his absence he would only say, that he was willing the subject should be taken into consideration by a committee up stairs. He hoped, however, that no time would be lost in moving for, and naming the committee, as it was desirable that the subject should be brought under the consideration of the House as speedily as possible. He trusted, therefore, that he had left it in charge with some hon.. Member to move for the select committee at once.Mr. Labouchere
 said, that if there was no objection to the course, he would himself move that the Committee be appointed, as he was very anxious that no delay should take place. He was quite sure that the right bon. Gentleman did not mean to interpose the Committee for the purpose of delay, and if he imagined that the subject would be more thoroughly investigated by a Committee tip stairs than in a Committee of the whole Houser he (Mr. Labouchere) had no objection to-the inquiry. He hoped, therefore, that he should be allowed to move that a Select Committee be appointed.Mr. Labouchere
 said, that his right hon. Friend had asked him to give notice of a motion to that effect.Sir G. Clerk
Gazette818 stated, that if all the proceedings in this case were held to be irregular, some inconvenience might result, but he thought that under all the circumstances of the case, it would be sufficient if they adopted the suggestion of the chairman of the general committee. With regard to the assertions of the hon. and learned Member for Exeter, relative to the 52nd clause of the act, he did not think that that clause rendered it necessary for them to adopt that course of proceeding,
Gazette818Sir George Grey
817coram non."That all petitions of last Session shall be referred to the general committee of elections before any petition presented in the next Session, and in the order in which they were presented to the House."816 was unfortunately not in his place when the former discussion took place, and he had not had an opportunity of looking into the matter at present. He was sorry that he was unable to recommend any course to the House, because they had got into a dead lock. The House had now parted with the authority which had been given to it on this subject by the law. When the bill of the right hon. Member for Tamworth was brought before the House, he had ventured respectfully to state that he thought it would be better to repeal the 9th George 4th entirely, and pass an act by which Parliamentary costs might be enforced, and at the same time the House should have come to certain resolutions as to their proceedings in these matters.
817coram non."That all petitions of last Session shall be referred to the general committee of elections before any petition presented in the next Session, and in the order in which they were presented to the House."816The Attorney-General
821 was confident of this, that if a new act were necessary to do effectual justice, that act would cheerfully be passed. He apprehended that it was clearly the intention of the House that the petition of the electors should have been referred at the time to the general committee. But by some accident that reference had not taken place. He quite agreed with the noble Lord, that it was a point of prudence and policy to interfere as little as possible with the general committee. The hon. and learned Solicitor-general should remember that the House had intended by the act to take away from itself the temptation to such discussions, involving as they did party and political contests. He thought it, in point of law, much more probable that the general committee had the power to give directions in this case, than that the House had it. He was inclined to think that the committee had the power not to alter the order in which the petitions stood, but to postpone the whole proceedings to such a period as would enable the notices to be given in the case of the first. He thought the wisest course for the House to pursue, would be to remove all obstruction to the free action of the general committee; and if the general committee, on further consideration of the subject, should find the intervention of Parliament necessary to remove the difficulty, they might make a special report to the House on the subject. He should support the motion of the hon. Gentleman, which, he thought ought to be complied with in order to give the general committee an opportunity of
821Sir R. Peel
de novo regretted that the hon. and learned Gentleman did not approve of the suggestion of his right hon. Friend (Sir Wm. Rae), which was to consider all the previous proceedings as irregular, to discharge the order, and then to come regularly before the House again. The hon. and learned Gentleman contended that the House had not done what was required by the act of Parliament, and that this could not be undone unless by legislative enactment. He did not agree in this, although he admitted, that the House had done things in connection with these petitions in such an irregular and informal manner, that they had not complied with the provisions of the act of Parliament. It appeared to him, under all the circumstances, that the best thing they could do would be to commence de novoSir T. Fremantle
811"That the general committee shall not in any case proceed to choose a committee to try any election petition, until they have chosen a committee to try every other election petition standing higher in the list aforesaid, the order for referring which shall not be then discharged, or in which the proceedings shall not be then suspended."810"That in every case in which the proceedings in any petition, inserted in such list, shall be afterwards suspended, the petition shall be struck out of the list, and shall be again inserted at the bottom of the list at the end of such suspension of proceedings."London Gazette"That in case a Member declined to defend his seat, that thirty days' notice thereof should be given in the London Gazette observed, that he had looked into the Act of Parliament since the House last met, and it appeared to him that the proper course to pursue would be to negative the motion of the hon. Member for Newcastle, and to let the panels attend on the day named, when the general committee might pass by the Ludlow petition, and without nominating any committee for trying that petition, proceed to the nomination of the committees for the trial of the cases lower down in the list. The section of the Act to which he thought that it would be proper to refer, to justify this view of the case was the 30th section, by which it was enacted,
811"That the general committee shall not in any case proceed to choose a committee to try any election petition, until they have chosen a committee to try every other election petition standing higher in the list aforesaid, the order for referring which shall not be then discharged, or in which the proceedings shall not be then suspended."810"That in every case in which the proceedings in any petition, inserted in such list, shall be afterwards suspended, the petition shall be struck out of the list, and shall be again inserted at the bottom of the list at the end of such suspension of proceedings."London Gazette"That in case a Member declined to defend his seat, that thirty days' notice thereof should be given in the London GazetteThe Solicitor General
815Gazette"The general committee of elections shall suspend their proceedings in the matter of any petition referred to by any notice inserted in the Gazette as aforesaid, and shall not do anything therein until thirty days after the day on which such notice shall have been inserted in the Gazette, unless the petition of some person or persons claiming to be admitted as a party or parties in the room of such Member shall be sooner referred to them; and the general committee shall make out a list of all election petitions in which the examiner of recognizance shall have reported to the Speaker that the sureties are unobjectionable, and in which the proceedings are not suspended, in which list the petitions shall be arranged in the order in which they shall have been so reported upon; and in every case in which the proceedings in any petition inserted in such list, shall be afterwards suspended, the petition shall be struck out of the list, and shall be again inserted at the bottom of the list, at the end of such suspension of proceedings.""That the general committee shall not in any case proceed to choose a committee to try any election petition until they shall have chosen a committee to try every other election petition standing higher in the list aforesaid, the order for referring which shall not be then discharged, or in which the proceedings shall not be then suspended under the provisions hereinbefore contained, except in the case of choosing a committee to supply the place of a discharged committee, as hereinafter provided, which substituted committee shall be first chosen on the day on which the general committee shall meet for that purpose."814"That the general committee of elections shall, from time to time, determine how many committees shall be chosen in each week for trying the election petitions which then stand referred to them in which the sureties shall have been reported unobjectionable, and the day or days on which they will meet for choosing such committees, which they shall choose in the same order in which the petitions stand in the list aforesaid, having regard to the number of select committees which may then be sitting for trial of election petitions, and to the whole number of such committees then to be appointed; and notice in writing, of the day on which the committee will be chosen to try any election petition shall be given in writing by the general committee to all the parties herein-after mentioned, such time not being sooner than three weeks after the day on which such notice shall be given."813 regarded this question as one of considerable importance. He regretted that he could not take the same view of the subject as his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-general, to whose opinion he attached great weight. He agreed with his right hon. Friend who spoke last, in thinking that it was a matter of some doubt as to whether the whole of these proceedings under the Act would not be irregular; at the same time he apprehended that the motion of the chairman of the general committee of electors was right, and that it should be adopted. He would shortly state his views as to the construction of this Act. Election petitions had been presented from Ludlow and Totness during the course of last Session, and from Cambridge and Ipswich, during the course of the present one. Last Session the sitting Member for Ludlow had intimated to the Speaker that it was not his intention to defend his seat, upon which certain of the electors had petitioned to be allowed to defend it. The petition then before the House was presented last Session, and, therefore, came within the operation of the 93rd section of the Act, which made provision
815Gazette"The general committee of elections shall suspend their proceedings in the matter of any petition referred to by any notice inserted in the Gazette as aforesaid, and shall not do anything therein until thirty days after the day on which such notice shall have been inserted in the Gazette, unless the petition of some person or persons claiming to be admitted as a party or parties in the room of such Member shall be sooner referred to them; and the general committee shall make out a list of all election petitions in which the examiner of recognizance shall have reported to the Speaker that the sureties are unobjectionable, and in which the proceedings are not suspended, in which list the petitions shall be arranged in the order in which they shall have been so reported upon; and in every case in which the proceedings in any petition inserted in such list, shall be afterwards suspended, the petition shall be struck out of the list, and shall be again inserted at the bottom of the list, at the end of such suspension of proceedings.""That the general committee shall not in any case proceed to choose a committee to try any election petition until they shall have chosen a committee to try every other election petition standing higher in the list aforesaid, the order for referring which shall not be then discharged, or in which the proceedings shall not be then suspended under the provisions hereinbefore contained, except in the case of choosing a committee to supply the place of a discharged committee, as hereinafter provided, which substituted committee shall be first chosen on the day on which the general committee shall meet for that purpose."814"That the general committee of elections shall, from time to time, determine how many committees shall be chosen in each week for trying the election petitions which then stand referred to them in which the sureties shall have been reported unobjectionable, and the day or days on which they will meet for choosing such committees, which they shall choose in the same order in which the petitions stand in the list aforesaid, having regard to the number of select committees which may then be sitting for trial of election petitions, and to the whole number of such committees then to be appointed; and notice in writing, of the day on which the committee will be chosen to try any election petition shall be given in writing by the general committee to all the parties herein-after mentioned, such time not being sooner than three weeks after the day on which such notice shall be given."813Sir William Follett
812"That any person or persons claiming to have had a right to vote at the election to which the petition shall relate, to petition the House of Commons, praying to be admitted as a party or parties to defend such return, or to oppose the prayer of such election petition, and such person or persons shall thereupon be admitted as a party or parties, together with the sitting Member, if he be then a party against such petition, or in the room of such Member, if he be not then a party against the
812"That if at the close of the present Session of Parliament there shall be any election petition or petitions before the House, the order for taking which into consideration shall not have been discharged, and for trying which no committee shall have been appointed, such election petition or petitions shall be tried by a committee, to be chosen under the provisions of this Act, and such petitions shall be referred to the general committee of elections before any petition presented in the next Session, and in the order in which they were presented to the House, and shall be treated as petitions on which the examiner of recognizances has reported, &c." said, that it appeared to him, that as the Ludlow petition was presented to the House last Session, it came under the operation of the 93rd clause, which enacted,
812"That any person or persons claiming to have had a right to vote at the election to which the petition shall relate, to petition the House of Commons, praying to be admitted as a party or parties to defend such return, or to oppose the prayer of such election petition, and such person or persons shall thereupon be admitted as a party or parties, together with the sitting Member, if he be then a party against such petition, or in the room of such Member, if he be not then a party against the
812"That if at the close of the present Session of Parliament there shall be any election petition or petitions before the House, the order for taking which into consideration shall not have been discharged, and for trying which no committee shall have been appointed, such election petition or petitions shall be tried by a committee, to be chosen under the provisions of this Act, and such petitions shall be referred to the general committee of elections before any petition presented in the next Session, and in the order in which they were presented to the House, and shall be treated as petitions on which the examiner of recognizances has reported, &c."Sir William Rae
 before the House proceeded to the regular business of the evening felt bound to state to them some circumstances which had come to his knowledge, and admitted of no delay, and which be hoped would receive immediate and attentive consideration. On that morning he received a message from a Mr. Freeman, who, he since understood, was a medical gentleman of the highest character and respectability, residing at No. 21, Spring-gardens. Mr. Freeman stated to him that he was the professional attendant of Mr. Sheriff Evans, and that Mr. Sheriff Evans was suffering under a complaint of the liver. He further stated, that Mr. Sheriff Evans had been used to an active life, and that on undertaking the office of sheriff he could not have foreseen the circumstances in which he had since been placed. Mr. Freeman went on to say, that further confinement would be not merely dangerous to the health but dangerous to the life of Mr. Sheriff Evans; and stated expressly, that he conceived the life of Mr. Sheriff Evans to be in danger from further confinement. Under these circumstances, looking to what the House had determined in the case of Mr. Sheriff Wheelton, he thought that if Mr. Freeman's statement proved to be well-founded, the House must come to a similar determination. He had, therefore, requested Mr. Freeman to be in attendance at the House about five o'clock, for the purpose of being examined; so that if anything which he had now stated to the House were exaggerated or erroneous, it might be set right; and if, on the contrary, his statements were correct, that they might rest on the professional authority of a medical man. Having stated this circumstance, he should leave the case in the hands of the House, fully trusting, as an assembly of British Gentlemen, having commenced whatever measures they meant to pursue for the defence of their privileges, and whatever opinions they might entertain on such measures—that, as an assembly of British Gentlemen, they would never be found unmindful of the claims of sickness or the duties of humanity. If there were no objection, he would move that Mr. Freeman be called in and examined at the Bar.Viscount Mahon
851 hoped that the question would not be brought forward that evening; but if the noble Lord intended
851Mr. Warburton
852 said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, had correctly represented the usual course of proceeding with prisoners convicted of crime. If a representation was made of life being in danger, it was referred to the surgeon of the gaol; and upon the statement of the surgeon of the gaol that a prisoner's life was in danger, there was no case in which there was not indulgence granted
852Lord John Russell
853 said, it must be recollected that this gentleman could obtain his own liberation at any moment, and it would be no disparagement to him to submit to the authority of the House. He thought that such being the state of the case, putting forward the present plea, in the shape in which it was brought before the House, was ludicrous. A man like Vincent, if he could obtain his liberty in the same way, would not hesitate to do so, by the acknowledgment of his offence; but this gentleman need make no such acknowledgment. Let the House be good enough to recollect that one of the last proceedings of the sheriff's had been a perfectly voluntary one against the privileges of the House. There was an attachment in the hands of the coroner, which was not returnable until the 19th of April. It ordered the sheriffs to pay the money in their hands over to Stock-dale; and notwithstanding that they might have waited till the 19th of April, they volunteered to pay the money to Stockdale at once, apparently to furnish an argument to their advocates in that House, that having paid the money once, they ought not to be asked to do it again. The only way of enforcing the privileges of the House was by imprisonment. If
853Mr. O'Connell
 was sorry that the plea which he had put forward should appear ludicrous to the hon. and learned Gentleman; but he would venture to say that it would appear so to no other man in the House but himself.Viscount Mahon
 submitted that the expression of (he noble Lord was not in order. It was certainly exceedingly uncivil.Mr. O'Connell
 had understood the hon. and learned Member to repeat the word ludicrous, and apply it to the proceeding before them. He should now repeat, and the Speaker would correct him if out of order, that he believed such an application would appear ludicrous to no other Member of the House than the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. With respect to the request made by the hon. Member for Bridport, he should only say that he could not consent to any postponement of his motion. He felt that the House should proceed immediately to receive information with regard to the health of the sheriff. With regard to further proceedings, he submitted that they would be in a better state to decide upon the question when they had professional evidence before them. He should, therefore, most certainly persist in his motion.Viscount Mahon
854, in explanation, said the noble Lord had totally mistaken his ap-
854Mr. O'Connell
l said, to his knowledge, Mr. Freeman, Sheriff Evans's medical attendant, had visited him regularly for the last ten days, and he was most anxious that some proposition should be made to the House. He believed that the resolution passed for the relief of the other sheriff was one for which the most substantial grounds existed; that gentleman had since been extremely ill, and been unable to attend to his duties. He knew that Mr. Sheriff Evans was very ill, and for the last few days had been considerably worse. He did not wish to buy his freedom by the payment of 640lSir M. Wood
 regretted that the hon. Baronet, who had just sat down, had followed the unwise course of the hon. Member for Dublin, in going into the merits of the question. The conduct of the sheriff ought not to be mixed up with the question before the House. He more especially rose for the purpose of noticing the expression of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, to which he was almost ashamed to advert—the expression used towards his noble Friend, that he was the most ludicrous person in the House. He thought the hon. and learned Member would not be able to satisfy his own mind of the propriety of having used the expression, and he trusted he would offer the explanation which was due to his noble Friend.Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, that the noble Lord had made a charge which affected his hon. and learned Friend's sensibility. No one would refuse to liberate the sheriff if he were in immediate danger; but the question was, whether he ought not to approach the House by petition, or whether he should be liberated on the statement of a Member of the House, who had not seen the sheriff himself, but taken his information from somebody else, and then brought forward the case without notice. He submitted that, after what they had done in the attempt to protect their privileges, and particularly after the observations of his hon. Friend below him (Sir M. Wood), they ought to require a petition from the sheriff.Mr. Hume
856 said, that they ought to keep perfectly distinct the consideration of the particular grounds on which this proposal was made, from the general question. There might be some Gentlemen who thought that the sheriff had sufficiently expiated his offence to the House, and was entitled to his discharge. Let that question be distinctly brought forward. But nothing could be more discreditable than to seek to get rid of a supposed difficulty, by pretending to release a sheriff on the score of indisposition, unless they were satisfied of the reality, of the plea. He would rather vote for the discharge of the sheriff on the ground of sufficient punishment having been inflicted, than seek to get out of a situation of embarrassment by releasing the sheriff on the ground of indisposition, unless he was satisfied that the indisposition was such as to necessitate the release.
856Sir Robert Peel
 was not prepared to examine a medical man, and he believed that very few persons in the House were qualified to do so. He believed the hon. Member for Finsbury was not present. If that hon. Gentleman was disposed to examine the medical man, he ought to have an opportunity, by postponement of the examination till to-morrow. However, he was not disposed to go against the sense of the House, if it was in favour of immediate examination.Mr. Warburton
857 called in, and examined. He stated in answer to questions, that he was the medical attendant of Mr. Sheriff Evans, and had seen him professionally that morning. His health was very bad.—His life in danger by further confinement.—He was suffering under a liver complaint, and had been for several years.—He had been accustomed to an active life. He (Mr. Freeman) was a surgeon, and had been the medical attendant of Mr. Sheriff Evans for seven or eight years.—He had been more frequently well than ill.—He had attended him professionally about two or three months before.
857Mr. Freeman
867"That this House do now resolve itself into
867ll.The tenths on which amount to £. 240,292
The tenths on which amount to £. 240,2922,402,923
2,402,9231,036,844l.Deduct for livings under 300l.
1,036,844l.Deduct for livings under 300l.£. 3,439,767The total clear annual revenue of the Church, as appeared from the report of the ecclesiastical commissioners was
£. 3,439,767The total clear annual revenue of the Church, as appeared from the report of the ecclesiastical commissioners was
The tenths on which amount to £. 240,292
The tenths on which amount to £. 240,2922,402,923
2,402,9231,036,844l.Deduct for livings under 300l.
1,036,844l.Deduct for livings under 300l.£. 3,439,767The total clear annual revenue of the Church, as appeared from the report of the ecclesiastical commissioners was
£. 3,439,767The total clear annual revenue of the Church, as appeared from the report of the ecclesiastical commissioners waslll.£273,680Leaving a deficiency of
£273,680Leaving a deficiency of130,000Deduct sum proposed for augmentation by Lord John Russell's Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill
130,000Deduct sum proposed for augmentation by Lord John Russell's Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill£403,680
£403,68033,850200livings, from 150 to1354
33,850200livings, from 150 to1354120,150150livings, from 100 to1602
120,150150livings, from 100 to1602201,365100livings, from 50 to1629
201,365100livings, from 50 to1629£48,315l50ll.livings, from 10l.297
£48,315l50ll.livings, from 10l.297
£273,680Leaving a deficiency of
£273,680Leaving a deficiency of130,000Deduct sum proposed for augmentation by Lord John Russell's Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill
130,000Deduct sum proposed for augmentation by Lord John Russell's Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill£403,680
£403,68033,850200livings, from 150 to1354
33,850200livings, from 150 to1354120,150150livings, from 100 to1602
120,150150livings, from 100 to1602201,365100livings, from 50 to1629
201,365100livings, from 50 to1629£48,315l50ll.livings, from 10l.297
£48,315l50ll.livings, from 10l.297l866lllllllla-year.£200livings are underSo that 4882
a-year.£200livings are underSo that 4882100 to 200 a-year.And 1354
100 to 200 a-year.And 1354from £100 to £150 a-year.There are 1602
from £100 to £150 a-year.There are 1602a-year.£100livings underMaking 1629
a-year.£100livings underMaking 1629100400
100400a-year.9080 to353
a-year.9080 to353a-year.8070 to254
a-year.8070 to254do.7060 to317
do.7060 to317a-year.£60£50 tolivings fromThere are 305
a-year.£60£50 tolivings fromThere are 305livings under the value of £50 a-year.Making 297
livings under the value of £50 a-year.Making 297a-year.5040 to172
a-year.5040 to172a-year.4030 to63
a-year.4030 to63a-year.3020 to32
a-year.3020 to32a-year.£20£10 tofrom19
a-year.£20£10 tofrom19livings under the value of £10 a-year.11
livings under the value of £10 a-year.11
a-year.£200livings are underSo that 4882
a-year.£200livings are underSo that 4882100 to 200 a-year.And 1354
100 to 200 a-year.And 1354from £100 to £150 a-year.There are 1602
from £100 to £150 a-year.There are 1602a-year.£100livings underMaking 1629
a-year.£100livings underMaking 1629100400
100400a-year.9080 to353
a-year.9080 to353a-year.8070 to254
a-year.8070 to254do.7060 to317
do.7060 to317a-year.£60£50 tolivings fromThere are 305
a-year.£60£50 tolivings fromThere are 305livings under the value of £50 a-year.Making 297
livings under the value of £50 a-year.Making 297a-year.5040 to172
a-year.5040 to172a-year.4030 to63
a-year.4030 to63a-year.3020 to32
a-year.3020 to32a-year.£20£10 tofrom19
a-year.£20£10 tofrom19livings under the value of £10 a-year.11
livings under the value of £10 a-year.11865"There are in the Established Church ofl"He (Lord Stanley) thought that the pluralities should be reformed, and that the wealth of the Church ought to be appropriated to raise the livings of the poor clergy, instead of being devoted to purposes comparatively useless. He shared this opinion in common with those of every class in society, and one of the first acts of Sir Robert Peel's administration was to issue a commission for the purpose of ascertaining whether, by deducting from the wealth of the large livings and adding to the poorer, the Church would not be placed in a position to be more available for the instruction of the poorer classes of the community."5,6409296,569Bishop of Worcester
5,6409296,569Bishop of Worcester2,2634502,713Bishop of Exeter
2,2634502,713Bishop of Exeter8,2782,87311,151Bishop of Winchester
8,2782,87311,151Bishop of Winchester13,02990113,929Bishop of London
13,02990113,929Bishop of London£££
£££Difference withheld from the Poor Clergy.Paid as First Fruits.Full Annual Value.BISHOP.
Difference withheld from the Poor Clergy.Paid as First Fruits.Full Annual Value.BISHOP.
5,6409296,569Bishop of Worcester
5,6409296,569Bishop of Worcester2,2634502,713Bishop of Exeter
2,2634502,713Bishop of Exeter8,2782,87311,151Bishop of Winchester
8,2782,87311,151Bishop of Winchester13,02990113,929Bishop of London
13,02990113,929Bishop of London£££
£££Difference withheld from the Poor Clergy.Paid as First Fruits.Full Annual Value.BISHOP.
Difference withheld from the Poor Clergy.Paid as First Fruits.Full Annual Value.BISHOP.86473041730622Doddington, Cambridgesh
73041730622Doddington, Cambridgesh484146484267Stanhope, Durham
484146484267Stanhope, Durham3614103616102Winwick, Lancashire
3614103616102Winwick, Lancashire16061100313Chelsea, Middlesex
16061100313Chelsea, Middlesex11023110031All Cannings, Wilts
11023110031All Cannings, Wilts10261102313Bibury, Gloucestershire
10261102313Bibury, Gloucestershire£s.£££
£s.£££Real Tenths.Sum paid as Tenths.Real Value.Valued atName of Living.
Real Tenths.Sum paid as Tenths.Real Value.Valued atName of Living.
73041730622Doddington, Cambridgesh
73041730622Doddington, Cambridgesh484146484267Stanhope, Durham
484146484267Stanhope, Durham3614103616102Winwick, Lancashire
3614103616102Winwick, Lancashire16061100313Chelsea, Middlesex
16061100313Chelsea, Middlesex11023110031All Cannings, Wilts
11023110031All Cannings, Wilts10261102313Bibury, Gloucestershire
10261102313Bibury, Gloucestershire£s.£££
£s.£££Real Tenths.Sum paid as Tenths.Real Value.Valued atName of Living.
Real Tenths.Sum paid as Tenths.Real Value.Valued atName of Living.ll863 said, he rose to renew his motion for a Committee of the whole House on the subject of the first fruits and tenths, for the purpose of making those payments more conducive than they had hitherto been to the augmentation of the livings of the poor clergy. Having on a former occasion shown that, from the first institution of these imposts, the payments were made according to their full amount—having shown that this practice prevailed at the time of the Reformation, and that it was enforced by a strict valuation made by order of King Henry VIII—having further shown that in the time of Queen Anne these payments were conferred upon the Church for the benefit of the poor clergy; and having; shown that the sanguine expectations that were cherished of the vast advantages that would flow to these laborious ministers had been entirely frustrated, he should not again go over the ground he had already traversed, but state, as he was empowered to do, upon high legal authority, that the attempt to make the valuation of the livings upon which the first fruits and tenths were paid fixed and invariable, was inconsistent with the letter and the spirit of the
867"That this House do now resolve itself into
867ll.The tenths on which amount to £. 240,292
The tenths on which amount to £. 240,2922,402,923
2,402,9231,036,844l.Deduct for livings under 300l.
1,036,844l.Deduct for livings under 300l.£. 3,439,767The total clear annual revenue of the Church, as appeared from the report of the ecclesiastical commissioners was
£. 3,439,767The total clear annual revenue of the Church, as appeared from the report of the ecclesiastical commissioners was
The tenths on which amount to £. 240,292
The tenths on which amount to £. 240,2922,402,923
2,402,9231,036,844l.Deduct for livings under 300l.
1,036,844l.Deduct for livings under 300l.£. 3,439,767The total clear annual revenue of the Church, as appeared from the report of the ecclesiastical commissioners was
£. 3,439,767The total clear annual revenue of the Church, as appeared from the report of the ecclesiastical commissioners waslll.£273,680Leaving a deficiency of
£273,680Leaving a deficiency of130,000Deduct sum proposed for augmentation by Lord John Russell's Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill
130,000Deduct sum proposed for augmentation by Lord John Russell's Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill£403,680
£403,68033,850200livings, from 150 to1354
33,850200livings, from 150 to1354120,150150livings, from 100 to1602
120,150150livings, from 100 to1602201,365100livings, from 50 to1629
201,365100livings, from 50 to1629£48,315l50ll.livings, from 10l.297
£48,315l50ll.livings, from 10l.297
£273,680Leaving a deficiency of
£273,680Leaving a deficiency of130,000Deduct sum proposed for augmentation by Lord John Russell's Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill
130,000Deduct sum proposed for augmentation by Lord John Russell's Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill£403,680
£403,68033,850200livings, from 150 to1354
33,850200livings, from 150 to1354120,150150livings, from 100 to1602
120,150150livings, from 100 to1602201,365100livings, from 50 to1629
201,365100livings, from 50 to1629£48,315l50ll.livings, from 10l.297
£48,315l50ll.livings, from 10l.297l866lllllllla-year.£200livings are underSo that 4882
a-year.£200livings are underSo that 4882100 to 200 a-year.And 1354
100 to 200 a-year.And 1354from £100 to £150 a-year.There are 1602
from £100 to £150 a-year.There are 1602a-year.£100livings underMaking 1629
a-year.£100livings underMaking 1629100400
100400a-year.9080 to353
a-year.9080 to353a-year.8070 to254
a-year.8070 to254do.7060 to317
do.7060 to317a-year.£60£50 tolivings fromThere are 305
a-year.£60£50 tolivings fromThere are 305livings under the value of £50 a-year.Making 297
livings under the value of £50 a-year.Making 297a-year.5040 to172
a-year.5040 to172a-year.4030 to63
a-year.4030 to63a-year.3020 to32
a-year.3020 to32a-year.£20£10 tofrom19
a-year.£20£10 tofrom19livings under the value of £10 a-year.11
livings under the value of £10 a-year.11
a-year.£200livings are underSo that 4882
a-year.£200livings are underSo that 4882100 to 200 a-year.And 1354
100 to 200 a-year.And 1354from £100 to £150 a-year.There are 1602
from £100 to £150 a-year.There are 1602a-year.£100livings underMaking 1629
a-year.£100livings underMaking 1629100400
100400a-year.9080 to353
a-year.9080 to353a-year.8070 to254
a-year.8070 to254do.7060 to317
do.7060 to317a-year.£60£50 tolivings fromThere are 305
a-year.£60£50 tolivings fromThere are 305livings under the value of £50 a-year.Making 297
livings under the value of £50 a-year.Making 297a-year.5040 to172
a-year.5040 to172a-year.4030 to63
a-year.4030 to63a-year.3020 to32
a-year.3020 to32a-year.£20£10 tofrom19
a-year.£20£10 tofrom19livings under the value of £10 a-year.11
livings under the value of £10 a-year.11865"There are in the Established Church ofl"He (Lord Stanley) thought that the pluralities should be reformed, and that the wealth of the Church ought to be appropriated to raise the livings of the poor clergy, instead of being devoted to purposes comparatively useless. He shared this opinion in common with those of every class in society, and one of the first acts of Sir Robert Peel's administration was to issue a commission for the purpose of ascertaining whether, by deducting from the wealth of the large livings and adding to the poorer, the Church would not be placed in a position to be more available for the instruction of the poorer classes of the community."5,6409296,569Bishop of Worcester
5,6409296,569Bishop of Worcester2,2634502,713Bishop of Exeter
2,2634502,713Bishop of Exeter8,2782,87311,151Bishop of Winchester
8,2782,87311,151Bishop of Winchester13,02990113,929Bishop of London
13,02990113,929Bishop of London£££
£££Difference withheld from the Poor Clergy.Paid as First Fruits.Full Annual Value.BISHOP.
Difference withheld from the Poor Clergy.Paid as First Fruits.Full Annual Value.BISHOP.
5,6409296,569Bishop of Worcester
5,6409296,569Bishop of Worcester2,2634502,713Bishop of Exeter
2,2634502,713Bishop of Exeter8,2782,87311,151Bishop of Winchester
8,2782,87311,151Bishop of Winchester13,02990113,929Bishop of London
13,02990113,929Bishop of London£££
£££Difference withheld from the Poor Clergy.Paid as First Fruits.Full Annual Value.BISHOP.
Difference withheld from the Poor Clergy.Paid as First Fruits.Full Annual Value.BISHOP.86473041730622Doddington, Cambridgesh
73041730622Doddington, Cambridgesh484146484267Stanhope, Durham
484146484267Stanhope, Durham3614103616102Winwick, Lancashire
3614103616102Winwick, Lancashire16061100313Chelsea, Middlesex
16061100313Chelsea, Middlesex11023110031All Cannings, Wilts
11023110031All Cannings, Wilts10261102313Bibury, Gloucestershire
10261102313Bibury, Gloucestershire£s.£££
£s.£££Real Tenths.Sum paid as Tenths.Real Value.Valued atName of Living.
Real Tenths.Sum paid as Tenths.Real Value.Valued atName of Living.
73041730622Doddington, Cambridgesh
73041730622Doddington, Cambridgesh484146484267Stanhope, Durham
484146484267Stanhope, Durham3614103616102Winwick, Lancashire
3614103616102Winwick, Lancashire16061100313Chelsea, Middlesex
16061100313Chelsea, Middlesex11023110031All Cannings, Wilts
11023110031All Cannings, Wilts10261102313Bibury, Gloucestershire
10261102313Bibury, Gloucestershire£s.£££
£s.£££Real Tenths.Sum paid as Tenths.Real Value.Valued atName of Living.
Real Tenths.Sum paid as Tenths.Real Value.Valued atName of Living.ll863Mr. Baines
lllll870ll1lll.l.l.s.l.l.s.l.l.l.869l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.868l.lll said, that in rising to second this motion, he trusted it was superfluous to state, that he was not actuated by any feelings hostile to the Church, but, on the contrary, by an earnest wish for her welfare. He desired to see an alteration take place, for two reasons—the condition of the poor livings, and the injustice, he had almost said the absurdity, of the distribution of the present impost. As a proof of the necessities of the poor livings, he would only state, that to augment the small livings with the population of 300 and upwards, so that their incomes shall range from 150lllll870ll1lll.l.l.s.l.l.s.l.l.l.869l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.868l.lllMr. G. Knight
871 would not detain the House with many observations on a subject which had so frequently been discussed, and on which so many much more able to form a correct opinion had pronounced against the scheme of the hon. Member for Leeds. The first fruits were really a Popish imposition, and the Pope, like the hon. Gentleman, finding the income very small, and desiring to make it much more productive, attempted to raise
871Mr. Goulburn
 would state shortly his reasons for not agreeing to the motion of the hon. Member for Leeds. He concurred with the right hon. Gentleman opposite in his statement that the value of the first fruits was a fixed and certain sum; and, therefore, if any alteration was now to be made, it must be in the shape of a new tax on the income of the clergy. He did not, however, go along with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that it would be either unjust or impolitic to tax the richer living for the benefit of the poorer clergy, provided the enforced payment was not exorbitant or oppressive. But as it would be in fact a new tax, which on principle was objectionable to many, and unpalatable, as he understood, not merely to the holders of rich livings, but to the general body of the clergy, he did not think it advisable to enter on the subject in the manner proposed by the hon. Member for Leeds. He thought such a proposition, if made at all, should be brought forward by the Government, after fair notice had been given to the general body of the clergy, so that they might be prepared to state their reasons either for supporting or opposing it. Under these circumstances, he could not give his consent to the present motion, which he thought it was the more inexpedient now to discuss, as other measures would be taken into consideration by Parliament for augmenting small livings by deductions from the larger, and for the increase of spiritual aid in places where at present there existed a spiritual want.Lord J. Russell
872 begged to say a few words in consequence of an expression which had fallen from the hon.
872Mr. Harcourt Vernon
 must protest against the doctrine that it was necessary to maintain an inequality of livings in order to induce educated gentlemen to enter into the Church—thus making a mere speculation of the holy ministry. In Scotland the clergy performed their duties in a most exemplary manner, without any of those prizes to look forward to. He thought the doctrine laid down was a most dangerous one, for if men only could be goaded on to the performance of their duty by the hope of gaining these prizes when they attained to those places, where increased attention was necessary, having no more prizes to look for, their zeal of course cooled. It was an unfortunate doctrine, and one that would be well used in the mouths of the worst enemies of the Church.Mr. Horsman
 could not agree with the doctrine laid down by the right hon. the Member for the University of Cambridge. The gross inequalities now existing in the livings of the Church must lead to the degradation of the Church in the eyes of the people. The curates were disgracefully paid, many of them not receiving so much as a gentleman's butler, although they must be educated men. He would cordially give his support to the Motion of the hon. Member for Leeds, who, he thought, deserved the thanks of the country for his perseverance upon this important question.Mr. A. White
l873 replied. He could assure the hon. Member for Bassetlaw, or any other hon. Member, that he would perform his duty fearlessly in that House, notwithstanding the sneers he might be met with
l873Mr. Baines
 might make a long speech against the motion, but as he could not hope to reduce the number from-thirty-eight, he would defer it till another opportunity.Mr. Goulburn
ll hoped the sum would be fixed at 500llMr. Alderman Humphrey
 opposed the motion, as tending to throw suspicion, on the motives and characters of the individuals to be elected by the new corporation. He considered that the bill as it now stood; provided a sufficient check against an extravagant appropriation of the corporate funds, and he objected to the amendment therefore, on the ground that it was as unnecessary as it was offensiveViscount Morpeth
875 could not see that the amendment of his hon. Friend threw any greater light of suspicion upon the officer's to be elected, than the clause itself, which provided various checks; and he agreed in the propriety of giving the Government a control over any extrava-
875Mr. Goulburn
 said, that his only object was to place the salaries appropriated under the new bill, under the control of the Lord-lieutenant.Colonel Perceval
 said, that the effect of this amendment was to prevent the new corporations from re-appointing any of the old officers, or appropriating their salaries without the approval of the Lord-lieutenant; so that the appointment of every officer who had been appointed from the granting of the charter to the present time, would have to be brought under the consideration of the Lord-lieutenant and the Council. In his opinion, the amendment was not merely unnecessary and offensive, but it was calculated to do away with all the benefit of the measure.Mr. Pigot
 hoped, that this clause would receive the sanction of the Government. It was quite certain that the effect of this bill would be to transfer the corporation of Dublin from the hands of one party to those of another. One individual had held an office in that corporation for fifty years, and it would be a great hardship if he were not permitted to retire and receive compensation.Colonel Verner
876 supported the clause. It proved the truth of what he had
876Colonel Perceval
 said, the transfer would, be from a limited number to the citizens at large.Mr. O'Connell
 said, it seems that there is a much better understanding between the hon. and learned Gentleman, and the hon. Gentlemen opposite upon the subject of this amendment, than there is between him and the Government, for I feel great difficulty about the clause. In the first place, it seems to take for granted that there will be in most cases such an entire difference between the parties holding offices in the new corporations and the existing officers; but be sides that, in the next place, the clause appears to be calculated to lead to some agreement or bargain between the different parties in the corporations, by which large compensation will be given to particular persons, in order to obtain the appointment to the offices which they hold; so that a great additional expense will be imposed upon the inhabitants. I think the clause is liable to that interpretation, and that it will necessarily lead to the introduction of other clauses, and I therefore am not prepared to agree to it.Lord John Russell
 hoped, that the Government would not resist the next clause. They had admitted the claims of Mr. Dickinson and of the Sword Bearer and Marshal of Dublin to compensation, and the four junior aldermen of that city, had precisely the same claim. The Lord Mayor was allowed a compensation for his expectancy of the office of president of the Court of Conscience; and each of the four junior aldermen would in rotation become Lord Mayor, as certainly as the present Lord Mayor would become president of the Court of Conscience, if this bill were not to pass. The office of alderman, too, was one of considerable dignity; and that was taken from them by this bill. The compensation would come out of the funds of the corporation, so that the public would lose nothing, and this clause proposed what was only an act of justice to those individuals. He begged to move a compensation clause.Mr. O'Connell
877 considered it useless to press the amendment. The Government appeared determined to resist every amendment; and it was because he felt
877Colonel Verner
ll said, the argument of the noble Lord on the last clause, did not apply to this. Men underwent considerable expense in order to arrive at the station which he had now, for the first time, heard the hon. and learned Member for Dublin describe as an honourable situation. They must have served the office of sheriff, or paid a fine of 400llColonel Perceval
 said, that the claim now put forward, admitted of considerations quite different from those which affected the other cases to which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had alluded, and in which it clearly appeared that the parties had an insurable interest in the offices which they held. The Government, after much consideration, had determined to accede to the clause under certain limitations. He proposed to amend the clause by providing that it should be lawful for the town council to grant such sum by way of compensation to the four junior aldermen of the city of Dublin as to the town council or to the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury should seem fit; but with this further limitation, that in case they should have received or acquired a title to any sum or benefit which ought justly to be taken into account in estimating such compensation, then such sum or benefit should be considered as extinguishing their claim or diminishing its amount.Mr. Pigot
 wished to know, whether it was intended by that clause to give the aldermen an appeal to the commissioners of the Treasury? [Mr. Pigot: "Yes."] If that were so, he did not know that he could quarrel with that limitation; but he was afraid of the generality of the terms in the latter proviso—was it confined to pecuniary benefit?Mr. O'Connell
 conceived, that the aldermen had no claim whatever, and therefore he should oppose the motion, however amended, and divide the committee.Mr. Hutton
 wished to ask the noble Lord a question relating to a matter which was now exciting the greatest interest,—he meant the collision between the civil and ecclesiastical courts of Scotland, which had already led to consequences which every one deplored. Was it the intention of Government, to introduce a measure for the settlement of that question; and, if it was, at what period was it the noble Lord's intention to state the outline of that measure?Mr. Colquhoun
860 said, that an impression had gone abroad that the noble Lord had stated to a deputation from the church of Scotland that it was the intention of her Majesty's Government, at an early period, to announce to the deputation, not only that they would bring in a measure, but what the outlines of that measure might be. Such an impression had unquestionably been received by the deputation. He was now anxious to ascertain if that impression was erroneous, and if her Majesty's Government, having had the ques-
860Mr. Colquhoun
 of the Exchequer thought the claimant might much better employ his time than in repeating his attempts, from year to year, to obtain, under such a pretext, public money from the House of Commons. There were not the least grounds for the claim, only made, be it observed, in the year 1829, though the facts on which he founded his claim took place as far back as the year 1822. An inquiry by the proper authorities had been instituted under different Governments, which negatived the claims; it therefore became his duty, as the guardian of the public purse, to oppose the motion.The Chancellor
 said, that as it had been notified to him by her Majesty's Ministers, that it was not their intention to oppose the motion of which he had given notice, he would not detain the House by any statements. He had so often obtained the indulgence of the House in bringing forward this question, that he would not unnecessarily trespass on their attention. He therefore moved, "That a select committee be appointed to inquire into the operation of the act for the regulation of mills and factories, and to report their opinion thereon to the House."Lord Ashley
 answered that the impression was certainly a mistaken one. What he stated to the deputation was, that Government was endeavouring to frame a measure upon the subject, but that he would not bring forward a measure if Government was not satisfied it would be an effectual measure. If they had not a satisfactory measure to propose, they would state to the deputation that they did not intend to bring forward any measure.Lord J. Russell
: The question is a very important one, and is under the consideration of Government with the view of taking such measures as may be satisfactory.Lord J. Russell
 said, that if he intended to bring forward a measure he should be ready to give notice of it, and he would also give the earliest possible information if such was not his intention.Lord J. Russell
861 was happy to concur in this committee, and he hoped that all
861Mr. Hindley
858, seeing the President of the Board of Trade in his place, wished to ask him respecting a proceeding which took place at a late hour last night, of which, although the right hon. Gentleman had given some explanation to him in private, he thought it was also due to the House that the explanation should be public. The right hon. Member had carried the second reading of the Inland Warehousing Bill, and he had given notice that he should move for a select committee on the general question, to which the bill should be referred. He remained in the House until 10 o'clock at night, but, understanding that the navy estimates were likely to last, he quitted the
858Mr Goulburn
859 observed that the right hon. Gentleman had made two distinct complaints. The first was, that after he had given notice of the appointment of a select committee on the subject of inland bonding warehouses, and had left the House without making the motion, he had taken the liberty of making it for him. Nothing was further from his intention than to do what was unfair. Could he have entertained the smallest doubt of the right hon. Gentleman's acquiescence, he should not have ventured to do it. He had stated that it was of the greatest importance that on an early day an inquiry into this subject should take place. He appealed to Gentlemen opposite whether he did not say to the right hon. Gentleman's friend, "will you have the goodness to move the committee for your right hon. Friend?" The right hon. Gentleman intimated that he could not do it. That was the reason why he did move it. He now came to the circumstance of having put on the votes the list of the names of the committee. He felt that if he had done that he should have acted contrary to the usual courtesy, and contrary to the express understanding which he had come
859Mr. Labouchere
 thought that the lapse of time between the capture of the vessel and the period when he, on his return from the West Indies, first made his claim, ought not in fairness to be permitted to defeat the justice of his demand.Mr. Warburton
 said, the capture of the vessel in question was entirely attributable to Mr. Dillon's attack upon her, and forcing her thereby to take refuge in Kinsale harbour, which ended in the condemnation of the vessel. He should, under the circumstances, conceive it his duty to press his motion to a division.Sir F. Burdett
* rose to move the consideration of the petition of John Dillon, for prize-money, for the capture of a smuggling vessel, which the petitioner alleged, although not actually captured by him, had been taken through his instrumentality. The hon. Baronet referred to the facts of the case,*Sir F Burdett
 hoped that as soon as the mind of hon. Majesty's Government was made up, whether they would or would not introduce a legislative measure, they would make a communication to the House, that the House might be apprised of it at as early a period as any deputation from Scotland could be apprised; because he had understood, and he had answered a number of letters to that effect, that her Majesty's Government did intend the settlement of this question by means of legislative provision, and that therefore, he would suspend his opinion until he had an opportunity of considering the measure they might propose. He now understood that the noble Lord had given no assurance to bring forward a legislative enactment. Of course he was in error in common with many other persons.Sir R. Peel
 said, that as the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had alluded to an advertisement, purporting to come from the sheriff, as a candidate for the representation of the borough of Lewes, he could not help reminding the noble Lord of a circumstance which, to his own mind, afforded a strong proof that the advertisement was not genuine, but a forgery, namely, that the hon. Baronet (the Member for Buckingham) had that day moved for a new writ in the room of Viscount Cantilupe, who had accepted the Chiltern Hundreds, and had gone to Lewes to present himself as a candidate for the representation of that borough.Sir W. James
 was of opinion, that they ought to follow the example set them by the courts of justice. If a man were sentenced to imprisonment or transportation, the punishment was never remitted on account of the state of his health. The sheriff was now suffering for a violation of the law. The privileges of Parliament stood upon the same footing as the laws of the land.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that the courts did usually suspend or remit punishment when a strong case was made out.The Lord Advocate
895894 said, that whatever might be the practice in that part of the United Kingdom, with which his right hon. Friend, the Lord Advocate, was more immediately connected, it was not the practice here, but the prerogative of the Crown might be exercised for that purpose, at the same time that it never was exercised without testimony being given of a very sufficient nature as to the fact. The mere statement that the constitution of a prisoner was in danger of being impaired by further confinement did not constitute such grounds as would be thought sufficient to justify a Minister in advising the Crown to remit the punishment. In the case of William Lovett, who was confined in Warwick gaol, the surgeon of the prison stated, that he thought there was some danger in his further confinement;
895894Lord J. Russell
884 said, that rather than the House should go to a division on this question, he would accede to the motion; but he was at the same time ready to declare, as he did before, that his opinion was against calling in Dr. Chambers. He thought it, however, very desirable that the House should not divide.884Lord J. Russell
 thought there was no necessity for this proceeding. It appeared to him, that the evidence which had been taken yesterday was fully sufficient to enable the House to decide upon the merits of the question brought forward by the noble Lord. He certainly was not previously acquainted with the name of Mr. Freeman, but he was told, that he was a gentleman of known professional experience. That gentleman had yesterday stated various circumstances showing, undoubtedly, that Mr. Sheriff Evans was afflicted with indisposition. Nothing, however, had been stated to show that his life would be placed in any immediate danger by further confinement, nor had any thing been stated to justify the extraordinary step which the House had been called upon to take by ordering his release. Besides what he thought the conclusive evidence which had been given in that House, further evidence was afforded of the impropriety of releasing the sheriff on the score of ill health, by an advertisement which had appeared in the newspapers, in which that gentleman stated, that he was quite ready to go down at once and canvass the electors of Lewes. He feared, that if the House were to go any further into the circumstances of the case, no ground would be shown for his release, and therefore, that the inquiry could be injurious to that gentleman. He must say, that he did not think the House could order his release upon the grounds which had been stated, without compromising its privileges, and for his own part, he saw no reason for going any further.Lord J. Russell
 called him to order. He apprehended that the hon. Baronet could scarcely be allowed to read a newspaper in the House.The Speaker
 observed, that upon a former occasion when the noble Lord who spoke last addressed the House on the subject of the sheriffs' confinement, he declared his unwillingness to allow the prisoners the use of pen, ink, or paper, and now he recommended their being instantly sent off to the country. He (Colonel Sibthorp) hoped, that the House would agree to no other proposition than the immediate release of Mr. Sheriff Evans. His continued imprisonment would be a disgrace to the country, his ever having been sent to prison was a disgrace to the House, and, above all, a disgrace to that part of the House which called itself liberal. Sheriff Evans had been kept in custody by the exercise of an unmanly power, and he only regretted, that he had not a vote for Lewes, as he felt perfectly assured that the return of Mr. Evans would do honour to any constituency.Colonel Sibthorp
888 wished to call the attention of the House to a very remarkable discrepancy in the evidence of the two medical men who had been under examination, and which appeared to have escaped the noble Lord who had moved, and the hon. and learned Gentleman who had seconded his motion. Mr. Freeman stated on Tuesday, that Mr. Sheriff Evans was very bad with a disease of the liver. What said Dr. Chambers that day? That
888Mr. Horsman
886885 begged to second the motion. He could not but view the evidence given on the previous night, as well as on that evening, as entitled to the very gravest consideration. It was stated by Mr. Freeman, that he believed if Mr. Sheriff Evans were confined longer, his life would be endangered. Now, the probability was, that Mr. Freeman was not so well known to several Members of that House as the very eminent physician who was last called in. He felt bound to say concerning Mr. Freeman, that he knew him to be a gentleman of extensive practice, and of eminence in that practice. His declaration, that any continuance of the imprisonment; of the sheriff, would be prejudicial to the health, had been substantially confirmed by Dr. Chambers. If the House then was satisfied that under prolonged confinement that which was now only a disorder or derangement of the bodily functions would be converted into a permanent disease, and therefore, have a tendency to shorten his life, he asked whether the House, under the circumstances in which it was placed with respect to Mr. Sheriff Evans, would feel itself justified in longer detaining him? He submitted, that this was not a case in which further detention was necessary to the maintenance of the dignity of the
886885Mr. Kelly
Mente quatit solida."Non vultis instantis tyranni,Non civium ardor prava jubentium,"Justum et tenacem propositi virum, had that morning seen Mr. Sheriff Evans, and he could state that Mr. Freeman had not communicated to the sheriff his intention of making an application for his discharge, but had made it on his own judgment of what he deemed right and necessary for the preservation of that gentleman's life. There was now another medical gentleman in attendance, who, if called to the bar, would give his opinion to the House. He would not, however, allow the House to suppose that Mr. Sheriff Evans had altered, or was at all likely to alter, the opinion which he conscientiously held. He did not brave the House, he respected it, as every British freeman did, but having formed the opinion that the law of the land was supreme, he was sure, that whatever course the House might take, Mr. Evans would never give way one inch.
Mente quatit solida."Non vultis instantis tyranni,Non civium ardor prava jubentium,"Justum et tenacem propositi virum,Mr. Goring
 wished to ask the noble Lord, the Member for Hertford, whether, when he made the motion which he brought before the House yesterday, he was aware that Mr. Sheriff Evans was going to offer himself as a candidate for Lewes, and whether, as we understood, the noble Lord had ever seen the address of that gentleman in any other form than that in which it now appeared?Mr. Lambton
 observed, that the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, was very fond of attributing a want of sympathy to hon. Members on the Ministerial side of the House, and of talking about a tyrant majority. He did not observe, however, any sympathy manifested on the opposite side for John Thorogood, who was imprisoned for not paying church-rates by a tyrant church.Colonel Salwey
 remarked, that the extraordinary sympathy displayed by the hon. Member for John Thorogood might be accounted for by the fact, that the hon. Member was himself the defendant in a suit for the subtraction of church-rates, and that, as far as he was informed, the hon. Member had not the slightest chance of succeeding in it.Dr. Nicholl
 observed, that they could not hope to witness the recovery of Mr. Sheriff Evans unless he was unshackled in mind as well as free in person, and he surely could never feel himself really free so long as he was attended by a messenger of that House.Mr. Plumptre
ad misericordiam remarked, that if the surgeon had yesterday been of opinion that the sheriff's life was really in danger, Dr. Chambers should have been called in before. He could not but think that his noble Friend (Lord Mahon) was premature in bringing forward the present motion, which hardly consulted the dignity of the sheriff. These appeals ad misericordiamMr. Milnes
882 did not think, that the dignity of the House would be at all
882Sir A. Dalrymple
 said, that before the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down rose, he was about to submit a new motion to the House. With his right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth, he had come down to the House with his mind made up, that he could not, upon the statements of Mr. Freeman, unsupported by further medical evidence, vote for the liberation of the sheriff. But, as he had known Mr. Freeman for a long time as a medical attendant, he must really offer to the House his testimony on that gentleman's great respectability. Having, however, given his most careful attention to his evidence, he did not think it sustained the necessity for the immediate liberation of Mr. Sheriff Evans. At the same time, after what had fallen from the hon. Member who spoke last, he must say, that the examination of Dr. W. Chambers was not, to his mind, full and satisfactory. He had imagined that some further inquiries would be made by some hon. Gentleman more competent than himself to examine a medical witness. He, therefore, did not rise to put any question, and as the House was by no means satisfied with the evidence as it now stood, it was his earnest desire that Dr. Chambers should be recalled. He therefore moved as an amendment, that he be recalled, for the purpose of a more full and particular examination. The House could not err in referring for information to an authority so high and impartial.Sir J. Graham
897 said, the result of the
897Sir J. Graham
Member:habeas corpus.887"Visited with imprisonment, and deprived of that personal liberty which has ever been the birthright of Englishmen, for no crime but that of having, in obedience to the laws and observance of my oath, discharged the duties of the high office of sheriff of Middlesex, I feel no apology will be necessary for not paying my respects to you in person upon this occasion." said, he would at once bow to the admonition of the Speaker, and quote from recollection the first lines of the second paragraph of the address in question:—
Member:habeas corpus.887"Visited with imprisonment, and deprived of that personal liberty which has ever been the birthright of Englishmen, for no crime but that of having, in obedience to the laws and observance of my oath, discharged the duties of the high office of sheriff of Middlesex, I feel no apology will be necessary for not paying my respects to you in person upon this occasion."Sir R. Inglis
The Times rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the noble Lord to the advertisement to which allusion had been so frequently made. The hon. Baronet was proceeding to read it from The TimesSir R. Inglis
881880 said, that when he heard the noble Lord objecting to the motion that Dr. Chambers be called in, he thought the natural and necessary consequence would he, that the noble Lord would advise that Mr. Sheriff Evans should be immediately discharged. Bat the noble Lord says, "I am satisfied from the evidence, that the party is not in a state, in which he ought to be discharged. We ought to keep him
881880Sir R. Inglis
883 wished to act in this matter as far as was possible in a judicial manner. He had expected that the subject on which he should have had to decide that night was the question, whether the evidence which had been already given at the bar was sufficient to induce him to liberate the sheriff. He had given every attention to that evidence, and he had come to the House to discharge the painful duty of saying, that in his opinion, the sheriff was not entitled to his liberation. Unexpectedly, he found himself called upon to decide another question, whether Dr. Chambers should be called in? Now, considering that the House had on two former occasions, in the case of Mr. Sheriff Wheelton, and yesterday in the case of Mr. Sheriff Evans, permitted evidence to be given of the state of their health, considering that a professional opinion had already been given, and that the case was rather of a medical than a surgical nature,
883Sir R. Peel
893892 said, he should address himself singly to the question which now properly came under the consideration of the House. The question which the present motion brought before them was not whether Mr. Sheriff Evans should be discharged on merits, neither was it a proposition, that he should be discharged on the ground that the punishment which he had already endured was commensurate with his offence, but whether he ought now to be discharged on the score of ill health. He would take the liberty of repeating that which he had previously said in reference to this question—namely, that it would not be creditable to the House to proceed upon one ground and use it as a pretext, while they were really influenced by considerations arising out of another. If Mr. Sheriff Evans ought to be discharged upon merits, let it be done forthwith, if he ought to be discharged because he had already endured sufficient punishment, let him no longer be detained, but if be were to be liberated on the first or the second of these grounds, let not the third be assigned as
893892Sir R. Peel
891890889 said, that before the motion was withdrawn, and the House determined to adopt the course which the right hon. Baronet had suggested, he wished to say it appeared to him that the House would involve itself in very consi-
891890889Viscount Howick
 said, it appeared there was nothing pressing, and he had therefore abstained from making his motion, but he might, perhaps, be induced to do so after considering the evidence.Lord Howick
 said, he thought the evidence which had been now given tended strongly to confirm and recommend the original motion which he had proposed. The evidence of both the medical authorities fully justified him in that motion, and he should therefore again submit to the House that Mr. Sheriff Evans be forthwith discharged.Viscount Mahon
 said, he would most readily withdraw his motion for the present, in accordance with the suggestion and amendment of the right hon. Baronet.Viscount Mahon
 said, the evidence which had now been received at the bar of the House tended to show that a further continuance of the confinement of Mr. Sheriff Evans might convert into a dangerous disease the present defective state of health of that gentleman. He considered the statements of Dr. Chambers to be, therefore, in corroboration and confirmation of the evidence which the House received on the previous day. He could not believe that the House would incur the responsibility of any danger arising even to the health, much less to the life, of any person whom it had committed into custody; and under these circumstances, and feeling that he should not exceed the grounds furnished by the evidence which had been offered, he would now move, that in consideration of the evidence given by Mr. Joseph Freeman, surgeon, and Dr. W. Chambers, physician, Mr. Sheriff Evans be forthwith discharged from the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms.Viscount Mahon
The Times would answer both the questions of the hon. Member most readily. The only intimation which he had received of the sheriff's intentions was by reading his address in The TimesViscount Mahon
879 wished to make a communication to the House relative to the case which he had brought under their consideration yesterday. He had been informed, that Mr. Freeman had felt it desirable to obtain the benefit of another medical opinion, and that Mr. Sheriff Evans bad that day received a professional visit from Dr. Chambers, who was now in attendance. If, therefore, it was the pleasure of the House to examine that gentleman, he would move that he should be called in. He had not himself seen Dr. Chambers, but he could not avoid feeling, that Dr. Chambers might be able to furnish the House with important evidence. He had
879Viscount Mahon
 begged the right hon. Gentleman's pardon, but he had misapprehended the purport of his first question. His question did not relate to the rate of postage on the other side of the water, but to the charge to and from Dover in this country, and he saw no reason why the same rate should not be paid in all cases.Mr. H. Fitzroy
d. wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the subject of the new postage regulations. He found that if a letter were sent to Dover, it was charged a penny; but if the letter were sent to Paris, the postage as far as Dover was charged as formerly, 10d.Mr. Fitzroy
But the punishment of death was afterwards introduced.An Hon. Member—
925Luke's iron crown, and Damien's bed of steel.""The lifted axe, the agonising wheel,lex lalionis924923922primâ facieonus probandi921Salurnalia"This small experiment has been made without any diminution of the security of the lives and properties of men. Two hundred thousand men have been governed for seven years without a capital punishment, and without any increase of crimes."920It was introduced after the French revolution, but he had a high authority for saying, that the crime of assassination was more rare before the re-introduction of the capital punishment than afterwards. This testimony was given by Berlinghieri, who expressly stated that "assassination of all sorts had been much less frequent during the period of mitigation than since capital punishment had been revived."925Luke's iron crown, and Damien's bed of steel.""The lifted axe, the agonising wheel,lex lalionis924923922primâ facieonus probandi921Salurnalia"This small experiment has been made without any diminution of the security of the lives and properties of men. Two hundred thousand men have been governed for seven years without a capital punishment, and without any increase of crimes."920Mr. Ewart.—
939938 said, in rising to second the motion of his right hon. Friend, the only difficulty he felt was, that the subject had been so exhausted by its mover, that very little remained for him to add to what had been already said. He could not forbear, however, making some comment
939938Mr. Hobhouse
 was of the same opinion; as that entertained by the hon. Member for Kent. He believed, that they were only fulfilling their duty in obeying the command conveyed in the text of scripture already quoted, that "Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed." The only course which he could conscientiously pursue was to oppose the motion.Mr. Fitzroy
945944 did not think the right hon. Baronet opposite had paid himself any great compliment, when he said, that when it was not necessary be would not be for putting a man to death. He should wish to know who it was that would? He would submit to the hon. Baronet, that he could have no right to put a man to death unless it were absolutely necessary, for if he did it would be murder. Now, what the noble Lord, and the right hon. Gentleman, and the right hon. Baronet, had to prove was, that it was necessary to put a man to death for murder—the burden rested on them. They ought to be able to demonstrate its necessity, if it were demonstrable; for those who were for the motion had already shown that every modification of the law of capital punishments had been followed by a diminution of crime. Now that was a consolatory fact. The only proofs admissible were from experience to probabilities, that those things which had happened would occur again. And what had happened already? Why in every country in which punishment by death had been diminished, that every crime, including murder, had also decreased. And with these diminutions had also diminished the disposition of the human mind to commit murder, for thus you mitigated the heart of man; the more you legislated in a spirit of humanity, the more you induced mankind to respect each other, and to spare each other's blood. The right hon. Gentleman had argued, that though they had been so far successful, that was no reason they should expect to succeed if they abolished capital punishments. But they had experience entirely on their side, and this fact authorized them to assume that the probabilities were also with them. References had been made to texts from Scripture. He did not consider this a fit arena for such discussions; for there were in that House men of different persuasions, who had been taught to put different constructions upon the same passages. Moreover, those Gentlemen who referred to those Scriptures were inconsistent, for according to those, one life must be taken
945944Mr. O'Connell
locus slandi.977976E. Sugden.Hear, from975974973972971 had not at any previous time felt justified in trespassing on the attention of the House, even by a single observation on the subject of privilege, but had sat during almost every discussion a silent but by no means inattentive or un-anxious auditor of what had taken place. The present time, the hour of the night, and the deference which he felt for the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, admonished him to be as short as possible in stating to the House simply the grounds of the vote he was about to give in favour of the measure which the noble Lord had proposed to introduce. He was well aware that the motion was liable to attack from both the one and the other side of the House. He had not listened to the discussions, and still more he had not attended the Committee which had been sedulously and laboriously investigating the case up stairs, without perceiving distinctly how many plausible arguments, how many sound reasons might be urged on the one side and the other; and how important it was, for the best interests of the country, that they should come to a sound conclusion, free from passion and prejudice, on the subject; and, at the same time, how difficult it was, nay, how daily and hourly it was rendered more difficult, by circumstances pressing upon them, irritating their feelings, and warping their judgments, to come to a sound, unprejudiced and impartial conclusion. The noble Lord had been attacked by Gentlemen sitting upon both sides of the House, but upon most opposite grounds, and arguments of the most conflicting nature had been made use of. The noble Lord's proposition had been opposed alike by those who wished to preserve, and those who wished to abandon the privilege of publication, and it was really most difficult to frame arguments to meet the opposite views of Gentlemen with such different notions. But he confessed at once, without any hesitation, that he felt as strongly as the hon. and learned Member could do, the absolute necessity of maintaining the privilege of
locus slandi.977976E. Sugden.Hear, from975974973972971Lord Stanley
 was afraid that the punishment of transportation was not sufficiently dreaded by that class of persons in this country who were likely to be guilty of great offences; he, therefore, thought that the total abolition of the punishment of death would, in the present state of the education of the people, be attended with danger.Lord Worsley
"Return of all persons appointed to be paid commissioners of Arbitration under the powers of the act 3 and 4 William 4th, c. 73; stating their names, the dates of their appointments, the salaries and emoluments to be paid to each of them, and the payments made to them respectively on account thereof; the dates of the said payments, and the authority under which such payments have been made. Return of any other office (if any) in the public service held by each of the said paid commissioners of arbitration; specifying the date of appointment to each office respectively, the salaries and emoluments payable, and the salaries and emoluments paid, in consequence of such other office; together with the dates of payment in each case. Copy of any warrant or warrants by which any payments may have been made to Mr. Stevenson, as commissioner of Arbitration, since the appointment of Mr. Stevenson to be a commissioner of the Board of Excise. Copies of any communications from the Secretary of the Colonies, Lord Glenelg, to the Board of Treasury, or to the Board of Arbitration Commissioners, in reference to the appointment of Mr. Amyot to be a paid commissioner of Arbitration."906l.l.l.l.l.905l.,l904903l.l.l.l.902 rose to move for certain papers relating to the appointment of Mr. Stevenson to the offices of commissioner of Arbitration, and commissioner of Excise; and in so doing said, he would briefly explain the reasons which had induced him to call for those papers. He was well aware that the motion he was about to submit to the House was not one involving great pecuniary considerations; it went rather to an inquiry into the inefficient and improper system under which the revenues of this country were conducted, than to any specific amount. It involved questions of a serious nature, touching public economy and public justice; and if he was correctly informed, the course which had been followed in respect to the case referred to in the papers, was so contrary to all the rules which had been laid down by the House and other authorities, and to all the practice recommended by every commission of inquiry into these subjects, that he felt it very difficult to bring himself to believe it. Indeed, if he had not heard from the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer himself, that Mr. Stevenson had received a salary, both as commissioner of Excise, and a commissioner of Arbitration, the statement would have appeared quite incredible to him. As far as he understood the facts of the case, they were these:—For about two years Mr. Stevenson had been engaged in both offices, and for a portion of that period he had received the salaries of both these offices. When the commission of Arbitration was first appointed, it consisted of five unpaid, and three paid commissioners; they were Gen-
"Return of all persons appointed to be paid commissioners of Arbitration under the powers of the act 3 and 4 William 4th, c. 73; stating their names, the dates of their appointments, the salaries and emoluments to be paid to each of them, and the payments made to them respectively on account thereof; the dates of the said payments, and the authority under which such payments have been made. Return of any other office (if any) in the public service held by each of the said paid commissioners of arbitration; specifying the date of appointment to each office respectively, the salaries and emoluments payable, and the salaries and emoluments paid, in consequence of such other office; together with the dates of payment in each case. Copy of any warrant or warrants by which any payments may have been made to Mr. Stevenson, as commissioner of Arbitration, since the appointment of Mr. Stevenson to be a commissioner of the Board of Excise. Copies of any communications from the Secretary of the Colonies, Lord Glenelg, to the Board of Treasury, or to the Board of Arbitration Commissioners, in reference to the appointment of Mr. Amyot to be a paid commissioner of Arbitration."906l.l.l.l.l.905l.,l904903l.l.l.l.902Lord G. Somerset
929928927926 said, that paying, as he was ready to pay a tribute of respect to the motives of the hon. Gentleman in bringing forward this motion, and to the ability with which he had introduced it—he could not admit that, with that object in view, the hon. Member had adopted the proper course in submitting a resolution on the subject. It appeared to him that if a matter of this grave importance was to be decided by that House, it ought to be according to the ordinary forms and proceedings. Leave ought to have been asked to bring in a bill, and if the House recognised the principle so far as to allow of the bill being brought in, it might have been discussed in its subsequent stages, and the attention of the House would have been fully called to it. If the hon. Member had moved for a bill, and had obtained the permission of the House to introduce it, that would have been so far a recognition of the principle; if, on the contrary, the House did not assent to the introduction of the measure, there would still have been a decision of the House against it; but proceeding by resolution might be productive of this inconvenience, that a certain principle would have been affirmed by that House, while the judges and the executive, presiding over the administration of the law, would be bound to act upon a different principle. The resolution, if carried, might have a very popular effect, while, at the same time, neither the judges nor the executive would feel themselves authorised by the letter of the law in acting upon a resolution of that House. He, therefore, thought that the hon. Gentleman ought not have proceeded by way of resolution, but ought to have adhered to the ordinary course in seeking an alter-
929928927926Lord J. Russell
958957956955954953952bonâ fide951E. Sugden950 said, that as the right hon. Gentleman in deferring his present motion had wished him to bring forward his own motion for leave to bring in a bill upon this subject, perhaps the House would allow him then to make the motion which he had intended to submit to the House as an amendment. What the right hon. Gentleman had said in
958957956955954953952bonâ fide951E. Sugden950Lord John Russell
914 thought that the noble Lord was mistaken as to the conduct of Lord Glenelg, in reference to his intention to appoint Mr. Amyot. The fact he understood to be, that Mr. Stevenson, having said that he did not think he could go on with the business as a commissioner of compensations if he continued to hold the two offices, that then Lord Glenelg sent the appointment to Mr. Amyot. He did consider that this was not the holding of a double office, but the appointment of a gentleman to a commission which had already gone through an immense deal of business. He would not enter into the question whether such services ought to be paid for or not, but he thought that his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had given a very satisfactory answer on that point. Now the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Goulburn) seemed to think that, if a person had nothing to do, there was no objection to his holding two offices. It did so happen that this commission of compensation to the West India proprietors had been appointed on the recommendation of the noble Lord who was then Secretary for the Colonies It was well known that that commission had certainly performed its duties in a manner not only creditable to the commissioners, but in a very exemplary manner. In proof of this remark, the noble Lord read four extracts from an ably-written pamphlet on the subject of the labours of the arbitration commission, showing the multitude of claims that were received and disposed of between the years 1835 and 1840. Now, he thought when this had been the case, and they took into their consideration the delays which always arose in our courts of law and equity in respect to claims for compensation or disputed property, he thought Lord Glenelg had made a most judicious appointment in the person of Mr. Steven-
914Lord J. Russell
960"That, by the law and privilege of Parliament, this House has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to determine upon the existence and extent of its privileges, and that the institution or prosecution of any action, suit, or other proceeding, for the purpose of bringing them into discussion or decision before any court or tribunal elsewhere than in Parliament, is a high breach of such privilege, and renders all parties concerned therein amenable to its just displeasure, and to the punishment consequent thereon. That for any court or tribunal to assume to decide upon matters of privilege inconsistent with the determination of either House of Parliament thereon, is contrary to the law of Parliament, and is a breach and contempt of the privileges of Parliament."959 would not detain the House for more than a few minutes, while he expressed his opinion on the motion just submitted to the House. He was not at all satisfied with the explanation of the noble Lord as to the course that he proposed to adopt with reference to the publications of the House. The noble Lord had given notice of his motion as an amendment to the one which he had intended to submit to the House; and he had been induced to give way to the noble Lord. He was by no means satisfied with the statement of the noble Lord, who concluded with telling the House that the Printed Publications Committee would report on the facts to the House. Now if he had not been stopped by the noble Lord's announcement, he should have shortly stated what they were. But, he would now ask, was this Committee prepared to report on measures which should be adopted, that would afford security against the characters of persons being attacked in the publications of the House? The Committee would only look to the nature of the publications, as they would give information to the House, and to the number that would be
960"That, by the law and privilege of Parliament, this House has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to determine upon the existence and extent of its privileges, and that the institution or prosecution of any action, suit, or other proceeding, for the purpose of bringing them into discussion or decision before any court or tribunal elsewhere than in Parliament, is a high breach of such privilege, and renders all parties concerned therein amenable to its just displeasure, and to the punishment consequent thereon. That for any court or tribunal to assume to decide upon matters of privilege inconsistent with the determination of either House of Parliament thereon, is contrary to the law of Parliament, and is a breach and contempt of the privileges of Parliament."959Sir E. Sugden
949 said, that in bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice, "for the appointment of a committee to consider and report to the House what steps should be taken in order to guard against the reports and other papers of the House which the House may-think it necessary to publish, containing matter criminatory of individuals; and whether it be expedient to discontinue, or to place under any and what restrictions, the sale of such of the proceedings of the House as may be published," he had intended to lay before the House a distinct view of what had in former times taken place in the House of Commons on the subject, and the operation of the practice, and what had latterly taken place, and the operation of that practice, in order to show that it was absolutely necessary some new rules should be adopted with a view to prevent the publications of the House containing matter injurious to individuals, and that it required grave consideration whether, consistently with that view, there could or could not be a safe sale by the House of copies of any of its proceedings. If any scheme could be adopted to prevent their publications containing matter criminatory of the character of individuals, then of course they might be sold. But he was rather deterred from entering upon any discussion by the mode in which the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had given his notice, which was to move, as an amendment to his motion, that leave be given to bring in a bill to give summary protection to persons employed in the publication of Parliamentary papers. The noble Lord had thus taken him rather at a disadvantage in making his motion as an amendment to his, because they were altogether consistent with each other as he understood them. He regarded his own motion to be intended only to facilitate any measure of legislation that might be deemed necessary; or if legislation were not resorted to, then, to give the public all the benefit without the injury of publication.
949Sir E. Sugden
940 observed, that it had been forcibly and truly stated by a moralist, that the worst use to which a man could be put, was that of hanging him, and he fully agreed in the truth of this axiom. The great excuse urged by those who advocated the punishment of death for murder, was, that the Mosaic law commanded that blood should be the forfeit for blood; but if that reasoning were adopted, the punishment of death ought to be awarded to adultery, and many other crimes as the same law declared that to be the penalty of such offences. The fact, however, was, that all such pleas or defences, for the perpetration of the infliction of death were wholly and totally without any scriptural foundation. Society
940Mr. Muntz
937936 said, although by the form of the motion as it then stood, one of the chief objections which the noble Lord opposite had urged against it might have been removed, yet he could not avoid addressing a few words to the House on the present question. In much that had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, he fully agreed. He entirely agreed with that right hon. Gentleman that the real and true questions to be then considered were, whether by the proposed alteration of the laws, they should lessen the quantity of guilt, whether by doing away with the punishment of death, they should diminish the frequency of the crime of murder. He (Mr. Goulburn) could not avoid saying, however, that the right hon. Gentleman appeared to him to have mixed up two questions in his speech upon the present matter, and that he had led away the feelings of the House most particularly in favour of that one, which did not, perhaps, belong legitimately to the present consideration. The right hon. Gentleman had alluded to the bad effects resulting from public executions, and had contended that these bad effects were increased by the fewness of the number of those executions. That was a proposition in which he confessed he could not acquiesce. That was an argument which he did not think sustained the motion before the House, or rather the principle contended for by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. Might not the punishment of death he inflicted in a mode otherwise than that calculated to produce those effects which were condemned as so injurious to the public mind? He was not for a moment going to say that secret punishment was not objectionable, and would, perhaps, be considered generally unpopular; but if they found that the punishment of death could not be dispensed with in the case of the commission of murder, and if it was ascertained that public executions had those evil effects on the public mind which had been ascribed to them, it was possible to have the punish-
937936Mr. Goulburn
912tu quoquel.911 observed that as there was no objection to the production of the papers for which his noble Friend had moved, he would not, on the present occasion, enter into any discussion upon the general merits of the case. But he could not refrain from expressing his surprise that his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, should have thought it necessary to complain of the statement which his noble Friend had made in support of his motion. If his noble Friend had merely brought forward the case, without stating the grounds for so doing, he would have been open to the accusation of having submitted a motion for which he could not make out a case. His noble Friend, therefore, was, in his opinion, fully justified in the course he had thought proper to pursue. His noble Friend had stated very explicitly and very accurately the grounds of the charge against the Government; and he must, with all respect, add that his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had made a very feeble and insufficient reply. He would state his reasons for saying so. If he correctly understood his right hon. Friend's argument, he did not deny that it was the practice to allow to the commissioners of arbitration a certain amount of money on account in the month of October, and that when Mr. Stevenson applied to him, he having been appointed to the Excise commissionership in September, 1838, his right hon. Friend considered that he was entitled to a larger proportion of remuneration, because the business of the Board of Arbitration up to the middle of 1838, had been far more laborious than it could be from thence to the expiration of the commission. He thought this reply showed a sufficient reason for asking the grounds upon which the payment had been made. But the charge was not that the Treasury bad paid Mr. Stevenson for business done up to the middle of the year 1838—important as every one admitted that business to
912tu quoquel.911Mr. Goulburn
 could not help giving his-testimony to the conduct of the three commissioners of compensation. He had himself received a variety of claims from the Crown colonies, the West Indies, and particularly from the Mauritius, all of which had been decided with a despatch and in a manner which was highly creditable to the commission. He knew that it had been under discussion to present a memorial to her Majesty's Government to represent that the remuneration which these gentlemen were about to receive was quite inadequate to the value and extent of their services; and if such a memorial were adopted, he should be glad to present it himself.Mr. Irving
 thought there would be found great difficulty in devising a secondary punishment for the crime of murder, if the punishment of death were to be abolished. It happened to him to be at one time detained at a foreign port while the ship was performing quarantine, when he took the opportunity of watching the galley slaves. Observing that one of them, after a few days, was absent, he inquired into the cause, and he was told that the man had been guilty of murdering two of his fellow-convicts. He then, inquired what was the first offence of that man, when he was informed that while acting in the capacity of a servant to a monk at Rome, he murdered his master. Now, in Tuscany, the punishment of death had been abolished; this murderer, consequently, could not be more severely treated after his second offence than he was for his first. This constituted with him the difficulty he experienced. He certainly was willing to give his vote for the abolition of the punishment of death in every case, except that of murder.Mr. John Jones
 said, that he had voted with the hon. Gentleman in 1837, though he owned, with some doubt and difficulty, when he proposed that death should cease to be the punishment for all crimes, except murder; but, as he now proposed, that capital punishment should be abolished for murder also, he differed from him, and felt bound to vote against his motion.Mr. Plumptre
"No, no."941 would ask the hon. Member who had last spoken if he were to carry out his principle where it would end. He had risen for the purpose of recording his sentiments in favour of the abolition of capital punishment, as he held it as a principle that no man had a right in any case to take away the life of his-fellow man. Therefore, when he saw laws
"No, no."941Mr. Brotherton
913 did not think the House was then in a condition to pronounce an opinion upon the subject. He thought, however, that if, as had been said by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, a commissioner of excise had sufficient leisure; to enable him to perform the duties of another office, it was a sufficient reason for reducing the number of those commissioners. There were now seven commissioners in the excise, and he (Mr. Hume) considered that three would be amply sufficient. He also thought that the number of commissioners of customs should also be reduced to three, and that the present number of stamp commissioners might also very properly be reduced by one half. There were now, he believed, in the three departments he had mentioned, twenty-two commissioners, he believed that nine would be
913Mr. Hume
935934933932931930 agreed with the noble Lord that nothing could be more detrimental to the due course of justice than that the House should agree to a resolution that capital punishments ought to be abolished without taking any steps towards legislating on the subject, leaving the Home-office to carry out the laws under the ban of an expressed opinion of the House. The course of the hon. Member ought to be to move for leave to bring in a bill, and it was his intention, in order to remove that objection, to move, as an amendment to the motion, that leave be given to bring in a bill. Having had no intention of taking any share in the discussion, he yet felt himself constrained to make some observations upon the arguments adduced by his noble Friend. A considerable number of persons in the kingdom were of opinion that punishment by death is contrary to the law of God. The theological part of the argument he would not meddle with—his argument
935934933932931930Sir Stephen Lushington
 had no objection to withdraw his motion, as the amendment would fully meet his views; his principal wish having been to bring on a discussion on this matter, and test the opinion of that House concerning it.Mr. Ewart
"With the utmost satisfaction to our paternal feelings we have at length perceived that the mitigation of punishment, joined to a most scrupulous attention to prevent crimes, and also a great despatch in the trials, together with a certainty and suddenness of punishment to real delinquents, has, instead of increasing the number of crimes, considerably diminished that of the smaller ones, and rendered those of an atrocious nature very rare."919Société de Morale Chrètienne918917commutationabolition916915 rose, pursuant to his notice, to move for the entire Abolition of the Punishment of Death. He confessed he did not rise to make the proposition without emotion. Nor would he have ventured to make the attempt but for two reasons; in the first place, on account of the deep conviction which he entertained on the subject; and in the second place, because he knew that, in making it, he was supported by many of the best, and by some of the wisest, persons in the community. In approaching this question he should discard the religious view of the subject; he held that religion was too sacred a topic to be profaned by the heats and animosities of a political assembly. He should also discard the abstract view of the question. Those who wished
"With the utmost satisfaction to our paternal feelings we have at length perceived that the mitigation of punishment, joined to a most scrupulous attention to prevent crimes, and also a great despatch in the trials, together with a certainty and suddenness of punishment to real delinquents, has, instead of increasing the number of crimes, considerably diminished that of the smaller ones, and rendered those of an atrocious nature very rare."919Société de Morale Chrètienne918917commutationabolition916915Mr. Ewart
946 replied. It appeared that, in the returns laid before the House, there were recorded thirty-nine cases, in which sentence of death was commuted; yet, this commutation did not induce the relatives of the murdered parties to take vengeance on the perpetrators. However,
946Mr. Ewart
910l.l.l.l.,909908l.,l.,907 said, the House must be perfectly aware, as no doubt the noble Lord opposite was, that there could be no objection to producing the papers for which he moved, or any other documents connected with the subject which could afford the House the least information. He could not, however, but observe that the noble Lord, without the least reason to anticipate a refusal of the documents, argued the case before he procured the evidence. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would necessarily be obliged to allude to transactions, the documents respecting which, were not before the House; but when the papers were on the table they would find every word which he intended to address to them fully borne out by the indisputable statements which those papers contained. As the noble Lord had thought proper to address them at such length, he must beg permission to make a few remarks upon what had fallen
910l.l.l.l.,909908l.,l.,907The Chancellor of the Exchequer
d. said, that the hon. Gentleman was quite correct in stating that the home postage to Dover was a penny, but the postage on a foreign letter was fixed under a treaty, and by that treaty the postage to Dover was 10d.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
901 re-
901The Chancellor of the Exchequer
943942 was not one of those who were disposed to take away the life of one human being more than was necessary for the protection of others. The single question before the House was, in what cases could the infliction of death as a punishment be safely dispensed with most securely to the lives and properties of other men. That wonderful ameliorations had taken place in this respect he was sure he need
943942Sir R. Inglis
970dicta969968967966965964963962961 rose, shortly to state to the House why he found it to be his duty to oppose the motion of the noble Lord. He entertained no doubt but the House would credit him when he stated, that all his inclinations and wishes were, that he might be able to support the noble Lord and the Government of which he was a member. He felt this the more strongly, as he had so lately been called upon to take office under them, and he did so in perfect conformity with his inclinations and feelings; but he also felt that his duty as a Member of Parliament, was paramount to his duty as a humble member of the Government. Therefore, under the influence of a sense of duty, and feeling that duty to be imperative on him, he felt that he could not conscientiously discharge that
970dicta969968967966965964963962961The Solicitor-General
985984983982l.981980ex officio979 thought the plan of pro-
985984983982l.981980ex officio979Mr. O' Cornell
 declared that he had never been actuated in the course he had taken on this question by any feeling of hostility against the reformed House of Commons.Captain J. Hope
mucous membrane protested against the decision at which the House had arrived, and stated that it appeared to him, that the public, from the proceedings of the House, must think them the most inconsistent body that the world ever contained. He concluded, that to-morrow somebody would come from Newgate and inform the House, that Mr. Howard was suffering from a severe running of the nose, and they would further be told, that the mucous membraneMr. Elliott
 urged the hon. Member for Finsbury to withdraw his amendment, lest it should end in defeating the object of the original motion.Mr. Pemberton
E. Sugden1026102510241023v.v.v.1022l.10211020 was sorry to have again to address the House upon this question, but there were two or three arguments which had been used against the principle he had adopted—and arguments which some persons might consider of great apparent force—which he did not like to pass without at least attempting to give some answer to them. The first was the argument which was put by his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-general, and which seemed to have made a great impression on the House. It was this—that by introducing this bill, and even by its passing in the shape in which it was introduced through both Houses of Parlia-
E. Sugden1026102510241023v.v.v.1022l.10211020Lord John Russell
 having moved the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of Supply,Lord John Russell
 said, there were letters of that kind, but they were not letters, that contained any narrative of the transaction; and he did not think that they were letters that could be laid before the House, however, he would not give a positive answer without referring to the letters themselves.Lord J. Russell
: No official account has been received of the naval action, or of the transaction to which the right hon. Gentleman has alluded. Private letters have reached this country from Captain Elliott and Captain Smith, and when official accounts are received there will be no objection to lay them before the House.Lord John Russell
1038 would not follow the course which had been pursued by the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, but he was anxious to say a few words on the real question which had been brought under their consideration. He hoped that the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Finsbury, when sitting in his court to his judicial capacity, put the cases which came before him to the juries with a little more accuracy than he had used on the present occasion. The hon. Gentleman said that the House had admitted by the bill which had been proposed, that the House in its previous proceedings had been wrong, and that Mr. Stockdale was right; but, if that was the way in which
1038Lord J. Russell
 was of opinion, that the medical evidence afforded no justification at all. He thought, that the course of the right hon. Baronet was very inconsistent with the manner in which he had spoken of the medical evidence on a former evening. He agreed with the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that the public would think the assertion of ill-health a mere pretence to get rid of the difficulty. They were now about to discharge the sheriff, not because he had purged himself of the contempt for which he had been imprisoned, but because he was in a station of life that commanded the sympathy of the House, which sympathy did not appear to be extended to the other persons in custody, who were of a more bumble rank. Those other parties were just in the same position, and he would venture to say, that evidence might be procured quite as strong as that they had heard, with reference not to what was, but to what might be, the effect of confinement on them. The confinement in which the sheriff was kept was not close, but as mild a species of confinement as could be inflicted on any person who was imprisoned for a breach of the law. He considered Stockdale and the other persons incarcerated, to be quite as much entitled to their liberty as the sheriff; and if the right hon. Baronet opposite did not make a motion to release them, he (Mr. Hawes) would himself do so.Mr. Hawes
1035 contended, that if the case rested upon the evidence of Dr. Chambers, a weaker ground for discharging a person from custody had never been advanced. In Mr. Wheelton's case, it was stated, that he was in danger of an apoplectic attack, and that the physician would not guarantee his life from hour to hour. Upon such a ground as that any prisoner in the country, even a prisoner for life, would be discharged; but widely different was the case of Mr. Sheriff Evans, which, if put upon the ground of health, must most certainly fail. Presuming that it would, which he believed could not be doubted by any person believing in the testimony of Dr. Chambers, were they now to stu1035Mr. Hawes
993HumeHume:992 was of opinion that the sale of the Parliamentary papers had nothing whatever to do with the bill then before the House, and the giving a copy by any Member to a constituent, or to a friend, was as much an act of publication as if the sale was made by a printer or publisher. There was one point in which he concurred with the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and that was, that the House was bound to provide some remedy
993HumeHume:992Mr. Charles Buller
1004"Aliquando bonus dormit Homerus." had always heard there was more joy in heaven over one sinner that repented than over ninety and nine just persons, and, as far as he could understand the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he was the repentant one in this matter. He believed that the noble Lord opposite was repentant too; otherwise he would not have introduced, at the eleventh hour, such a nonsensical and inoperative bill as that under discussion. He differed with regret from the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, in his view of the question; but
1004"Aliquando bonus dormit Homerus."Colonel Sibthorp
1046 was sorry that he had been misled by the opinions of others, to whom he thought it his duty to listen, and that he was anxious to retrace his steps,
1046Mr. Horsman
 was as anxious as the hon. Member for Finsbury could be for the entire discharge of the sheriff, but under the present circumstances he wished him not to press his amendment.Sir E. Sugden
 said he was ready to act upon the principle adopted by an hon. and learned Member opposite: fearing he should not succeed in obtaining the entire liberation of the sheriff, he would willingly accept of a month's leave of absence.Mr. Kemble
1034 confessed his surprise at the noble Lord's refusal, not merely to make, but to support a motion for the discharge of Mr. Sheriff Evans; because he had heard the noble Lord declare that evening, that if the House consented to the introduction of the bill of the noble Lord the Member for Stroud, he would consider that they had already done great injustice to that Gentleman. He was, therefore, at a loss to conceive upon what principle was it, if injustice had already been inflicted upon the sheriff by the introduction of that bill, that the noble Lord should now refuse to concur in a motion for his liberation. He begged leave to repudiate the assertion of that noble Lord, that hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House, who had throughout opposed the course which had been adopted, were actuated by a desire to bring the reformed House of Commons into contempt. For himself, he could say that he never had
1034Mr. Kemble
 said, that if the sheriff were to be liberated till the 6th of April, it would be in effect granting him a complete liberation. On the day appointed for his reappearance he would come down to the House at the head of a triumphal procession, accompanied by the Lord Mayor and Corporation, and present himself at the bar. If they discharged him knowing that such consequences must ensue, they would do wisely to discharge him at once. For his own part, he had resolved to vote against the main question.Mr. Warburton
1042 stated, that his meaning, was, that the plea of illness put forth on behalf of the sheriff was a pretence, and that
1042Mr. Hume
1039 said, he wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman opposite. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that the evidence of Mr. Freeman was not sufficient to justify the House in releasing the sheriff, and be wished to ask whether the evidence of Dr. Chambers had done anything to add strength to the
1039Mr. Hume
 would prefer that the right hon. Gentleman should move simply, that the sheriff be discharged, and not put in the pretence of sickness. He moved to omit the words relative to the opinion of the medical men.Mr. Hume
1003 said, the right hon. Baronet on a former occasion had asserted that the House possessed the power of vindicating their privileges. The House had tried their power, and he wanted to know why they retired from the course they had commenced, unless they intended to define their privileges. Much time had been spent on the question, and if the system now advocated was continued, much more would be lost. Why did the House refuse to take the proper course—to bring in a bill which defined all their privileges? The Serjeant-at-Arms was likely to have an action shortly brought against him. Did the bill go so far as to prevent the action? If the bill did not do so, why did the House attempt to legislate for only a trifling part of the matter? He had heard it asserted by high authorities in that House, that the judges were wrong and the House was right; but would the right hon. Baronet venture to say, that the judges would not repeat their error? If the Lord Chief Justice really saw his error, the House ought to trust to that circumstance, before they violated a resolution on their books; or, if they did proceed, they ought first to expunge that resolution, which was to the effect that the House were the sole judges of their privileges, and any attempt to bring them under discussion was a breach of privilege. If the House departed from the high ground which they had taken at first, at least they ought to begin by doing away with what otherwise would be a contradiction in the proceedings. With respect to the privilege of publication, it ought to be secured in the most effectual manner, for he had seen so much good result from exposure of proceedings and practices, that the country had risen up to put down the obnoxious measures and men. He would ask whether the privileges of the Court of Queen's Bench were protected and defined by law. They were not so protected; their privileges rested on practice and precedent; and was it not degrading that one of the highest courts in the realm should be obliged to seek protection for its privileges under such a piecemeal peace of legislation? What he objected to was, that there was
1003Mr. Hume
 said, he had great pleasure in seconding the motion of the right hon. Baronet in introducing which the right hon. Baronet had stated circumstances which he thought ought to weigh with the House in settling the question. They had already set at liberty Mr. Wheelton, and, in his opinion, it would be very unjust not to pursue the same course with regard to Mr. Sheriff Evans.Mr. P. Howard
1017 thought that a reference to the old topics of debate was on this occasion quite unnecessary; but the noble Lord compelled him to repeat what had been again and again stated to the House—that the judges had held that the question of sale had nothing to do with the matter, and that it was altogether a question of privilege. The noble Lord the Member for Northumberland had said that the introduction of this bill was fraught with evil. To him it appeared that the whole question before the House was a choice of evils; but he could not agree with the noble Lord that, in introducing the present measure, his noble Friend the Member for Stroud had evinced the least desire to call upon the House of Commons to do any act of humiliation or degradation. Much stress had been laid on the action which had been brought by Mr. Howard against the Sergeant-at-Arms; and it had been asked what course would the House take in that case? He, for his own part, did not look upon that question as one of any magnitude, or in any degree calculated to sway the House in the decision to which they should come on the present occasion. The Court of
1017Mr. Bernal
 would not admit that he had been misled, or now allow himself to be misled by the parts which different sections of the House were acting, and he was willing to vote for the motion of the Member for Finsbury.Mr. Wallace
10191018 intended to vote for the introduction of the bill, and in doing so he did not believe he should be guilty of any vacillation of conduct, or be abandoning any principle he had formerly avowed, or prove himself destitute of any courage which every man ought to possess when the most valuable privileges of
10191018Sir S. Lushington
 expressed his willingness to withdraw his amendment.Mr. T. Duncombe
 said he would consent to no compromise. He had voted against the sheriff being summoned to the bar of the House in the first instance; he had opposed his detention throughout; and he should still continue to demand his permanent release from the custody of the House.Mr. T. Duncombe
 said, that having been one of those who originally objected to the incarceration of the sheriffs, he could not give his assent to the latter part of the motion, and he would therefore move, as an amendment, that the words directing the attendance of the sheriff on the 6th of April next, be omitted.Mr. T. Duncombe
994 must confess his surprise when the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last but one called on the House to consider the exhibition that had lately taken place at the bar of the House, and used it as an argument for assenting to this bill; for it must be remembered that, had it not been for a wrong judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench, they never would have been reduced to that necessity. This bill now called on them to go to the House of Lords for assistance in the assertion of their privileges, but when he recurred to former instances in which a similar course had been adopted, he met with little to encourage him in adopting it again. He fully believed that the House stood now in a better situation than it did at the commencement of the contest, in many particulars; for there was not a lawyer in the House who did not say, that the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench was wrong; and even at this time the Court of Queen's Bench seemed to be hesitating as to the propriety of the course they had taken, by their not directing the sheriff to assess the damages at once. He doubted much whether there was any public feeling against the House on this subject, notwithstanding what had been stated by the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln. There certainly had been one public meeting in Middlesex, to which persons were admitted only by tickets, and when some strong resolutions against the privileges of the House had been passed; but he was not aware that throughout the kingdom, from one end to the other, there had been any particular exhibition of feeling against them. Ten or twelve elections had also taken place since this subject had come before the House, but he did not know that their privileges had even been mentioned on the hustings. He had understood the right hon. Gentleman opposite to suggest to the noble Lord that he should learn from his colleagues in the other House what course should be taken on this measure. Now, it any measure of the kind had originated in the other House, he should not have considered it so object-
994Mr. Gisborne
101610151014101310121011 promised not to detain the House for more than a few minutes, but he confessed he had listened with so much pain to the expressions of his noble Friend, and of one or two other Gentlemen with whom, during the former proceedings upon this subject, he had most cordially concurred, that he was exceedingly unwilling to allow the question to go to a division without explaining, very briefly, the ground upon which he should give his vote. He had not as yet taken any part in the discussions upon this question. He would not again go over the ground which others had already trod with an ability and eloquence which he was sensible he could only feebly imitate. He would only say, in general, that he believed the House of Commons to be, by the law of the land, the sole judge of its own privileges—that he believed the privilege of publication to be by the law of the realm one of the privileges of the House—that he believed it to be a privilege essential to the due discharge of the duties of the House—that he believed the decision of the Queen's Bench, which attacked that privilege, to have been a decision founded not on law nor on reason, and that he never could give his support to any proposition that he conceived would tend to render that privilege doubtful. If the proposition now before
101610151014101310121011Mr. Macaulay
10371036 said, that in his opinion the amendment which had been moved by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Pembroke did not meet the necessities of the case. He regretted the right hon. Gentleman had not gone much further; for after the vote which the House had that evening come to, he must say that the House would exhibit itself to the country as one of the most paltry and contemptible bodies of men that ever existed, if they retained in confinement one single person who was then in custody under the orders of the House. By the vote of that evening they had decided that the courts of law were right; they had affirmed the decision, of the judges, and they had justified the course which Mr. Stockdale and Mr. Howard had pursued. Why, then, he would ask, should the detain the sheriff, and upon what grounds could his further detention be justified? Did the bill which was proposed affect the contempt of which the House had declared him guilty? Did it in the least degree alter his conduct? No; but the decision of that evening would inform the country that they now flinched from the course which they had hitherto pursued; that they could no longer assert their privileges, and that they succumbed to the courts of law. He would say, then, that he hoped the House would act consistently with its decision, and he trusted that every hon. Member would vote for the release of every one of those persons who were now in custody. He could not then move, as an amendment was already before the House, but if no other Member did so, he should on the first opportunity move for the release of all the persons in confinement, for by the vote of that evening the House had acknowledged that those persons were right, and that the House
10371036Mr. Wakley
 said, that he was not in the habit of fixing upon expressions let fall by hon. Members who were not much in the habit of measuring their words; but when the hon. Member for Kilkenny said expressly, that what he had risen in his place to state to the House was "a pretence," he must appeal to the Chair.Sir J. Graham
"That in consideration of the evidence of Mr. Freeman and Dr. Chambers, with respect to the state of health of Mr. Sheriff Evans, he be discharged for the present from the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms, and directed to attend at the Bar of this House upon Monday, the 6th of April." rose to ask permission of the House to withdraw his original motion; after what the noble Lord had said as to the difficulty with regard to taking bail for the sheriff's appearance, and to substitute for it the following:—
"That in consideration of the evidence of Mr. Freeman and Dr. Chambers, with respect to the state of health of Mr. Sheriff Evans, he be discharged for the present from the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms, and directed to attend at the Bar of this House upon Monday, the 6th of April."Sir J. Graham
 said, that he attached great weight to the evidence of Dr. Chambers, and did not think they would be justified in keeping the sheriff in custody after that. Both the medical men had declared, that the sheriff's restoration to freedom was indispensable for the preservation of his health.Sir J. Graham
1032"That in consideration of the evidence of
1032103110301029 said, after the protracted discussion upon this subject in which the House had been so very recently engaged, it would be inexcusable in him to preface his motion with any lengthened observations. He could not, however, avoid congratulating the House on the circumstances of its having at length made some advance towards a satisfactory conclusion of this question. He had hoped, and indeed expected, that a resolution, similar in substance to that with which he was about to
1032"That in consideration of the evidence of
1032103110301029Sir J. Graham
 had been informed, that there was a letter addressed by Captain Elliott to the late Admiral Maitland, giving an account of the blockade, and that that letter was transmitted by the late Admiral Maitland to the Admiralty. Surely that was an official communication to the Government, and he presumed her Majesty's Government would not object to lay that document before the House.Sir James Graham
 not seeing the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Department, or any hon. Member connected with the Admiralty, in his place, begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies a question relative to the Chinese papers which were laid on the table at a late hour last night. He did not find in those papers any account of some most important transactions mentioned in the last accounts received in England as to the port of Canton being declared in a state of blockade by Captain Elliott, a remonstrance having been made on the part of certain American merchants against the blockade of the port of Canton and also an action said to have taken place between certain Chinese vessels of war and some of her Majesty's fleet. He wished to know whether her Majesty's Government were in possession of any information with respect to the blockade or the action to which he alluded; and if so, whether it was their intention to lay it upon the table?Sir James Graham,
 expressed a hope that the House would close its proceedings on this subject with the unconditional liberation of the sheriff.Sir R. Inglis
1047 said he had voted against the absolute discharge of the sheriff on the evidence of Mr. Freeman, and he was ready to repeat that course. But the question arose whether or no Dr. Chambers should be called in, when he differed from the noble Lord, and advised the House to call him in. Dr. Chambers was then examined, and the noble Lord, the chairman of the Committee of privileges, in his official capacity, after having taken a strong and prominent part in favour of privilege, warned the House against retaining the sheriff in close custody, and made the proposition that the sheriff should be permitted, under the advice of his medical attendant, to select any place out of town where he should reside in custody of a messenger of the House. Was not that a proof that there was something in the health of the sheriff which seemed like real danger? Was that a relaxation which would be made in any ordinary case? Was it not the impression of the noble Lord that the health of the sheriff would be endangered by continued confinement? He had intended to vote for that proposition of the noble Lord; and he considered that he was acting in conformity with the course he had taken in now refusing to keep this gentleman in close confinement. He was resolved still to give the House the best advice he could on the maintenance of its privileges; but it was not the part of a wise friend to pursue, under different circumstances, the same course which had been pursued under others. After having pushed to the furthest extent the privileges of the House, though they were not exhausted, he was afraid of their breaking under him. He was still willing, however, to push them to the furthest point
1047Sir R. Peel
100210011000999l.998l.l.l.l.997996995 said, he was surprised to find that the hon. Member who had just sat down, would not be able to fight under his banner now in the effort to relieve the House from its present difficulty by means of a legislative measure, because from the very first he had said, that so imperfect as their powers were to maintain those absolutely essential privileges, he did foresee that they would ultimately be obliged to proceed to legislation. He had said the House ought to support its privileges by all the powers which it possessed; he had at the same time told them that he anticipated failure, but that he considered that no reason why every effort should not be tried to vindicate their privileges. He foresaw that at last they would have to resort to a legislative measure, and he did suggest the bringing in of a bill to settle the question. But an argument was now used, by which it was contended, that if this question was to be settled by legislation, all the other privileges of the House ought to be confirmed in the same manner. Now, he should have no objection to such a course, if he could find a means of defining all the other privileges of the House, but no other privilege was called in question, and he could not anticipate that any other would be called in question. If any other were to be called in question, he should then propose to take such efficient measures as would be adapted to the circumstances. But if he were to attempt to settle the privileges of the House by Act of Parliament, there would be great danger of omitting some essential privilege in such an enactment, and of thereby implying that no such privilege existed. That was his objection to any attempt to legislate upon every privilege of the House. In assenting to take the course now proposed to be taken, he adhered as strongly as ever to his original opinions upon this sub-
100210011000999l.998l.l.l.l.997996995Sir R. Peel
1041"Do you think that close imprisonment would be highly injurious, under those circumstances of predisposition to disease, which you have remarked in Mr. Sheriff Evans? I do.""Do you consider him in that state that his life would be endangered by further confinement? I think his health would be much deteriorated by confinement, and I conceive that his further confinement might convert those defects which have so disordered the digestive organs into absolute diseases; for instance, if indigestion is continued for any length of time, the liver becomes at last disordered. When defect is continued, that becomes a disease; and we know that from diseases of the liver, for instance, dropsy arises, and all the dangers of dropsy."1040"Do you think, then, if Mr. Sheriff Evans were allowed to take air and exercise, and return to the House of Commons, it would have the same effect? I think not, for his mind is suffering greatly, and that is acting on his body.""Is the sheriff growing worse or better tinder your care?—He is growing worse under his confinement. There is no immediate danger of him? I cannot say that there is, but his life would be endangered if he were to remain longer under restraint." made it a point to answer all the questions of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, but he was sorry to say, that he never got any proof of the hon. Gentleman's confidence until the hon. Gentleman was in difficulty. In his opinion, the House would do credit to itself in doing justice. The hon. Gentleman had said, that he had stated before the Bill was proposed, that he was not prepared to vote for the discharge of the sheriff on the evidence of Mr. Freeman, and he had asked how he could vote for his discharge now. But before the bill was brought in, he had voted for the discharge of Mr. Sheriff Wheelton. Hon. Gentlemen would remember that he was against the absolute discharge of the sheriff, but voted for his discharge upon the ground of ill health. When the noble Lord, who had taken the Strongest position in this question of privilege, said, "I think we would incur a deep responsibility if we kept Mr. Sheriff Wheelton in close confinement under the circumstances which have been deposed to," what was his course? He rose and said, that he had arrived at the same conclusion, and that he thought quite sufficient grounds had been made out for the sheriff's release. The question now before the House was altogether a question of evidence. And the following were the considerations, which had made an impression upon his mind, as to the propriety of keeping the sheriff in close confinement. Mr. Freeman, a highly respectable man in his profession, gave the following evidence:—
1041"Do you think that close imprisonment would be highly injurious, under those circumstances of predisposition to disease, which you have remarked in Mr. Sheriff Evans? I do.""Do you consider him in that state that his life would be endangered by further confinement? I think his health would be much deteriorated by confinement, and I conceive that his further confinement might convert those defects which have so disordered the digestive organs into absolute diseases; for instance, if indigestion is continued for any length of time, the liver becomes at last disordered. When defect is continued, that becomes a disease; and we know that from diseases of the liver, for instance, dropsy arises, and all the dangers of dropsy."1040"Do you think, then, if Mr. Sheriff Evans were allowed to take air and exercise, and return to the House of Commons, it would have the same effect? I think not, for his mind is suffering greatly, and that is acting on his body.""Is the sheriff growing worse or better tinder your care?—He is growing worse under his confinement. There is no immediate danger of him? I cannot say that there is, but his life would be endangered if he were to remain longer under restraint."Sir R. Peel
 was of opinion, that the sheriff should be liberated on the testimony of Mr. Freeman, his own physician. It appeared to him, that even within the last few days the case of Mr. Evans had assumed a different aspect. He thought it would be more for the dignity of the House to release the sheriff at once than to take bail for his appearance.Sir T. Cochrane
991990989988l.;987986 said, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin opposed the introduction of this bill because, as he said, the House had at present the means of carrying the object sought for by this bill into effect. It had been intimated before, that they ought to summon, and the hon. and learned Gentleman now called upon the House to summon, the judges of the Court of Queen's Bench, and commit them for giving a judgment contrary to the opinion of the majority of that House. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that unless they did this they could not effectually vindicate the privileges of the House. He would call the attention of the hon. and learned Gentleman to what he considered the proposition before the House. He would say, in the first place, that it had not been disputed by any of the leading Members of the House, that the House had power to communicate freely and without question its proceedings to the public. This was the opinion he had always entertained, and which he had expressed on all occasions. He thought the House had the power, and ought to have it, because he considered such a power
991990989988l.;987986Sir W. Follett
10101009cries of "Ok, oh,1008100710061005 confessed that the objections to the measure of the noble Lord urged the preceding night by his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-general, were far from being removed, in his mind, by the debate of the present night. All those who had attended to the speeches of the right hon. Baronet opposite, and the hon. and learned Member for Exeter, must have perceived that those who supported the measure of his noble Friend were called on to do so by the admitted inadequacy, on the part of those hon. Members of the House to support its own privileges. It was consistent in the latter hon. Member to uphold the doctrine of an appeal to the fifteen judges, and from them to the House of Lords, because he had upheld it before in the debates on this question. But it was in his opinion a new doctrine to the law and constitution of the country that the dearest privileges of that House should be held at the discretion of the other branch of the legislature, for such would be its practical result. That doctrine, as he had said, was not inconsistent with the opinions already stated by the hon. and learned Member; but it was far otherwise with that maintained by the right hon. Baronet and the noble Lord, who had always been distinguished as the most strenuous assert-ors of the doctrine that the House was the sole judge of its own privileges. What
10101009cries of "Ok, oh,1008100710061005Viscount Howick
Cries of "Move.1033 said, that as the right hon. Baronet had referred to a suggestion thrown out by him on a former evening, he felt it necessary to explain what he considered a great distinction between that suggestion and the motion of the right hon. Baronet. He had not proposed that the sheriff should be released from the duress of remaining in custody, but had merely expressed a wish that that duress should be mitigated, as far as could be done consistently with the cause of the imprisonment. He would now say, that he should not have proposed that Mr. Sheriff Evans should be relieved to that extent, if, before he had so proposed, he had heard the evidence of Dr. Chambers, which completely cut away the only ground upon which he could make such a proposition. The right hon. Baronet, however, would relieve the sheriff from all duress whatsoever. He proposed, certainly, that they should take security for his appearance at the Bar of that House whenever he should be called upon, but would that make Mr. Evans's position after release the worse, or theirs any better? There was not the remotest prospect of their not finding Mr. Evans whenever they should require him, even without bail, which was only required for persons who it might be feared would abscond or conceal themselves. To require bail, in the case of Mr. Evans, was no restraint whatever, and seemed to him perfectly idle and nugatory. If they were to release him, he thought it would be better to do so forthwith, and without demanding any bail, but let them not do it upon the
Cries of "Move.1033Viscount Howick
 said, the hon. Member had misrepresented him. What he stated was, that if such a bill as his noble Friend proposed was allowed to be brought in, the sheriff would have reason to complain that he had been, not unjustly treated but ill used, in consequence of that bill not having been brought in sooner, and the period necessary to keep him in confinement thereby abridged. He meant that, inasmuch as when the bill should be introduced there would be no further necessity for keeping the sheriff in confinement, not having introduced that bill at the earliest moment possible, afforded a ground of complaint on the part of the sheriff.Viscount Howick
1043 thought the proposal which the right hon. Baronet opposite had adopted at the suggestion of his noble Friend very objectionable. At the end of three weeks Mr. Sheriff Evans would be brought back, and the House would be placed in the same difficulty as ever. The medical witnesses, the House would recollect, spoke to the existence, not of any particular or acute disease, but of a general unhealthy state of body, which
1043Viscount Howick
 hoped the hon. Member would withdraw his amendment.Viscount Mahon
10601059quamdiu se male gesseret,concordia discors,1058105710561055105410531052 said, that having rarely taken part during the last two sessions in any of the various debates respecting Ireland, he intended on this occasion to make some remarks upon the affairs and interests of that country—a country which during so many centuries had been groaning under the accumulated evils of misgovernment, or, in other words, had unhappily been cleaving to the ignominious thraldom of Papal domination, and which could never be permanently peaceful or prosperous without a repeal of the union, not between Great Britain and Ireland, but between Ireland and the see of Rome. He approached this task with unaffected reluctance, because he was afraid that some of the statements which he should submit, and some of the principles which he should avow, might not be assented to by many valued Friends around him, with whom he at all times deemed it an honour to act and accounted it a happiness to agree; but he could not, in the discharge or a public duty, allow himself to be so swayed by personal sentiments of deference and regard as to disguise the feelings of his heart and belie the convictions of his understanding. He was impelled to address the House on this subject by a deep and increasing persuasion—a persuasion not a little fortified by the menacing tone assumed, and the ominous prophecies uttered in quarters of high authority—that the Protestant institutions of Ireland, with which those of the empire stood indissolubly linked, were in fearful and imminent jeopardy. He believed that the very force intended to maintain tranquillity
10601059quamdiu se male gesseret,concordia discors,1058105710561055105410531052Sir G. Sinclair
Belfast Vindicator,106310621061, in seconding the motion, would not take up the time of the House by reiterating the arguments which from the very first had induced him to oppose to the measure; but the question had been under consideration for so many years, and had been discussed in all its bearings in so many successive Sessions, that there was no Member, the most indifferent, who must not have had it forced upon him to form some opinion concerning it, and to become, in some degree, decided as to its bearings. He was not content to rest his opposition to the bill on the same grounds taken up by some of the gentlemen in the corporation of Dublin, whose alarms regarding its political and sectarian effects he could not but regard as highly excited and exaggerated; but these had been so repeatedly canvassed in the House, that be would abstain altogether even from stating the proportion of importance which did attach to them. In Dublin it might, and be had no doubt the change in those respects would be very considerable; but ha did not believe so of Belfast, and the other important towns in schedule A. But independently of these considerations, there were other and important grounds on which he had from the very first resisted the introduction of the measure, and on which be was still as strongly at ever op-
Belfast Vindicator,106310621061Mr. E. Tennent
 said, that it was not competent to any hon. Member to read a newspaper in the House.The Speaker
 replied, that he was about to read an extract from a newspaper as part of his speech—that he had cut out from the paper a slip of the portion to which he wished to call attention, and he conceived that he should not be out of order in reading it.Mr. E. Tennent
 was sure the hon. Member himself must see that a slip was equivalent to a newspaper.The Speaker
 thought it would have the effect of depriving the House of many facilities in the transaction of business if they were prohibited from reading printed papers in that House, and he conceived that if they were denied permission to read an extract from a newspaper, it amounted to a prohibition against all printed papers.Mr. Hume
 understood the rule of the House to be, that unless a Member got up in his place to complain of a breach of privilege, he was not entitled to read a newspaper, and as a slip was equivalent to a newspaper, it appeared to him that the hon. Member for Belfast could not be in order when he read to the House, as he proposed to do, the extract in question.The Speaker
1064 said, if he recollected aright, the rule applicable to the reading of newspapers in the House was this—that Members, on account of the indecorum and the inconvenience that would result from any such practice, should not be at liberty to read newspapers in the House which had no reference to the matters under consideration; but he doubted whether it would not be drawing the rule too tight to say that a Member was not at liberty to read an extract from a newspaper as part of his speech. Suppose a public meeting had occurred, the resolutions of which were thought to be of suf-
1064Sir R. Peel
 said, he did not see any difference between printed books and. newspapers, so far as the reading of extracts was concerned; and he must say, that he had seen the reading of such extracts allowed, though it certainly was contrary to the strict rules of the House. If, however, an hon. Member made an extract, whether printed or written, whether from a newspaper or from a book, a part of his speech, be the strict rule what it might, the practice had of late been to leave such a matter to his own discretion.Lord J. Russell
 observed, that on a late occasion large passages from newspapers were read in the House, containing a correspondence between Messrs. Fox and Forsyth, respecting the frontier of New Brunswick, which contained information of great public importance. He should, of course, treat with the greatest possible respect any opinion coming from the chair; but he never before had heard, that the reading of extracts was contrary to order.Sir R. Peel
1065 remembered some years ago, that he had occasion to refer to reports of considerable importance respecting the conduct and treatment of prisoners, that the Speaker of that day held he was out of order, and said, that such extracts as those which he had pro-
1065Lord J. Russell
1066"The Northern Whig of yesterday, referring to our late articles on the municipal question, deprecates the idea of sectarianism having any influence on the selection of corporators in Belfast, and declares that people will care little for the religion of the parties if they be otherwise qualified. This would be sad drivel, if it were not something worse. No question was ever agitated from the beginning, not even the question of Catholic emancipation, more completely in reference to sectarianism than this one."Vindicator"As regards Belfast, we have looked closely into the probable state of the franchise in the different wards, and we can safely promise to Reformers a decided majority in the council. It is time to consider what proportion of that majority, or rather of the candidates hereafter to form it, will be selected from the Catholic body. If the 30,000 Catholics in Belfast be permitted, without the heat and excitement of a contest to select eight councillors and two aldermen out of the forty gentlemen to be chosen by these officers, we can promise that they will seek no more; it would not be candid to omit adding, that they will be content with no less. The Catholics of the town will speedily meet to put forward their views in a more distinct manner, and to arrange de-details important to success. An appeal will then be made to Protestant Reformers, the result of which we heartily trust will be a warm co-operation between both." then resumed, and proceeded to read in the following terms the extract to which he had previously referred.
1066"The Northern Whig of yesterday, referring to our late articles on the municipal question, deprecates the idea of sectarianism having any influence on the selection of corporators in Belfast, and declares that people will care little for the religion of the parties if they be otherwise qualified. This would be sad drivel, if it were not something worse. No question was ever agitated from the beginning, not even the question of Catholic emancipation, more completely in reference to sectarianism than this one."Vindicator"As regards Belfast, we have looked closely into the probable state of the franchise in the different wards, and we can safely promise to Reformers a decided majority in the council. It is time to consider what proportion of that majority, or rather of the candidates hereafter to form it, will be selected from the Catholic body. If the 30,000 Catholics in Belfast be permitted, without the heat and excitement of a contest to select eight councillors and two aldermen out of the forty gentlemen to be chosen by these officers, we can promise that they will seek no more; it would not be candid to omit adding, that they will be content with no less. The Catholics of the town will speedily meet to put forward their views in a more distinct manner, and to arrange de-details important to success. An appeal will then be made to Protestant Reformers, the result of which we heartily trust will be a warm co-operation between both."Mr. E. Tennent
10681067Hear, hear, from Sir G. Sinclair. regretted that his hon. Friend had made the present motion, and he hoped that his hon. Friends who had moved and seconded the amendment would be content with having delivered their speeches against the bill, and would not press the amendment to a division. He felt quite assured that if they did, the division would be misunderstood, and the conduct of those on that side of the House who voted against his hon. Friend's amendment would be subjected to being both misinterpreted and misrepresented. If, however, a division was pressed, then he must act under the circumstances in the way which he believed to be the most consistent with the course he had hitherto taken, and with the general views which he entertained on the subject of the bill, and that would be by voting against the amendment. He might have absented himself altogether, but he was adverse to shrinking from the responsibility of taking one line or other upon a question of so much importance, and in respect to which from first to last he had been obliged by circumstances to bear an active part. He was free to admit to his hon. Friends that he did not approve of the bill in its present shape, and that if the question was whether or not it should in that shape pass into a law, he should vote against it. [10681067Hear, hear, from Sir G. Sinclair.Mr. Shaw
 wished to arrest the course of this pernicious measure, and should, therefore, support the amendment. None of those amendments which even his right hon. Friend, the Recorder of Dublin, had considered necessary had been carried. The bill would take the government of the corporations out of the hands of those who were friendly to the connection with England and to the institutions of the country, and put it into the hands of those who were desirous to overthrow those institutions and to destroy the English connection. It was true that the Bill would be purified of much of its dross in another place; but no change which it would undergo there would render it a good measure. He was bound, however, as a Member of that House, to deal with the bill as it then was, without looking to any probable alteration elsewhere, and he would, therefore, vote against the third reading.Colonel Perceval
 would also vote against the third reading. If he had been able to attend when the question was put upon the second reading, he would have voted against it.Colonel Maxwell
107410731072v.1071 said, that on a former occasion he had stated his reasons for opposing the bill; not that he disapproved of the bill, but because he could not obtain from the noble Lord opposite any assurance that he would accompany that measure by another which would prevent the publication of defamatory matter. That was the reason why he voted against the bill, and not that he disapproved of the proposed measure. He had a motion fixed for Thursday next, when he intended to move for the appointment of a com-
107410731072v.1071Sir E. Sugden
1075 hoped that the questions as to the Bill before the House, and the restrictions which the House would impose upon the publication of the printed papers would be considered quite distinct questions. It would not be fair to the Members of that House that they should be called upon to place the printing and publishing of the papers under duress in order to induce parties in that House to pass the Bill. They were not probably called upon to offer a premium for passing the Bill. The vigilance of the Committee as at present constituted, and the rules and regulations of the House, were guarantees amply sufficient, with any additional restrictions such as those suggested by the hon. and learned Member. He was glad to find that the hon. and learned Member was favourable to the
1075Mr. Warburton
 said that it had been his lot to sit upon committees; and, if the hon. and learned Member opposite had had experience of the working of committees, and their mode of discharging their duties, he would find that there did not exist any necessity for several of the recommendations or suggestions which he had given. He was rejoiced to hear the testimony of the hon. and learned Member as to the benefit accruing to the public by the sale of the publications. For his own part, since the papers had been sold he had himself experienced the greatest relief, because persons who on former occasions used to apply to him for the reports had thus an opportunity of furnishing themselves with those documents at a cheap rate. The storehouse contained 2,200,000 volumes, and it was of the highest advantage to the public to have access to that treasury of information.Mr. Hume
quoad1076 was rejoiced to find that the bill was likely to have the support of the right hon. and learned Member for Ripon, and he concurred with many of the opinions which had teen delivered by that Tight hon. and learned Gentleman as to the publication of the printed papers. It was necessary that everybody should know what were the proceedings of the House, and the
quoad1076The Attorney-General
1077 would not enter into the question of the principle of the bill but he wished to know what was the intention of the noble Lord opposite with respect to the suggestion of his right hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Ripen? He should not oppose the second reading, but unless something were done to ensure the security of parties against libels, as suggested by his right hon. and learned
1077Mr. Darby
10791078"In concluding their report, your committee feel it incumbent upon them to observe that, although they have expressed a decided opinion that it is absolutely essential to the effective discharge of the most important functions of the House of Commons that the privilege of publication should exist without restriction, and that the authority to determine the extent of that privilege and the occasion for exercising it should rest exclusively with Parliament, they are not insensible to the evil which may arise from an incautious printing of Parliamentary documents, in cases wherein the character of individuals is involved, and wherein no public necessity calls for publication, or no opportunity is afforded to the party affected to give an immediate answer to the inculpation. Your committee are aware that, without the previous sanction of this House, no publication of its proceedings can be privileged; and that all presumption, therefore, of malicious motives is excluded; neither have they the slightest doubt that, if the attention of Parliament were directed to each individual case, ample precautions would be taken against the infliction of unnecessary pain, and still more against the possible case that the privilege of Parliament may be abused for the mere gratification of resentments connected with personal or party differences. But, amidst the pressure of the important and multi-
1078—Sir, I rise merely to point out what should have been stated some time since, that some of those who have taken the strongest part in asserting the privileges of this House have also not overlooked every other consideration, but, on the contrary, have done all they could, in the preliminary matter which led to these proceedings, to except individual character from injury. And I think I can most satisfactorily vindicate myself from any charge of that nature. For when the report of the committee of 1837 was made to this House on the subject of our privileges, as Involved in the present question, at my suggestion these words were appended to it. And I now wish to be permitted to read them to the House, to show that some, at least, of those who have been the most strenuous supporters of its privileges have also been the last to desire to assert them to the injury of individuals, or the prejudice of private character. In the concluding pages of the report of March 8, 1837, I find the following remarks:—
10791078"In concluding their report, your committee feel it incumbent upon them to observe that, although they have expressed a decided opinion that it is absolutely essential to the effective discharge of the most important functions of the House of Commons that the privilege of publication should exist without restriction, and that the authority to determine the extent of that privilege and the occasion for exercising it should rest exclusively with Parliament, they are not insensible to the evil which may arise from an incautious printing of Parliamentary documents, in cases wherein the character of individuals is involved, and wherein no public necessity calls for publication, or no opportunity is afforded to the party affected to give an immediate answer to the inculpation. Your committee are aware that, without the previous sanction of this House, no publication of its proceedings can be privileged; and that all presumption, therefore, of malicious motives is excluded; neither have they the slightest doubt that, if the attention of Parliament were directed to each individual case, ample precautions would be taken against the infliction of unnecessary pain, and still more against the possible case that the privilege of Parliament may be abused for the mere gratification of resentments connected with personal or party differences. But, amidst the pressure of the important and multi-
1078Sir R. Peel
ex post factoex post facto felt the importance of the measure before the House to be so great, that, though his right hon. Friend had given his assent to the second reading of it without comment, he had such a repugnance to some of its provisions that he should depart from his example, and offer one or two observations on them. In the first place, he objected most strongly to the ex post factoex post factoSir R. Inglis
—I shall certainly give my most serious attention to the suggestions of the right hon. and learned Member for Ripon; but I think it is ranch better not to enter on their discussion at present. It is a very important subject to which they refer, and I think this is a proper time to revise the rules and regulations of this House in respect to it. These, however, I must say, are much more careful to prevent abuses in that particular than perhaps most hon. Members are aware of. However, as I said, I shall take the whole subject into consideration. With regard to the retrospective clauses, many precedents have been cited, and I shall weigh their applicability in every particular before I proceed with the Bill.Lord J. Russell.
1098 pointed out the total inadequacy of a police force, armed only with small staves to preserve the peace, or restore order in cases of violent disturbance. In such cases, the only security
1098General Sharpe
—With regard generally to the Eccesiastical Courts Bill, I may say that it was considered very much in the committee of the House of Lords two or three years ago, and the result was that it became the determination of that House not to proceed with it until another Bill then before the House had passed. That Bill is the Clergy Discipline Bill, and there have been various discussions on it since, which led to no result. I have no official information on the subject, but I have reason to believe that a Bill of the same nature is likely to originate in the other House of Parliament, and in that case we shall be in a better position to proceed with the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill here. Some of the parts of that measure, those for the abolition of criminal jurisdiction, I mean to proceed with separately. With regard to the County Courts Bill, it has been delayed at! the suggestion of my noble and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor, until we shall have received the reports of the bankruptcy and insolvency commissioners of inquiry,Lord J. Russell.
ultimatum,1087ultimatum1086l.l. said, it was hardly necessary for him to say much, as the hon. Member for Kilkenny had only gone over ground which had been repeatedly gone over. The hon. Gentleman said they ought strictly to limit their expenditure to the average revenue of the last two years, totally regardless of the foreign or colonial relations of the country. That was the principle to which the House was asked to agree, and to which he trusted it would not be disposed to agree. The hon. Gentleman said very truly that he ought to have made these observations on the navy estimates, which was a much more proper occasion for them; for what was the fact? There had been a considerable increase in the navy estimates this year amounting to 400,000ultimatum,1087ultimatum1086l.l.Lord J. Russell
 thought that these reports would not be made in sufficient time to be available this year; and he was, therefore, of opinion that something should be done in regard to the County Courts Bill without delay.Mr. Hawes
 desired to know of the noble Lord the Colonial Secretary, what he intended to do with the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill and the County Courts Bill? Whether he meant to abolish the criminal jurisdiction of the former, and whether he designed to press forward the latter? as there were a great many private Bills for the recovery of small debts pending which the General County Courts bill stopped, inasmuch as it would go to absorb their jurisdiction.Mr. Hawes
1085 said he had heard from the hon. Member for Kilkenny a great part of the speeches he had delivered on various occasions during the last three years, in which he thought he should be more correct if he said twenty years as the period the hon. Member had declaimed against what he and the country thought to be the extravagance and inefficiency of her Majesty's Ministers. He entertained no respect for them so far as political feelings went, but though the hon. Member had been declaiming against that side of the House, he invariably disappointed them—he asked what was the cause of this excess—what could be the cause of it—the want of good working; yet though the hon. Member knew this as well as he, he invariably sat down after making his speech, without taking a single effectual measure to turn them out. Could he effect this no man would rejoice at it more than he. With all this declamation how in the name of goodness happened it that the hon. Member continued to support Ministers instead of taking effectual measures to supplant them, which if he would do he should have his cordial support. The hon. Member talked of withdrawing troops from Canada—he thought a further increase necessary if the Government went on as they did. He had not assented to any one act' of her Majesty's Government—no man living had a worse opinion of them in their political and official capacity—they knew nothing, and he thought if they did they were not
1085Colonel Sibthorp
11001099 considered that the statement which had been made ought to be very convincing to the House that the force which bad been moved for on the 2d.
11001099Sir H. Hardinge
 again urged upon her Majesty's Government the propriety of coming to some settlement of this question the more especially after what had been urged by her Majesty's late Secretary at War.Sir H. Hardinge
s.d.s.1104 said he could hardly doubt, after the statement that had been made by the noble Lord, and right hon. Gentleman opposite, that up to a certain time there had been something wrong in the rate of payment of our Indian troops. He could not approve of fixing the value of the rupee at too high a mark. He hoped the House would see that this false
s.d.s.1104Sir H. Hardinge
 observed, that if a warrant were issued requiring the pay to be given in rupees, the soldier's permanent pay would be in silver, which would be subject to no fluctuation, and this would put an end to these unfortunate discussions, which would continue as long as the present grievance remained unredressed.Sir H. Hardinge
l.l.l.10841083l.l.l.l.l.l.1082l. said, that from statements laid on the table of the House, hon. Members would find that they were proceeding to vote their establishments upon the old extravagant scale, while last year there had been an excess of expenditure over income of a million and a half, and every probability of that excess this year being two millions. Now, he had always been of opinion that before any estimates at all were voted, the Government ought to give to the House an estimate of the whole expense of all the establishments together, and also an estimate of the expected income of the country. It had been shadowed forth by the noble Lord, that shortly after Easter they were to have some new taxes. He was against any new taxes, and he wanted to see if they could not do without them. With that view he had been looking at the state of the revenue, and he found that the increased expenditure had only risen from those establishments which were annually voted by that House. He was sorry to say that that system was proceeding, and up to the present time, he might fairly reckon the excess of expenditure over income at six millions sterling. Under these circumstances, the House must see the difficulty of avoiding the imposition of new taxes. The balance sheet he held in his hand showed a deficiency of a million and a half, and that was not owing to any deficiency in the revenue, for, on the contrary, the revenue was in an extremely prosperous state. Taking from the year 1833 to the present time, he was surprised to find that the amount of the net income exceeded the average of the last seven years. From 1833 up to the present time (with the exception of 1836, a year of unusual excitement), the average amount of the net income was forty-six millions and a quarter to forty-six and a half millions, but in 1838 the revenue was actually 47,333,000l.l.l.10841083l.l.l.l.l.l.1082l.Mr. Hume
1097 had expected some notice to be taken of what had fallen from him as to the number of men employed in the home service. It might have been supposed, from the eloquent address of the right hon. Gentleman, that there were no troops in the kingdom except the 5,000 that he had alluded to. The right hon. Gentleman should remember that there was such a thing as extravagance as well as economy. He remembered an anecdote relating to himself, which, as it was short, he would would tell the house. He was standing at the bar talking to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when somebody asked "Who are those?" The answer was, "They are penny wise and pound foolish." Now he admitted, that he would rather at any time be "penny wise" than "pound foolish." He would like to know how the Duke of Wellington had continued with only 68,000 men, to maintain the honour and interest of Great Britain with as much credit if not more than the present Government. The numbers of men for the army had been gradually increasing. If the right hon. Gentleman would look only as far back as 1837 and 1838, he would find that the number was 81,000, and now the Government wanted 93,000. The right hon. Gentleman said that he voted economically in voting for the increase. What he then said was, that in the state the country was alleged to be in by the Government in consequence of the discontents that prevailed, he could not refuse to place at their disposal the sum they required. The right hon. Gentleman forgot to state what he added, which was, that in taking that course, he hoped they would remove as speedily as possible the cause of those discontents. Had that been done? If not, he then cast the blame upon the
1097Mr. Hume
d.1106 said, that the noble Lord (Lord Howick) had sent out a warrant to India without consulting the Court of Directors, who at a subsequent period had unanimously objected to it. Their protest, bearing date the 2nd of December, 1837, directed the attention of the President of the Board of Control to this warrant, which had been despatched without the slightest communication with the directors; and the Court unanimously protested against the warrant, which
d.1106Sir R. Jenkins
d.d.d.d.l.d. agreed with the noble Lord, that there had been a grievance in reference to this matter, of which the troops in India had a right to complain; but he thought the offer which had been made by the East India Company was a perfectly fair one. That offer was to this effect:—The grievance complained of affected only, he believed, the troops in the Madras and Bombay Presidencies; let them then see what the rate of pay was of a private soldier on any of the stations. A private soldier was allowed daily a ration of one pound of bread, and one pound of meat, and 7d.d.d.d.l.d.Mr. Macaulay
10961095l.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.1094l.l.s.l.l.l.l.1093l.1092l.l.1091l.d.l.1090l.1089l.l.l.l.1088l. said, that his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) had relieved him from the necessity of making some remarks which otherwise he should have thought necessary in reply to the speech of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. He should, therefore, at present only say that any person who had heard that speech, and who was unacquainted with the previous transactions of the country, would have been very slow to believe that the military establishment proposed this year was actually lower in men and charge than that for which the hon. Gentlemen himself both voted and spoke. It was only on the 2d of August last, when his noble Friend proposed a supplemental estimate of 75,00010961095l.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.1094l.l.s.l.l.l.l.1093l.1092l.l.1091l.d.l.1090l.1089l.l.l.l.1088l.Mr. Macaulay
 seconded the amendment.(Coventry)Mr. Williams (Coventry)
 thought that the soldier in India ought to receive the intrinsic value of the coin in which he was paid, and that would remove all the discontent which existed. It was utterly impossible, however, in his opinion, for the Government to remove the difficulty occasioned by the fluctuation in the exchanges.Sir C. Grey
1108 said, that the real facts of the case were these: the warrant of his noble Friend was made by inserting the words "soldier abroad" applicable to troops in India. He had at the time particularly impressed on his noble Friend the importance of his warrant not applying to India, and he pointed out to him that the use of the words "soldier abroad," as well as "soldier at home," must of course make the warrant applicable to India, and that whether the warrant were sent out officially to India or not. That warrant, was, however, sent out officially by his noble Friend to the Governor-General. The Court of Directors were not only not consulted by his noble Friend but his noble Friend took the very course which they begged and implored of him, and he begged and implored of his noble Friend, not to take. He had therefore, acting under a sense of the responsibility belonging to his office, taken it upon himself, notwithstanding the warrant sent out by his noble Friend, to write to the Governor-General, telling him that it would not be desirable to act upon the warrant, as an amicable discussion upon the subject was going on very comfortably between him and his noble friend, which would no doubt terminate in a satisfactory manner. He also mentioned to his noble Friend at the head of the Government, that he could not continue to hold his present office unless some misconception on the part of the Secretary at War was removed. In that condition the matter now stood. The warrant had gone out, but it had not been acted upon, and he could only say now, that the despatch raising
1108Sir. J. Hobhouse
l. had to state that no change had yet been made; but he was not, nor was the East India Company to blame that a change had not been effected. The East India Company, as well as the Government, were aware, that it was necessary to make an equalization of the pay of the troops in the different presidencies. At present the rate of pay was different in the Madras and Bombay presidencies from what it was in Bengal, and the company had been perfectly willing to equalize the rate of pay. That equalization would cost the company 45,000l.Sir J. Hobhouse
—The omission of the title in the schedule had settled the question in accordance with the opinion of his noble Friend.Sir J. Hobhouse.
—All he had affirmed was, that the omission before alluded to, of the schedule, had got rid of the difficulty, the question being in doubt before.Sir J. C. Hobhouse.
1105 said, that this was no new arrangement; it took place in 1792, and up to 1813, there was no difference between the real and the supposed value of the rupee; but the great change effected by the right hon. Gentleman's (Sir R. Peel's) bill, touched India as well as England, and down went the rupee as did everythihg else. The opinion of Lord William Bentinck had been referred to, but he would beg to refer to a despatch framed according to the proposition of that noble Lord, sent by the Board of Directors to the Governor-general of India, with the sanction of the Commander-in-chief. The conclusion of that despatch was to the effect that the object of transmitting it was to explain the incorrectness of the Governor-general's assertion that the King's soldier in India did not receive so much silver as he was entitled to by the warrant, for that, in fact, he received more. He contended, then, that the soldier in Bengal received actually a larger sum than he did under the warrant of his noble Friend. In the year 1798, a report had gone forth, through unofficial channels, that a change similar to that now suggested, was about to be made. What was the effect of that report? A mutiny,
1105Sir J. C. Hobhouse
d.s. thought, that before anything was done in this matter it would be well to refer to the evidence which was given before the select committee on Indian affairs by several distinguished officers. It appeared that in 1824 a general order was given that the rupee should be valued comparatively with the sterling money of this country, at 2d.s.Sir R. Peel
d.s. said, that this was too important a matter to be left in doubt, and therefore he hoped his right hon. Friend would give him a clear and explicit answer. Was he not stating the fact when he said that the warrant contained no reference to the rupee question? Was it not to this effect, that it merely made it clear that the troops when serving abroad without rations had a right to 1d.s.Viscount Howick
1103d.s.s.d.s.1102d.s.s.d.s.s.d.s. could assure the committee that he was unwilling to bring this subject under consideration at that time, but with the views which he entertained upon this question, be felt himself compelled to say a few words in reference to it. This was no question of an equalization of the rate of pay, and the point was, whether it was fair or just that the troops in India should be paid in rupees, calculated each at the value of 21103d.s.s.d.s.1102d.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.Viscount Howick
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Control, whether any change had yet been effected with reference to the pay of the British troops serving in India—he meant in regard to their pay being made in the currency of the country?Viscount Howick
 said, that so far from agreeing with the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that the number of men was too large, he thought it too small. He could not avoid apprehending that the means provided were hardly sufficient to diminish the severe pressure which he knew to be felt at present by the infantry of the line. Throughout his tenure of office he had considered this subject deserving of the greatest attention, and had frequently impressed upon the Government the necessity of taking decided steps to improve the condition of that portion of the army. He now felt some disappointment in one or two respects. He regretted that much more time and service would be required before the proposed veteran force in Canada could be established, and had hoped to have heard that some further increase of the black troops had taken place. Experience had shewn, and inquiry had proved, that the mortality which occurred amongst the British soldiers in our West Indian colonies was of a most frightful magnitude; and there seemed to him no other mode of effectually meeting that evil but by some further increase of the black troops. He could not understand, if neither of these measures was to be adopted, and if, as he had understood the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary at War, that no modification of the existing system of depots was to be made, how; consistently with the demands of our colonial service, the right hon. Gentleman would be able, during the present year, to provide that relief, which, in fairness and in justice to the British army, ought to be afforded. The right hon. Gentleman stated, that the army in Canada had been there for eleven or twelve years, and yet he said, it would not be possible to remove more than one regiment this year. The general statement of the right hon. Gentleman he thought highly satisfactory, although he certainly had hoped, that upon these two respects, more could have been done.Viscount Howick
 asked if his right hon. Friend would undertake to say, in his place in that House, that the warrant which he had sent out contained one line that was not a consolidation of former warrants?Viscount Howick
, in reply, said that they ought to give the soldier his pay in the intrinsic value of the silver in which they paid him; although he hoped his right hon. Friend would not give up the system of regimental contract with which the soldiers were well pleased, in order, that a compensation might be made to the East India Company.Viscount Howick
1107 said, that having already spoken, he should not think of detaining the House at any length, but it was impossible for him altogether to pass over what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Chairman of the East India Company. The hon. Gentleman had stated that he (Lord Howick) when he was Secretary-at-War, had been guilty of the gross impropriety of advising his late Majesty to make a change in the rate of payment of the troops in India, without communicating his intentions to the Board of Directors of the East India Company, and of transmitting a warrant to India in accordance with those views. Now, nothing could be so unfounded as that statement. When he came into office he found a warrant in preparation, which, made no alteration in the rate of payment, and in 1837 that warrant was issued to the army in general, but it was not at once transmitted to India, because his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Control, called on him to withhold it for a time. It was, therefore, withheld, and it was not till some months afterwards, at his (Lord Howick's) suggestion, that no advantage whatever could be obtained by withholding it, as the question had already
1107Viscount Howick
1126 adverted to the want of uniformity which existed in banking transactions in different parts of the king-
1126Mr. M. Attwood
11381137113611351134 said, that in the present slate of the House he should make his statement as short as possible. He was induced to trespass on the House on the present occasion, riot on account of the prisoners, not; on account of any sympathy he felt for the act of which they were convicted, not from the merits of the case, or that he thought they did not deserve punishment, but because he thought the law had been; strained against the prisoners. There had been a doubt, and it was the opinion of nine-tenths of the people of this country, that wherever there was a doubt it should be interpreted in favour of the prisoner. There was a very strong feeling in the country on the subject, and he need not inform the House there had been more petitions presented on this subject than on many others. He had procured from the Journal Office the number of petitions and signatures on this subject, and he found the number of petitions up to the present time exceeded 100, and the signatures 120,000, and the House must bear in mind nearly half the petitions were signed by Chairmen on behalf of great public meetings, and there was therefore a very strong feeling throughout the country on this subject; not, he was aware, among the upper or perhaps the middle classes, but among the working classes there was as strong feeling on this subject as upon any question that had agitated them for some time. It was not that they Sympathised with Frost, or wished that he bad succeeded in his attempt, but because, as was invariably stated in he petitions, they believed the law had been strained against the prisoners, and that they had not had justice done to them. He would not argue this case as a lawyer, nor set up his opinion against that of the legal Gentlemen; but he said it was a case that
11381137113611351134Mr. Lender
"To the Lord Marquess of Normanby, &c.""J. WILLIAMS."J. PARKE,"N. E. TINDAL,"Under the circumstances above mentioned, we beg leave to represent to your Lordship that in our opinion there is no ground whatever to entitle the prisoner, John Frost, to a free pardon."It is needless to state to your Lordship; that as to any of the communications with, or understanding between, the learned counsel and the prisoner, which are stated at length in the memorial, we are entirely ignorant.1142"We beg to inform your Lordship that we think the circumstance stated and relied on in the memorial, viz., that two of the judges under the special commission ultimately declared their opinion in favour of the objection, does in our judgment make no difference whatever; nor do we think that any inclination in their minds at the time of the trial ought to affect the question; the law is taken from the majority of the judges when consulted,"At the time of the discussion we all of us entertained serious doubts; more or less strong, on the objection that was raised before us. And if the law had obliged us to come to an immediate and final decision, without the power of consulting the judges, which the law does not, we were not prepared, without much further consideration, nor without hearing the argument on the part of the Crown concluded, to come to any determination on the point. We, therefore, following the ordinary course pursued on similar occasions, decided the point against the prisoner by allowing the trial to proceed, subject to the revision before referred to."With respect to the statement in the memorial, of what took place at the trial, so far as relates to ourselves, we cannot but remark that the learned counsel labour under a complete misapprehension, at which we are the more surprised, as we expressly stated that no distinction would be made between this and other cases tried at the assizes, but that it must follow in the Ordinary course.1141"As to the law, the uniform practice has been, so far back as we have any means of knowledge, that if the judge upon the trial of an indictment feels any serious doubt as to an objection that occurs in point of law, he decides the point against the prisoner, and al-
1141"My Lord—We have perused and considered the memorial of Sir Frederick Pollock and Mr. Kelly, counsel for the prisoner John Frost, who was tried under the late Special Commission at Monmouth, and beg to inform your Lordship, that the memorial appears to us to be founded upon an entire misconception of the law relating to the course of proceeding in criminal cases; and, so far as we the judges under the special commission are concerned, an entire misapprehension of the fact."Westminster-hall, Jan, 31, 1840."The Lord Marquess of Normanby, &c.""N. C. TINDAL."And obedient servant,"Your Lordship's faithful"I have the honour to remain, my Lord,"I will have the honour of calling on your Lordship to-morrow at the rising of the court, if I should receive Any intimation to that effect."The result, therefore, of the determination of the judges is, that the conviction is right."All the judges agreed, that if the objection had been made in due time, the effect of it would have been a postponement of the trial, in order td give time for a proper delivery of the list."But, secondly, a majority of the judges, in the proportion of nine to six, are of opinion that the objection to the delivery of the list of witnesses was not taken in due time."First, a majority of the judges, in the proportion of nine to six, are of opinion that the delivery of the list of witnesses was not a good delivery in point of law.vvv"My Lord—I have the honour to inform your Lordship, that the argument upon the three cases of the Queen vvv"Westminster-hall, 28th Jan. 1840.1140 was extremely sorry to have t6 address the House upon a motion of this nature. He had hoped that the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Westminster, would not have thought it right to make that House a court of appeal in a case of this description from the regularly established tribunals of the kingdom: but the hon. Gentleman had deemed it proper to pursue a different course, and laying aside all reference to the prerogative of mercy as exercised by the Crown, had churned it as an act of right and justice from the House, that these convicts should receive a free pardon. The hon. Gentleman had stated that these three individuals had been tried for a political Offence. In his mind the crime with which those individuals were charged deserved a somewhat stronger name. It was true that a preliminary objection was taken to the extent at the trial, that the exact from of the law of treason had not been complied with. It had been stated, that the opinion of two out of three of the judges who presided at the trial was in favour bf the prisoners, and it was then contended that the majority of the judges being of that opinion they ought to have decided the point, upon the trial, and to have given the prisoners the benefit of it. Now, it appeared to him, that the fact of the two judges having declined to decide the question upon the instant, showed that a great doubt existed in their minds, and that they were anxious to have the opinion of the rest of the judges before an ultimate decision was given upon it. It had been stated that that was not the usual practice; He should probably be followed by others who were more conversant with the law, and who would inform the House correctly upon the point; but be apprehended the usual legal forms
"To the Lord Marquess of Normanby, &c.""J. WILLIAMS."J. PARKE,"N. E. TINDAL,"Under the circumstances above mentioned, we beg leave to represent to your Lordship that in our opinion there is no ground whatever to entitle the prisoner, John Frost, to a free pardon."It is needless to state to your Lordship; that as to any of the communications with, or understanding between, the learned counsel and the prisoner, which are stated at length in the memorial, we are entirely ignorant.1142"We beg to inform your Lordship that we think the circumstance stated and relied on in the memorial, viz., that two of the judges under the special commission ultimately declared their opinion in favour of the objection, does in our judgment make no difference whatever; nor do we think that any inclination in their minds at the time of the trial ought to affect the question; the law is taken from the majority of the judges when consulted,"At the time of the discussion we all of us entertained serious doubts; more or less strong, on the objection that was raised before us. And if the law had obliged us to come to an immediate and final decision, without the power of consulting the judges, which the law does not, we were not prepared, without much further consideration, nor without hearing the argument on the part of the Crown concluded, to come to any determination on the point. We, therefore, following the ordinary course pursued on similar occasions, decided the point against the prisoner by allowing the trial to proceed, subject to the revision before referred to."With respect to the statement in the memorial, of what took place at the trial, so far as relates to ourselves, we cannot but remark that the learned counsel labour under a complete misapprehension, at which we are the more surprised, as we expressly stated that no distinction would be made between this and other cases tried at the assizes, but that it must follow in the Ordinary course.1141"As to the law, the uniform practice has been, so far back as we have any means of knowledge, that if the judge upon the trial of an indictment feels any serious doubt as to an objection that occurs in point of law, he decides the point against the prisoner, and al-
1141"My Lord—We have perused and considered the memorial of Sir Frederick Pollock and Mr. Kelly, counsel for the prisoner John Frost, who was tried under the late Special Commission at Monmouth, and beg to inform your Lordship, that the memorial appears to us to be founded upon an entire misconception of the law relating to the course of proceeding in criminal cases; and, so far as we the judges under the special commission are concerned, an entire misapprehension of the fact."Westminster-hall, Jan, 31, 1840."The Lord Marquess of Normanby, &c.""N. C. TINDAL."And obedient servant,"Your Lordship's faithful"I have the honour to remain, my Lord,"I will have the honour of calling on your Lordship to-morrow at the rising of the court, if I should receive Any intimation to that effect."The result, therefore, of the determination of the judges is, that the conviction is right."All the judges agreed, that if the objection had been made in due time, the effect of it would have been a postponement of the trial, in order td give time for a proper delivery of the list."But, secondly, a majority of the judges, in the proportion of nine to six, are of opinion that the objection to the delivery of the list of witnesses was not taken in due time."First, a majority of the judges, in the proportion of nine to six, are of opinion that the delivery of the list of witnesses was not a good delivery in point of law.vvv"My Lord—I have the honour to inform your Lordship, that the argument upon the three cases of the Queen vvv"Westminster-hall, 28th Jan. 1840.1140Mr. Fox Maule
 hoped the inquiry would be of a thoroughly practical character. He thought the tendency of the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, and the words of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer's motion, had a tendency to limit the inquiry within too narrow a compass. It seemed impossible to shut out from an inquiry of this nature all consideration of the general question of the currency, and one or two collateral points. He was inclined to regret that the information already obtained had not been thought sufficient to justify legislation. Perhaps, however, the inconvenience of further delay might be Well purchased by the result.Mr. Hawes
113211311130ll said, that he thought the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had misunderstood the hon. Member for Kilkenny, when he supposed him to have recommended the suppression of all promissory notes. All that he had understood the hon. Member to recommend was the introduction of a larger quantity of metallic money into our circulation, as was the case in France, to the extent perhaps of putting down 5113211311130llMr. Charles Wood
11251124 perfectly agreed with the right hon. Gentleman as to the importance to the nation of inquiries upon subjects of this nature at all times and under all circumstances; he agreed also, that at the present moment there were circumstances which would give it peculiar interest and importance. They had just escaped a serious crisis of the monetary system, and he was sure that Gentlemen who had attended to what had taken place last year, would own, that if the causes of the decline of our foreign trade had been a little more aggravated during that period, the consequence to the country would have been very serious. He could not think that it would be advisable to introduce into this inquiry the question of the basis of the currency, for he was sure no man would look at the announcement of such an inquiry being entered upon without attaching to it a much larger and more critical importance than was attached to it by his hon. Friend himself. His hon. Friend had compared the results of the several systems of England and France in a way which he thought did not necessarily elicit the fact of the superiority of the latter. He said, that there bad been no pamphlets published in France on the subject of the currency, but that there had been a great number in England. He had good reason to believe, that many Gentlemen had given their attention to this subject, and that many valuable suggestions had been made by there, an advantage from which the French public had been debarred. It was not his intention to make any elaborate or exclusive observations upon the state of the currency, for he did not think that the appointment of this Committee was the proper occasion to do so; but he thought, that considerable benefit would result from the appointment of this Committee, if only from the accurate information which it would be the means of
11251124Mr. Grote
 did not wish to oppose the motion of the right hon. Gentleman; but with regard to what he had said on the subject of the Bank of Ireland, he must beg to make one observation. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to say, with regard to the Bank of Ireland, that if he were left to himself, he should be inclined to renew the measure last year brought in by the then Chancellor of the Exchequer (now Lord Monteagle), but that he should take advantage of the inquiries of the committee, which he was now about to appoint, and regulate his future conduct on this subject by such information as he might derive therefrom. Now, this was a course of proceeding against which he must protest, because he thought that it was not right that a committee should be made to discharge the duties of a Chancellor of the Exchequer.Mr. J. Ellis
1150 said, he could not imagine why his hon. Friend should be so urgent in his attempts to induce him to postpone this motion, as he knew of no advantage that could attend his adoption of that advice, unless it were, that the House would have the benefit of the legal knowledge of those hon. and learned Gentlemen, which it could have just as well at any other time, provided they would undertake to bring the question again before the House. For his own part, he would attend at any time, and be happy to do all in his power to further any object they might have in view in favour of these Unhappy men. He could not, however, see why he should trouble the House to listen to a long debate, and then tell them that he would not divide, because two hon. Gentlemen did not happen to be present. He had never expected that there would be anything but a small minority upon this Motion, and begged of the friends of these
1150Mr. Leader
1139, in rising to second the motion of his hon. Friend, did so, not on the merits of the prisoners, because he could not but think that the offence of those parties had been most detrimental in every point of view. It had been detrimental to the cause of public liberty. He should say, that no occurrence in his time had given him more concern than the lamentable results of that rash and foolish undertaking. He did not rise, therefore, for the purpose of palliating the offence of the parties in question, but he believed that a very general impression existed among large masses in the country, that those parties had not been treated in the way in which other individuals, under similar circumstances might have expected. He hoped that he should hear something stated by the right hon. Member, the Under Secretary of State, which might remove that impression, because it was one of the most injurious ones he could conceive. He thought that the prisoners in this case had not had all the advantages which the Act of Parliament had provided for them, and that the lists, as had been often stated, had not been duly delivered. He had been informed that in criminal cases it was not usual to refer questions of the kind to such a tribunal as the fifteen judges, and he had been told that it was usual for judges to give their decisions, immediately. When Sir F. Pollock had asked on the trial if the parties would be in no worse condition, than if the case had been decided on at once, the answer of the judges was, that
1139Mr. Hume
11231122 thought, that the objection of his hon. Friend, the Member for Car-low, as to the restricted nature of the proposed inquiry was a groundless one, so far as the matters went to which his hon. Friend had referred. He apprehended from the wording of the motion, that all the topics referred to by his hon. Friend would be open to the inquiry of the committee. He apprehended, however, that one of the principal objects in proposing an inquiry of this sort would be, to put an end to that ever-varying state of currency which existed, owing to the particular condition of establishments having power to issue paper in lieu of money. But there was this additional consideration, which he thought the committee should inquire into, namely, whether our currency was a correct one or not. So important were these points, as relating to the subject of banking, that if the committee were not to be at liberty to go into them, he feared their labours would be in a great degree useless. He certainly entertained a different opinion now from that which he had entertained some years ago on our present currency system,
11231122Mr. Hume
 explained. The tight hon. Baronet had misunderstood him in supposing that he wished to return to a metallic currency. He certainly desired that they should approach nearer to a bullion currency than they were at present, but under the existing circumstances of the country he never meant that they should return to an entirely metallic currency.Mr. Hume
ss trusted that the committee would take care that good security should be given that the notes issued by the banks that were thus to have the privilege of coining money—for he could scarcely give it any other name—should; be good and genuine. He congratulated the House on the appointment of the committee, but he decidedly thought some guarantee should be given that the notes issued should be good. How were the public to know whether a note was worth 20ssMr. Slaney
Duncombe1147instanter11461145 said, that though this question had been raised in a House not very full of Members, still it was one of very great importance, and he trusted the result of the discussion would be to dispel the erroneous impressions which had been created in the public mind, and especially in the manufacturing districts, on the subject. He was prepared to say, that the sentence carried into effect in these three cases was consonant to law, to justice, and to every consideration of public expediency. In considering this matter it was material to keep distinct the question of guilt and the question of law, and it was a great satisfaction to his mind that the House had heard the frank and full admission of the hon. Member for Finsbury and others, that the crime of which these persons had been found guilty was one of a most atrocious nature. He rejoiced at this admission, because it was important that no misunderstanding should exist on this question, and that it should not be supposed that any party in the House regarded it as a mere political offence, but, on the contrary, that all deemed it to be that which in reality it was
Duncombe1147instanter11461145Sir S. Lushington
11441143 said, that although there was much in the argument just addressed to the House by the hon. Member, the Under Secretary for the Home Department, still he must say, that in the concluding part of the hon. Member's speech the non. Member had mixed up feelings of pity with points' of law in a manner of which he could not but disapprove. If this were a mere question of crime, and riot One of law, he should be prepared to say, that there never were criminals whose fives were more justly forfeited to the offended laws of their country than the individuals Whose case had now been brought under the consideration of the House. But he repeated,
11441143Mr. T. Duncombe
1121lll1120 did not rise to object to the present motion, but to suggest that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not stated any reason why the inquiry proposed to be instituted should not apply to all banking establishments, whether issuing notes payable on demand or not. He did not see why joint stock banks not issuing their own notes should not be equally subject to inquiry; for it was quite a mistake to suppose that because they did not issue notes these establishments produced no effect upon the circulation of the country. It was scarcely possible to refer to the various existing bargains between the Bank of England and joint stock banks, by which the latter were accomodated with certain advances, upon condition of their not issuing their own notes, without coming to the necessary conclusion that the existence of these establishments must produce a very great effect upon the circulation of the country, by the discounting transactions which they were enabled to enter upon. The consequence of these bargains was,
1121lll1120Mr. Gisborne
1149 said, his hon. Colleague had argued this matter not like a lawyer, but, on the contrary, he founded his opinions upon common sense. His hon. Friend had adverted to what had been always the practice when a doubt existed amongst the judges, and had shown, that no similar occurrence to the present was to be found in the books. But the right hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets chose to pass this point over. The right hon. and learned Gentleman stated, that there were hundreds of cases of executions under similar circumstances, which had never been brought before the House, and which ought not to have been brought, because the House was not competent to comprehend them. In that case the Members of that House should not be there. Why were they there? They were there to make the laws, and yet, after making those laws, they were told that they were not competent to comprehend the laws of their own making. Did the right hon. and learned Gentleman deny, that they were competent to make the laws which he so confidently denied that they were able to comprehend? To carry out his reasoning fully, the right lion, and learned Gentleman should have come to that conclusion, and pronounced them incompetent to legislate. Now, the public took a different view of this question, for they found it difficult to comprehend how fifteen grave and learned gentlemen on the bench, who were well paid out of the taxes to comprehend the law, were so completely divided upon so simple a question as that of the exception taken on the part of Frost and his associates. There were six for, and nine against the plain, and one would think, easily answered questions, whether Monday was Saturday, whether twelve o'clock was two o'clock, or whether half-past three was a quarter to four. Yet so profound was the opinion of those gentlemen to be considered, that their decision was on no account to be approached or discussed by the House. When the decisions of the judges were characterised by clearness or common sense, he should himself be amongst the first to bow to them, but when he found them so contradictory and absurd—for no one taking a common sense view of them could pronounce them other than contradictory and absurd—he should never be deterred from calling them in question. He thought it unfair, however, in the ab-
1149Mr. Wakley
 said, that With respect to the remarks of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he thought that the object of the hon. Member would be answered by the words of the motion. He would not open the question of the abolition of bank notes. The suggestions of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth were worthy of consideration.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
11191118HamletHamlet11171116111511141113 rose, for the purpose of moving for a committee, in the words of the notice which lay on the table of the House, that is, a committee to inquire into the effects produced on the circulation of the country by the various banking establishments issuing notes payable on demand. He trusted that in making that motion, he should not find it necessary to trouble the House with any lengthened statement; but he felt that this was a question of so much importance, that it would be disrespectful in him if he did not state to the House the grounds upon which he considered that he was justified in recommending the appointment of a committee, and why it was that he thought that the House would be justified in acceding to his proposition by the appointment of such a committee. At the same time he was anxious, as he understood that there had been some misconstruction as to the nature of the committee, and the inquiries he proposed it should undertake, to do away with any misunderstanding which might exist upon the subject. With regard, then, to the propriety of appointing a committee, the first thing to which he should call the attention of the House was, the position in which the Bank of England charter stood at the present moment. The House would recollect that when his noble Friend, Lord Spencer, had recommended the renewal of the Bank of England charter, which was carried in consequence of that recommendation, that at the same time there was expressly made this condition, that it should terminate in ten years, upon notice being given of the intention so to terminate it. Consequently this notice must be given in August, 1844. They must consider that then there would be a necessity for legislating on this subject; for they would observe that notice must be given by a resolution of that House; and therefore he apprehended that they ought not to postpone to the latest period an inquiry
11191118HamletHamlet11171116111511141113The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he should not have addressed the House, had it not been for certain observations that had been thrown out with regard to the jealousy of the Bank of England. Now he begged to say, that the Bank had no jealousy whatever of joint-stock banks; and he would take the opportunity of saying that, as far as the Bank was concerned, they had no objection to inquiry. He felt satisfied that the public would afterwards be more satisfied than they at present seemed to be with the conduct of the Bank of England.Sir John Rae Reid
1129 said, it was far easier to talk of a full and comprehensive inquiry than to secure it. He could easily conceive a full and comprehensive inquiry being entered upon without the slightest practical benefit. It was quite possible to encumber such an investigation, with details, in a way to render it perfectly useless. He thought the Committee ought to be appointed, but that they should propose for themselves some definite subject of inquiry, such as this, for instance—when the Bank Charter expired, what regulations should Parliament adopt with regard to the circulation? And it was quite evident that there were certain leading considerations which ought to decide this question. It was very important, for example, to know when the report of the Committee of 1832 determined that the capital of the bank should consist of three kinds, two of securities, and one of bullion—why this system was departed from. But if they submitted a number of subjects at once to the consideration of the Committee, in the firs place the attendance would soon become limited, and then there would be nothing but confusion, embarrassment, and uncertainty in their decisions. What was the use of ascertaining how this joint-stock bank or that was conducted? Let them limit their inquiry to the question whether there should be a limited responsibility attached to such banks, and let them make their report on that point. He did not think that Parliament could consent to an inquiry which had the currency for its basis, without leading many to suppose that the maintenance of the present system was no longer to be observed; and, he for one, declared that, however plausible might be the reasons for entering upon such an investigation, Parliament had conclusively determined on a metallic currency, and on the present standard of value. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had hinted at the propriety of banishing paper from the circulation. He could understand the extinction of one pound or five pound notes, but he did not see how paper could be excluded completely without destroying credit alto-
1129Sir R. Peel
11281127 thought the question before the House was, whether the monetary system was a fit subject to be referred to the consideration of a Committee. The appointment of a Committee was strictly in conformity with precedent. All the great alterations that had been made on this subject were preceded by inquiries. A Committee was appointed in 1810, another in 1819, another in 1826, and another in 1832, which preceded the renewal of the Bank of England Charter. He thought the Legislature was right in the course they adopted on those occasions, because if there was one subject more than another on which it was desirable they should carry public opinion with them, in their legislation, it was the monetary system. Although public opinion had for the last few years taken a right direction upon this question, yet he did not think there was such a concurrence of opinion, that the public were prepared to agree in the propriety of some legislative measure without previous inquiry. The hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, had said that the monetary system was radically bad. That was owing to the difficulty of solving the problem of regulating the paper, and metallic currency. That problem had been experimented upon for thirty years by two of the most enlightened nations in the world, but they had not been able to
11281127Mr. Clay
 observed, that the receivers of notes were not the sufferers, but the shareholders.Lord Sandon
 said, he understood that an act had passed the legislature of Demerara, regulating immigration to that colony. He observed that no papers relating to that subject had been laid upon the Table of the House, and he wished to know from the noble Lord opposite whether it was intended to produce them.Lord Stanley
 seconded the motion. He did not believe, that there was any Member in that House who suffered more from defective sight than he did, and he must confess, that he experienced the greatest possible relief when the unseemly chandeliers were taken away and the Bude light substituted, and which he hoped soon to see restored.Mr. James
 said, that the half-perfected Bude light had been found superior to the wax lights, and for that reason, he would support the motion.Sir Thomas Acland
l"That it is expedient to make provision for the abolition of the First Fruits and Tenths of the Clergy as at present enforced in England and Wales, after the next avoidance; and in lieu thereof to levy an assessment of one-tenth part of the clear annual value upon all archbishoprics and bishoprics, and all dignities and benefices and other spiritual promotions above the clear yearly value of 300l, as chairman of the Committee on the First Fruits and Tenths of the Clergy, brought up the report of the whole House, by which it was resolved:—
l"That it is expedient to make provision for the abolition of the First Fruits and Tenths of the Clergy as at present enforced in England and Wales, after the next avoidance; and in lieu thereof to levy an assessment of one-tenth part of the clear annual value upon all archbishoprics and bishoprics, and all dignities and benefices and other spiritual promotions above the clear yearly value of 300lMr. Aglionby
ll.,1159l would not obtrude at any very great length on the time of the House; but as he was about to request the House, if not to rescind a resolution which they had recently come to, at least to recede from a previous determination, he thought he was bound to give a sufficient reason for asking the House to reconsider this question. Mr. Gurney had presented a petition relative to the Bude light, which had already been adopted by the Trinity House. The Bude light was the invention of Mr. Gurney, and consisted of passing a stream of oxygen gas through an Argand burner, and the light was so brilliant that the Trinity House adopted it. Mr. Gurney offered to light the House with the Bude light, and to be at the expense of the experiment. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, however, had objected to this being done at Mr. Gurney's expense, but had granted 100ll.,1159lLord Eliot
1158 wished again to rise for the purpose of saying, that he should be very glad to produce the document sought for if he possessed it, provided he had any reason to think that it bore upon the subject to which the right hon. Baronet wished to call the attention of the House. He differed altogether from the right hon. Baronet as to its bearing on
1158Lord J. Russell
 replied, that an order had been sent by the legislature of Demerara which had been disallowed, and the papers explanatory of those proceedings had been laid upon the Table of the House. There had not been any order from the Government here forwarded to Demerara, but a sketch or draught of an order had been sent which, if published in Demerara, would, he had no doubt, prove satisfactory to the Government at home. As to the production of such documents, he believed it was very unusual.Lord J. Russell
 was quite aware of the appointment of the commissioners, but he had not received any report made by the commission, neither had his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Control.Lord J. Russell
 said, he really did not know until the previous day that such a paper was in existence. He was told by the Sergeant-at-Arms that he had received some notice, but he never had any positive information that he could act upon. He was informed by the Speaker—yesterday, he thought—that this notice had been received. He moved that the whole subject be taken into consideration to-morrow.Lord J. Russell
 said, there had been no official intelligence amounting to what the hon. Member stated, namely, a declaration of war against China. Instructions had been given to the Governor-general of India to make some active preparations, and, although no intelligence of the nature alluded to had been received, he presumed that some directions given, or some act done, by the Governor-general, had given rise to the report of a declaration of war having been made.Lord J. Russell
1155 had to acquaint the House that the Sergeant-at-Arms had a communication to make with regard to certain summonses or writs which had been served upon some of the officers of that House.1155The Speaker
l would merely say, that in the bill, which, with the leave of the House he should introduce, it was not his intention to adhere rigidly to the assessment of annual Tenths, though he conceived that this would generally be considered very productive. He should, however, leave it to the House, in the progress pf the bill, to regulate the amount of payment to be made out of the higher livings for the augmentation of the lower, and to award to the labouring clergy such proportion of the real annual income of all livings above 300lMr. Baines
 was understood to inquire why that notice had not been brought forward before?Sir E. Sugden
 inquired whether or not other instructions besides those which had been communicated to the House, had been forwarded to the British Superintendent in China?Mr. G. Palmer
 asked whether there were not other instructions besides those which were given to Sir F. Maitland?Mr. G. Palmer
 said, that having already explained his sentiments on this measure, he should move to negative the report.Mr. Goulburn
 agreed with the hon. Member, who said, that this was a question of feeling and not of argument, and he must confess, that he saw better by the wax lights than by the new light. The hon. Member had spoken of the experiment being made with reference to the future houses of Parliament; but he must protest against being made the corpus vile of such experiments.Mr. Goulburn
 wished to know whether the noble Lord, could communicate to the House anything further upon the subject of compensation for the opium destroyed. No communication was to be found in the papers already produced of a later date than the 13th of June, 1839, from the superintendent at Canton. Were those all the papers that the noble Lord meant to lay before Parliament.Mr. Herries
 wished to ask the noble Lord whether there was any truth in a report very generally believed, that war had been declared against China?Mr. Mackinnon
1161 considered that the experiments which had been made respecting the Bude light afforded a safe guide to the lighting of the future Houses of Parliament which were in the course of construction. At the commencement of the Session, he had been struck with the appearance of the interior of the House, by the introduction of that light; but since the introduction of these domestic lights, the wax candles, with the overhanging opaque bodies, flanked on one side with a petticoat, and on the other with an apron, the whole architectural
1161Sir C. Lemon
ll said, the only object he had in view was, that hon. Members should have that light that was most agreeable to them. He would not say one word in favour or against either mode of lighting, as hon. Members were competent from the experiments that had been made, to form their own opinions. There was one circumstance, however, to which he was anxious to call the attention of the House. It had been stated that an accident had occurred on Monday, in consequence of the weight of the chandeliers. Now in consequence of that, he had taken the trouble to obtain an account of the weight of different chandeliers in public buildings. The lustres in the National Gallery weighed 17 cwt.; those of the Opera House, 14 cwt.; Covent-garden theatre, 18 cwt.; in Drury-lane theatre, 7 cwt.; and in some public show room, 15 cwt. The lustres of the House, with shades and chains, amounted to 6 cwt. only. The shades, too, could be formed of lighter material, so as to render them less cumbrous. With respect to the expense of candles, there was an error in the calculation made by the noble Lord, because the 6llSir F. Trench
 said, be had reason to believe, that the commission which was appointed by the Governor-general of India in Council in 1838, had made a report with respect to the emigration of Hill Coolies. Was the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies cognizant of any such document?Sir. J. Graham
 wished to know from the noble Lord opposite whether, in the absence of such a document, it was intended to reverse the decision prohibiting the emigration of Hill Coolies, or whether it was intended to suspend any further proceedings in reference to the subject until the next Session of Parliament.Sir J. Graham
 said, he very much doubted the expediency and propriety of the Sergeant-at-Arms making any statements concerning this matter at the bar.The Attorney-General
1156 said, supposing that the declaration should prove to be true, and that, in consequence of instructions which had been given to the Governor-general of India, a declaration of war was made, and some document was published containing that declaration, he wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, two questions. First, whether that war, if proclaimed, would be carried on on account of the supreme authority of this country and at the expense of the united empire? And, second, whether
1156Sir R. Peel
 was only supposing it to be the case that war had been proclaimed on account of our present position with regard to China, which was very different from that in which we stood previous to the renewal of the charter of the East India Company. His question was whether, in the event of hostilities being resolved on, any formal message would be sent down to the House?Sir R. Peel
 said, that was the very reason why he had put the question. In the case of an Indian war, he could quite understand why no message should be sent down to Parliament; that course was prescribed by ordinary usage. But in this case the noble Lord had stated that hostilities were to be carried on at the charge of the country and in the name of her Majesty. He presumed, therefore, that some formal communication should be made to Parliament on so important a measure as that of war, if a recourse to it were found necessary.Sir R. Peel
: I used the word "communications" not "hostilities."Viscount Palmerston
1157 said, that undoubtedly, besides the instructions founded on those papers which had been laid on the table of the House, sent to her
1157Viscount Palmerston
 said, that every paper had been laid on the Table of the House which had been moved for, and which it appeared to be expedient to lay before the Home, and necessary to give full information on the subject.Viscount Palmerston
—There were not any other instructions bearing on the subject to which the papers relate.Viscount Palmerston.
 replied, that the communications, whatever they might be, which took place between this country and China would be carried on in the name of the Queen of Great Britain, and not in the name of the Governor-general of India.Viscount Palmerston
 apprehended that any communication which might take place with the government of China would be carried on in the name of the Queen of this country, and that whatever assistance might be afforded by the Governor-general of India to any operations which might be carried on in China would be assistance lent to this country under the responsibility of the Government of this country, and not of the East India Company. With regard to the other question, it was not at present the intention to send down any message of the kind.Viscount Palmerston
 said, the bill was one which did not affect the general trade of the country, as it merely was intended for extending the period of the copyright of designs from three to twelve months.Mr. Williams
11701169post facto thought it would facilitate the passing of the bill through a Committee if he stated at the outset, as briefly as he could, the object of the bill, and the nature of the amendment he meant to propose. After the preamble, section one provided, without asserting the right of the House to interfere against a court of law, that persons civilly or criminally proceeded against for any publication by the authority of that House, were to obtain a certificate from the Speaker of either House, and thereupon, the action was to be put an end to. The second section applied to a totally different matter—namely, the action brought by Mr. Howard against the messengers of that House for an alleged trespass in the execution of the Speaker's warrant. The two sections stood upon totally distinct grounds, and then there was a concluding proviso that nothing contained in the Act should affect the privileges of that House. It had been erroneously supposed out of the House that he (Sir E. Sugden) had objected to the 11701169post factoSir E. Sugden
1171 thought there should be some statement made as to the objects intended to be effected by the bill. He did not object to going into Committee; he was willing, indeed, to sacrifice somewhat of his own opinion to the bringing this matter to a satisfactory conclusion. But he thought the House should know distinctly whom, and what, the bill was meant to protect. It had not been stated that the bill was intended to effect more than a protection to actions brought upon alleged libellous publications by the order of the House. But the language of the bill was such as to exclude any action brought to question any act done by authority of the House. And, as the act now stood, it would appear that it might prevent an action for work and labour in printing the proceedings of the House. He wished to know to whom the protection was to be extended. Was it to be confined to the officers of the House, and were the booksellers and others, who would be induced by the liberal discount allowed by the House for the purchase of its papers, to be left subject to actions for all parties? When it was stated who it was intended to protect, then they would know what to do in Committee, but until that was known it seemed to him impossible for them to determine in Committee whether the clauses were well framed or not. He thought every useful purpose would be answered by extending the pro-
1171Mr. Pemberton
: The object of the bill was stated fully when he moved for leave to bring it in. He did not think that that was the proper stage for them to discuss the wording of the bill: it would be more advantageously done in Committee. He admitted that the intention of the framers of the bill was to confine the protection to persons publishing under authority of the House. On going over the bill since, it appeared to him that there was some doubt whether it might be interpreted to extend further, and to include parties who purchased these papers for the purpose of reselling them. He should be satisfied, however, if it carried the protection as far as he intended. At the same time he thought it a very important subject, but it would be for the Committee to decide whether any alteration should be made in it. It was, he feared, extremely difficult in drawing up a bill like, the present, to introduce words which would not be open to great objection. It would, however, be far better to discuss these points in Committee.Lord J. Russell
1172 admitted the inconvenience of discussing these matters before going into Committee, but he thought his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Ripon was perfectly justified in calling the attention of the House to the matter. He did not think they would be justified in adopting the first clause of the bill unaltered. He agreed that it wag desirable to extend the protecting clause much further than his noble Friend seemed willing to do, and not to do so could only arise from a desire of keeping up the copyright. When the second clause should be brought forward, it would be the best time to enter into the discussion but when he was told
1172Sir R. Inglis
 proposed to add words before those which his hon. Friend proposed to omit. The object of his amendment was, that any defendant or defendants, whether the original publisher or publishers or not, or whether a Member of the House or not, should be able to make the defence given by the act. The right hon. Gentleman then moved that words to that effect be inserted in the clause.Sir Edward Sugden
1173 begged to observe, although it was not his intention to support any part of the bill—that this amendment appeared to go very much beyond the object which the noble Lord stated when he introduced his bill. The bill, as he understood, was framed only to meet a particular evil. That evil was, that persons acting under the authority of the House might have actions brought against them during the recess, and be put to inconvenience and loss before the House could meet. In order to meet that special case the present bill was brought forward, and the machinery of the bill was calculated only to carry that object into effect. In cases of actions brought against the servant of either House, for any publication made by order of the House, the certificate of the Speaker of either House of Parliament, or of the clerk of the House of Commons, that such publication had been made in obedience to the orders of the House, was sufficient to put a stop to such action. In granting these certificates, the officers of the House were exercising little more than merely ministerial functions; but if they went in any respect beyond that, they would be called upon to
1173The Solicitor General
 said, he was aware that if his amendment were agreed to, the bill would require other machinery; but under the circumstances he would not press it; though to assert the principle, he would submit it to the House from the chair, and allow it to pass in the negative.Sir E. Sugden
 asked, why this bill should be objected to for being; retrospective, when the Horse-racing Bill, which was also retrospective, was allowed to proceed unopposed?Mr. Hume
 divided on the question that the words to be left out, stand part of the clause:—Ayes 9; Noes 179: Majorty 170.The Committee
 could not assent to such an amendment. There could be no reason for depriving the other House of the protection afforded by the bill, since both the Houses stood exactly in the same position. It was true the House of Lords had passed no resolution for the sale of its proceedings, but it had been laid down in the Court of Queen's Bench that the fact of sale was immaterial. The provisions of the bill were even more necessary in the case of the House of Lords than in that of the House of Commons, for the latter had in its favour the argument that communications between its Members and their constituents were privileged.Sir R. Peel
 thought it doubtful whether the bill, as at present framed, would protect the communications of hon. Members with their constituents. He should, therefore, be glad to see words introduced for the purpose of giving efficient protection to such communications.Mr. V. Harcourt
 believed, it would nowhere be found in the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench that the communications of Members with their constituents were not privileged.Mr. Darby
 was not so sure that even that privilege had not been questioned. The opinion of Mr. Justice Littledale was, that a Member whose conduct was blamed by his constituents, desiring to vindicate his conduct, might send what Parliamentary papers he pleased, provided only they did not contain matter criminatory of individuals. He could not be justified in publishing any defamatory matter in order to vindicate his own conduct. He was nevertheless clearly of opinion that such a publication was privileged, but still he should be extremely sorry to admit any words to protect Members in individual cases beyond the present necessity, lest they should imply a doubt upon this subject.Sir R. Peel
 could not approve of the form in which it was proposed to stay these proceedings. There would be considerable difficulty in point of practice in the mode prescribed by the noble Lord. The usual course would be for the defendant to make an affidavit, stating, that the publication had been made by order of the House, and apply to a judge of the court to stay proceedings. On the production of the Speaker's certificate, it should be made imperative on the judge to stay the proceedings. The plaintiff in that case would have a notice to attend before the judge, and on the affidavit of the defendant, and the production of the Speaker's certificate, the proceedings would be stayed. Suppose Mr. Hansard who published the proceedings of Parliament, published also the debates of both Houses. If he published defamatory matter, not only by order of the House, but also in a shape unauthorized by Parliament, who was to inquire, should an action be brought, in respect of which publication proceedings had been commenced? Not the Speaker, surely; for he had no authority to summon witnesses, or take examinations. It would be better to adopt the ordinary course, the defendant applying on affidavit, when, if any judicial inquiry were necessary as to the character of the publication, it might regularly be made, but rendering it imperative on the judge, on the production of the Speaker's certificate, to stay the proceedings.Sir W. Follett
1177 said, that any application to the court had been omitted in this Act upon deliberate consideration. There were numerous Acts of Parliament which required proceedings to be stayed without the intervention of the court; and this, of all others, was a case in which the court should not be called upon to interfere. If they made any application to the court necessary in this particular case, it might give rise to numerous questions leading to a conflict between this House and the Court of Queen's Bench. It was intended that the Speaker's certificate should be conclusive evidence that the publication was authorized by the House.
1177The Solicitor-General
1178l rose to move the omission of this clause. He had been in hopes that the noble Lord opposite would have been induced to withdraw this part of the measure, which did not form any portion of the original bill. He could not consent to the clause, because neither he nor the House knew anything of the merits of the actions which had been brought. He had agreed to put an end to the actions brought by Stockdale, because he believed them to rest on frivolous and vexatious grounds, but he could not go so far as to assent to the enactment now proposed. There was no quetion that warrants issued by the Speaker were valid warrants, and maintainable in courts of law. Nevertheless, legal warrants might be illegally executed. He repeated, that the House was not cognizant of the merits of the actions; it did not know whether or not its servants had misconducted themselves, and therefore it ought not to determine that those actions should not be prosecuted. In the case of "Jay and Top-ham," the Sergeant-at-arms had improperly exacted 301178lSir E. Sugden
 said, that if the House did not put a slop to these actions, which were all connected with the case of privilege, they would be perpetually renewing, and involving the House in difficulties by opening each time the whole question of privilege. As a matter of expediency, therefore, they ought to put an end to these actions, or every sort of frivolous action would be raised against their officers. The fact, he believed, was, that with respect to Howard and these persons, no injury whatever had been done—the whole was a scheme to get money and to get notoriety.Lord J. Russell
1179 wished to present to the House the conflicting considerations which arose in his mind, and caused him considerable doubts whether the clause ought to be retained or expunged, and he should be very much guided in his vote by the opinions which should appear to be entertained by the House, on the points which had caused his embarrassment. He thought that it would be a very proper course to put an end to all these actions. He did not think that there was anything unjust as to the particular case of Howard in putting a stop to the action. He did not believe that any real injury had been done. His doubts were not on these points, but he feared lest they should be prejudicing their privileges by this clause. The protection given by it to the Sergeant-at-Arms executing the Speaker's warrant was not general, but special, being limited to extend only to the present Session. If, then, they avowed that they could not trust to their privileges for the protection of their officers during this Session, did they not so far weaken their claim to those privileges in other Sessions? The question might arise in case of a refractory
1179Sir R. Peel
 said it was competent for Mr. Howard to show if their officers had exceeded their commissions. He argued that the House of Commons were acting in precisely the same manner that the other Courts did. They all insisted on the conduct of their executive officers being (where wrong) complained of only to themselves. The Courts of Chancery, of Common Pleas, all acted in this way, and it was not unusual for the House of Commons to stop actions against their officers, leaving those who claimed the right of action for injury to appeal to itself. He instanced the cases of Hesse and of Hyde (justices of the peace), and would be prepared to quote several others. He knew that Mr. Howard himself did not expect they would plead in this case. He felt that the present action was brought to entrap them by appealing to their feelings. Mr. Howard and his coadjutors virtually said to them, "You shall either submit your privileges to the opinions of the courts of justice, backed by those of the House of Lords, to whom they may be referred by appeal (if yon plead), or you must show a determination to protect yourselves by imprisoning us for such a length of time as will effectually deter us from opposing you." They must put a stop to alt these actions by this clause, otherwise their legislation would be idle.The Solicitor-General
 thought it would be necessary to make every just allowance for any just cause of complaint which Mr. Howard might have, otherwise the House of Lords, to whom the Bill would shortly go might be induced to listen to his complaints.Sir E. Sugden
1180 felt that it was imperative to check completely all the vexatious proceedings connected with this question by a comprehensive clause. He begged to suggest to the Noble Lord whether it would not be better to say at once that, when any of their officers were sued for acting under the warrant of the Speaker, they should be enabled, for their own protection, to file a certificate and an affidavit, if it were thought necessary, that the alleged transgressions had only been committed in execution of that warrant. Then be certainly agreed that any alleged ex-
1180Sir Charles Grey
 wished to remove any impression which the Solicitor-general might have made by the parallel which he had attempted to draw between the proceedings of the Court of Chancery and of that House. It was very true that the Court of Chancery did not permit persons to bring actions against its officers for anything which they might do in executing the orders of the Court, but it was equally true that if the officers misconducted themselves the Court interfered and referred it to the Master to grant compensation for any injury which the party should appear to him to have sustained. This House, however, never had any such jurisdiction, and he hoped he should never live to see the hour when that House would take upon itself to assess damages on claims for compensation of that nature. The House had no money properly applicable to such a purpose. It possessed no officers, no tribunal fit to discharge that duty. Then, again, if the principle upon which they were going was right, they were bound to make it perpetual. These difficulties would not end with the session; but it seemed only to be desired, on the part of the advisers of the Crown, to have some indemnity for the present, in order to avoid the necessity of pleading in a Cowl of Law. In these questions of compensation it was impossible for the House to ascertain whether any and what damages any individual had sustained. What was the use of asking a man whom they had already committed to Newgate to come forward and tell them what his complaint against them was? It was desirable that, as far as was possible, their privileges should be considered as a part of the law of the land, and, without printing those privileges at all, any question as to the excess of authority on the part of their officers might be settled by a Court of Law. He was willing, however, to allow the consideration of this clause to be deferred till a future stage.Sir E. Sugden
1181 said—I am glad that the right hon. Gentleman has consented to postpone the omission of this clause and to reserve its consideration; and it is, therefore, sufficient for me to say that I
1181Lord John Russell
1182 rose to propose a clause which he hoped would be favourably received by the House. He thought it extremely necessary that the power which they now proposed to take should be accompanied with some guards and limitations; because they must be aware that, by this bill, the House would have a power which no other House of Commons had ever possessed. Whatever might have been the extent of their privileges, this bill conferred upon them one entirely new, when it enabled them by the certificate of the Speaker to stop at once any action brought against the parties concerned in the publication of the papers of that House. That was a very great power, and it rendered it highly necessary to guard against any careless introduction into reports of matters calculated to be injurious to individuals. Now it appeared to him also that they ought to guard that power by the introduction of a clause which should prevent them from having in custody at once the person who brought the action, and at the same time to exercise the power of putting an end to the action, because he apprehended the only use of committing persons was to get rid of the action. If they thought it desirable to keep the prison cells of that House full, that was one thing; but if they thought it desirable not to raise the public mind, as it had been raised by the recent committals, the introduction of this clause was calculated to advance that object. The hon. Gentleman then moved a clause to the effect that when any civil or criminal proceeding against the officers of the House had been finally put an end to, any person committed by either House for having taken part in these proceedings should be forthwith discharged out of custody by the House which committed him; and to that he proposed to add a proviso that nothing contained in the above clause
1182Sir E. Sugden
 said—I object to the bringing up of that clause. I believe when there is any objection to the principle of a clause as being totally irreconcilable with the principle of the bill, the proper course is to object to its being brought up. This clause seems to me to be a direct limitation of the privileges of this House; and, besides that, it is an interference with particular acts of the House upon questions of privilege. I think, therefore, that neither this or the other House of Parliament could properly entertain this clause. The House has already agreed to the proposition that the privileges of this House are not affected by the bill; but the hon. Gentleman now proposes to bring up a clause which directly affects their privileges.Lord John Russell
 thought it scarcely courteous in the noble Lord to make a formal objection to the clause being brought up. If he would allow it to be brought up, and then put and negatived, he should be satisfied; but if the noble Lord would not consent to that, then he should take another opportunity of moving for leave to bring up the clause and dividing the House upon it.Sir E. Sugden
: I object to the clause being brought up, and I leave it to the hon. Gentleman to pursue what course he may think fit.Lord John Russell
1183 had a clause to propose. This House, it was to be remembered, had no power of taking evidence upon oath. It was all mere assertion; and in consequence of that the same person had been known to give very different testimony before that House from what he had given before the House of Lords: and when called upon to explain the variance, had said that it was because he was on his oath in one place, and not in the other. There were cases, too, in which Members of that House were called upon to give evidence at great length. That evidence was not unfrequently given back to them to supervise; and it was always returned in a very different state from that in which it appeared before. The object of his clause was to render false evidence given before that House liable to
1183Mr. J. Jones
 thought that that clause did not come within the scope of the title of the bill, which was for the summary protection of persons employed in printing papers authorised by the House.The Chairman
, with great submission, differed from the hon. Chairman. He thought any clause admissible which gave to those publications a more serious character.Mr. Jones
 said if that were the general feeling of the Committee he would not oppose it; but it did not concur with his own impression.Mr. Bernal
 spoke with great diffidence on the subject, because hon. Members might, perhaps, have some other remedy for the evil; but, in his opinion, some provision of the sort ought to be made. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had stated that those who opposed the privileges of the House were either Chartists or Ultra-Tories. Now he was not an Ultra-Tory—neither was he a Chartist, certainly. It would not be difficult to impute motives to hon. Gentlemen opposite, but that course had not been pursued, and the hon. and learned Member ought at least to give those who were opposed to him on this question credit for the honesty of their views. The hon. Member concluded by proposing his clause. "That persons giving false evidence before committees be liable to the penalties of perjury."Mr. Jones
1184 hoped that this clause would be met upon its merits rather than upon any mere form or technicality. His conviction was, that the whole of these coercive measures which had been adopted by the House were calculated ultimately to restrain and confine the publication of useful information. The libel in this case came out upon an examination before the House of Lords; but he was sure that the House of Lords would not have permitted that examination to have been carried on with that licence and latitude which frequently prevailed if they had intended it to be published. Yet that House was now going to give to any committee of some six Members the power of publishing whatever might seem to them to be necessary and useful. It had been established in debate that in one case three-fourths of the evidence as published by Hansard consisted of matter not one word of which had been uttered before the
1184Mr. M. Attwood
11861185 was opposed to the bringing up of the clause—first, because he thought it inadmissible within the terms of the preamble of the bill; and secondly, because it was objectionable in itself. Had the hon. Gentleman fully considered what might be the effect of his own clause? He thought it would have a much more extensive effect than it might at first sight appear. Persons very seldom attended committees to give evidence voluntarily. Their attendance was generally compulsory. And what was the nature of the evidence they were often called upon to give? Not such as was given on a legal trial, before a jury, where the witnesses were only required to speak upon some definite point in issue; but before a committee they were called upon to give information upon subjects very much at large, and were often very little apprised when they came before the committee what were the questions that were about to be put to them. Again, they were examined by Gentlemen who knew nothing of the rules of evidence; nor were the questions confined to the personal and legal knowledge of the parties examined, but were frequently extended to mere matters of hearsay and conjecture. If the witnesses had an option of declining to answer the questions put to them, then some ground might be shown why they should be made responsible for the
11861185The Solicitor General
 did not think the objection raised by the chairman, on the ground of informality, had been sustained by the hon. and learned Solicitor-general. The objection was, that the clause did not come within the title of the bill. The title of the bill was this:—"A Bill to give summary protection to persons employed in the publication of Parliamentary papers." Now, what was it that the second clause of the bill provided for? It was to stop all actions that might have been brought against the subordinate officers of the House, for carrying the Speaker's warrant into effect. What, he should like to know, had such a clause to do with the publication of papers?Mr. Jones
 supported the clause. Was private character to be at the mercy of the House, by publishing the particulars of every investigation? In his opinion they ought to take steps to prevent mischievous statements, given at random, from being published.Mr. Halford
 said, that there was some plausibility in the resolution when it passed last time, but there was none now; for they had just been considering a bill, declaring that the bringing of these actions was not unwarranted; and when they talked of the officers, who were they? The Serjeant-at-arms; he was appointed by the Crown. The chief clerk at the table was appointed by the Crown; and even for the choice of a Speaker they required the sanction of the Crown. Having, then, no officer, they could not justify any person acting as such; and, besides, they ought only to protect a man who printed a paper specially ordered to be printed by the House. After the preamble of the bill, however, it was a waste of time to pass this resolution, and he would certainly divide against it.Sir R. Inglis
1189 said, that this was the fifth action brought against Messrs. Hansard for publishing the report of the inspector of prisons, and he did not see why they should now alter the course they took upon the former occasions, and for which the majority of the House thought that they had power. It was an extraordinary assumption of the hon. Gentleman that they were altering or abandoning any privilege by the bill they were now passing.
1189Lord John Russell
 would vote against the resolution, if it should be pressed, for he thought that the House had neither gained honour nor credit in the course they had already pursued. He would not concur in the committal of any other sheriff, plaintiff, or attorney; and he, therefore, thought, that it was useless to pass another resolution.Mr. Law
1192 said, the question was not whether this bill affected the revenue, but whether it came within the standing order, that bills relating to trade should commence in a committee of the whole House. Since the question had been raised upon the bill, he (the Speaker) had given a good deal of attention to the subject. The original standing order was made in 1703, when a committee of the whole House
1192The Speaker
1168 said, he thought it inexpedient to depart from the ordinary
1168Mr. Labouchere
 said, if any such order had been given, he thought there would be no objection to lay it before the House.Mr. Labouchere
 begged to call the attention of the House to a doubt which existed, as to whether his bill, which was for the extension of the time of the copyright in designs, was one that came within the standing orders for the regulation of bills affecting trade, and required to be laid before a committee of the whole House. The bill did not interfere with any duties, or touch any question of finance; but he would wish to have the Speaker's opinion as to whether it came within the meaning of the standing orders.Mr. E. Tennent
 would withdraw the bill for the present, and after the commitmittee which had been appointed on the subject, had made their report, he would move for a committee of the whole House to take it into consideration.Mr. E. Tennent
 did not ask for any confidential communications, but for an order which he understood had been made to admit tea brought to this country in British bottoms after being transferred from American ships. That could not be considered a confidential communication. But it was an order which everybody should be acquainted with, and certainly it ought not to be refused to the House of Commons.Mr. Herries
TEA—AMERICAN SHIPS.]  wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade whether there was any objection to lay before the House a copy of any communication made to the Custom-house respecting the admission of tea, water borne from Canton in American craft, and afterwards shipped by British vessels. He believed that such an order had been made; and the reason why he asked whether there were any objection to lay that paper before the House was, that it appeared from one of the despatches of Captain Elliot that he insisted that such tea should not be admitted.Mr. Herries
 complained of the great expense at which this portion of the military establishment was sustained, and that the patronage of the army was applied for purposes opposed to the liberal Government of the day. He found, among other charges, one for sis aide-de-camps to the Queen. Her Majesty might just as well have six lady's-maids voted to her. He only mentioned this charge by way of illustrating the argument which he meant to urge to the right hon. Secretary at War. He begged to ask a question with respect to the appointment of the lieutenant of the Tower. The late lieutenant was recently dead, and he desired to know whether the office which he held was still to be continued as a sinecure. In the year 1834 it had not been disturbed, out of deference to the Duke of Wellington; but he desired to know whether the successor of the person who held the office was to hold it upon the same terms?Mr. Hume
1191 said, that the situation referred to was not lieutenant of the Tower but deputy lieutenant only. Upon the death of the gentleman who had last
1191Mr. Macaulay
 said, that no doubt the Commander-in-.Chief should mix himself up as little as possible with politics, and he could express his firm opinion that Lord Hill was not influenced by political bias in the appointments he made.Sir A. Dalrymple
 expressed a hope that the Speaker would give his opinion, and thus remove all doubt.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 brought up the report on the Printed Papers Bill.Mr. Stuart
 opposed the clause. It would directly interfere with the privileges of the House, by putting a stop in certain cases to their power of commitment.Lord J. Russell
1204"That your petitioners are apprehensive, if legislative protection against such prosecutions or actions at law, be given exclusively to the original printers and publishers of Par-"That your petitioners are liable to prosecution by indictment or information, as well as to actions at law for the recovery of damages, so often as anything contained in the reports or other documents first printed and published by order of your hon. House, and subsequently reprinted and republished by them may be deemed, by any individual what-ever, to reflect in any manner upon his character, or to be in any degree injurious to his private interests,"That the utility of such reports and documents depends In a great degree on their receiving publication through the medium of the public press.occasions of frequent recurrence, that your petitioners should reprint and republish in their respective newspapers the whole or selected portions of reports and other documents previously printed and published by order of your. hon. House.bonâ fideverbatim.1203"That, to the conducting in an adequate and efficient manner the business in which your petitioners are engaged, and which consists in diffusing as widely as possible throughout the United Kingdom and its dependencies the fullest and most accurate information they can procure in relation to all affairs of public interest, it is indispensably necessary, uponMorning Post,The Times"That your petitioners are printers and publishers of certain newspapers published daily in London, and severally entitled Morning Post,The Times"The humble petition of John Joseph Law-son, of No. 26, Newington-crescent, in the parish of St. Mary, Newington, in the county of Surrey, printer, and Thomas Payne, of No. 23, Pembroke-square, Kensington, in the county of Middlesex, printer, showeth—"TO THE HON. THE COMMONS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GEEAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND, IN PARLIAMENT ASSEMBLED.***MorningThe Times supported the clause. He regretted that the noble Lord had taken his present course before time had been allowed for the consideration of the petition, which he had presented that evening from the printers of 1204"That your petitioners are apprehensive, if legislative protection against such prosecutions or actions at law, be given exclusively to the original printers and publishers of Par-"That your petitioners are liable to prosecution by indictment or information, as well as to actions at law for the recovery of damages, so often as anything contained in the reports or other documents first printed and published by order of your hon. House, and subsequently reprinted and republished by them may be deemed, by any individual what-ever, to reflect in any manner upon his character, or to be in any degree injurious to his private interests,"That the utility of such reports and documents depends In a great degree on their receiving publication through the medium of the public press.occasions of frequent recurrence, that your petitioners should reprint and republish in their respective newspapers the whole or selected portions of reports and other documents previously printed and published by order of your. hon. House.bonâ fideverbatim.1203"That, to the conducting in an adequate and efficient manner the business in which your petitioners are engaged, and which consists in diffusing as widely as possible throughout the United Kingdom and its dependencies the fullest and most accurate information they can procure in relation to all affairs of public interest, it is indispensably necessary, uponMorning Post,The Times"That your petitioners are printers and publishers of certain newspapers published daily in London, and severally entitled Morning Post,The Times"The humble petition of John Joseph Law-son, of No. 26, Newington-crescent, in the parish of St. Mary, Newington, in the county of Surrey, printer, and Thomas Payne, of No. 23, Pembroke-square, Kensington, in the county of Middlesex, printer, showeth—"TO THE HON. THE COMMONS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GEEAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND, IN PARLIAMENT ASSEMBLED.***MorningThe TimesSir R. Inglis
 could not understand what the House of Commons had to do with the proceedings of the young gentlemen who had formed themselves into the association alluded to by the hon. Member. These gentlemen had to choose a lord rector by popular election, and probably met to make arrangements for that purpose. Yet the hon. Member for Greenock, who professed to be the advocate of popular rights, wished to put down their meetings as soon as they appeared to be favourable to Conservative principles. The hon. Member said, that if he had known of political meetings held at universities elsewhere, he should be willing to adopt the same course with respect to them. Now, he (Mr. Colquhoun) looked around him and saw many hon. Members, both on his own and on the opposite side of the House, whom he recollected to have met when an under-graduate at Oxford at a society which met for the express purpose of discussing political questions, and he could only say, that those hon. Members, as well as himself, at that period, would have felt much obliged to the hon. Member for Greenock, if he had done them the honour of moving in the House of Commons for a return of the members of the society, and a copy of its rules. He would suggest an addition to the motion of the hon. Member, and would recommend him to move also for a return of the toasts which had been proposed at this club, in order to bring the whole matter fully before the House. With respect to the students meeting in the Greek classroom, he presumed that the students merely assembled there previously to the meetings of the class, in order to prepare for an approaching election of a lord rector. If this motion were agreed to, there was no reason why similar returns should not be moved for with respect to the Union at Cambridge, or the Debating Society at Oxford.Mr. Colquhoun
 should certainly oppose the motion. If any inquiry at all was necessary it ought to be general, and not confined to a particular county. He knew not what was the direct complaint against the magistrates of Middlesex; they had only acted in accordance with the strict letter of the Act, and he objected to the hon. Member availing himself of his seat in that House to institute an inquiry into the conduct of magistrates, upon whom that House had imposed the duty of correcting his accounts.Colonel Wood
Wakley, said, he had been prepared to object to the motion as it originally stood, on the ground that no sufficient cause for it had been shown; but when they proposed an inquiry to extend all over the country, his objection was infinitely strengthened, because not one word had been said of abuse or dissatisfaction in any other county but Middlesex; and even limiting the motion to that county, he thought no sufficient ground for it had been stated. The constable and beadles, it was said, were dissatisfied; but they had had no petitions from them; nothing had been heard of it. There was some question as to the accounts of the coroner of Middlesex; and if that were the true ground of the motion, it ought to be so stated to the House. It had been said, too, that the magistrates had exceeded their power, but the Act clearly gave them the power to alter and vary the schedule—[Mr. Wakley,Sir T. Freemantle
 begged the noble Lord's pardon; he had never said, that he should support the motion in any form.Colonel Wood
1215 was sure that his hon. Friend the Member for Greenock would bear him witness that since he had seen the notice of this motion on the paper he had endeavoured to persuade him not to bring it forward, deeming it a matter highly inconvenient to be a subject of inquiry by that House. He deprecated an inquiry of this kind as inconsistent with the duties of the House of Commons. At the same time hon. Gentlemen must bear in mind, that after all, the University of Glasgow was little removed from an ordinary seminary in England. Individually he objected to the public election of the Lord Rector by the youth of the University. He might be wrong in his opinion, but he felt confirmed in it, He wished he could say of the Peel club that it had been established solely to commemorate the advent of the right hon. Baronet; for he could never look back to the period of the right hon. Baronet's visit without a feeling of great pride in his native country. He wished that the club had been formed for that purpose alone, and that the pro-
1215Mr. Fox Maule
1202 said, that the Chief Justice of Upper Canada had received leave of absence in the usual way; that that leave had been renewed from time to time, first by Lord Glenelg, and subsequently by Lord Normanby; that the leave had recently expired; that he (Lord J. Russell) had intimated to the Chief Justice of Upper Canada, his opinion that the time had arrived at which it was desirable that he should return to that colony, and the Chief Justice intended early in the ensuing month to proceed to Canada accordingly, As to the inquiry
1202Lord J. Russell
 thought, that the terms of this motion were very unusual. It was a very extraordinary thing for that House to institute an inquiry into the manner in which certain justices had carried into effect an Act of Parliament.Mr. Kemble
 said, the question was put to Principal Macfarlane as to the age of the students, to which the reply was, that in the Latin and Greek classes the average was fourteen years. Being asked how many entered younger than fourteen, he said, "Many entered at eleven or twelve. I have known some students enter at ten. Of course the youngest student had the same voice in the election of Lord-rector as the most eminent member of the University." Professor Macgill said, "The mode of election, in my opinion, is productive of very bad effects upon the students of the Universty. I think it destroys their habits as students. I think it of great importance that the mode of election should be altered;" and he went on to say, on being asked whether the elections led to idleness and insubordination for some time subsequent, that the effects were different at different times, and that they were chiefly manifest in cases of persons of more advanced years, who repaired to the University from England, and who were for the most part Dissenters. He further declared that there could be no doubt that political divisions arose among the students, when two gentlemen of opposite politics appeared as candidates for the Lord-rectorship. He also said, that for some time politics had been the ruling principle among the students. He could go through the evidence, and show that all the professors, with one exception, declared, that the political excitement which existed was unfavourable to the instruction of youth. "Do, then," said the hon. Member, "do let us act fairly and honestly, and put a stop to a custom which is more honoured in the breach than the observance."Mr. Warburton
1210 should not have troubled the House were it not for the assertion of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down—that the city which he had the honour to represent, was about to change its representative. That right hon. Gentleman ought to have been the last person to have made such a statement; although, no doubt, he spoke feelingly on the subject; for, if he remembered rightly, the right hon. Gentleman himself represented a great northern county, which changed its opinion of him. By the same majority in point of number by which the present Member for Perthshire was returned, the right hon. Baronet was turned out of the great northern county which he once represented. Hon. Gentlemen opposite had stated, that it was wrong to take up the time of the public with such a motion. For himself he must say, that during the last week he had attended three days in that House, at four o'clock, and on no one of these three days had he seen either the right lion. Baronet, or the hon. Member for Kilmarnock present to make up a House. They might make the most of his assertion, but when they complained of the public time being taken up, why did they not attend to their duty and make a House? He must protest against the doctrine laid down, that it was right that the youth of the University should be instructed in political partisanship. There was a greater number of students from fourteen to eighteen years of age than from eighteen
1210Mr. Dennistoun
 rose for the purpose of inquiring from the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, by whose permission and under what authority the Chief Justice of Canada had remained for a year and a half in England. He wished also to know who performed the duties of Chief Justice in that colony, who received the salary, for what purpose did that learned person reside in England, and was it intended, and when, that he should resume his duties?Mr. Leader
1207 said, the ground on which he supported the motion was, that the Glasgow University was supported by the public money, and he thought the encouragement given to the establishment of political clubs within its walls tended to pro-
1207Mr. Hume
 thought, the argument of the hon. Gentleman had great force. He did not see why the inquiry should be confined to Middlesex.Mr. Hume
 in reply, observed that two of the Lord Rectors of the University had that evening expressed an opinion decidedly in favour of the encouragement of political discussions in the university, and neither of them had denied that the University itself had been made the arena in which some of these discussions took place. If any grant for the rise or support of the University of Glasgow should this year be proposed in the estimates, he (Mr. Wallace) should then most decidedly take the opportunity of moving certain resolutions, upon which he would positively take the sense of the House, unless, in the meantime, the professors publicly declared that they would withdraw from their political association with the students. After what had been stated by his hon. Friend (Mr. F. Maule), he should not press the present motion to a division.Mr. Wallace,
1206ad libitum.1205Morning Post,(Printer and publisher of the Morning Post,"THOMAS PAYNEThe Times(Printer and publisher of The Times"JOHN JOSEPH LAWSON"And your petitioners will ever pray, &c."Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray your hon. House that you will not pass any act having for its object or effect to prevent prosecutions or actions at law, against the original printers or publishers of Parliamentary reports or other documents, unless such act shall contain a clause or clauses to prevent in like manner prosecutions or actions against your petitioners, and the registered proprietors of the said newspapers, for reprinting and republishing the same in whole or in part.liamentary reports, or other documents connected with Parliamentary proceedings, that prosecutions or actions at law against your petitioners, who are often compelled, in the regular and ordinary course of their business, to reprint and republish the same, may thereby be rendered more frequent, vexatious, and oppressive."Return, showing in columns, the names and status of the office-bearers and professors in the university of Glasgow, who have been enrolled, or are now members of the political club called the University Peel Club; together with the names of those of the above who have held or now hold honorary offices therein, or who attend the convivial or other meetings thereof with the name of the offices held by each; together with the whole number of students, and that of those from each class of the university in the said club, and the probable age of the youngest students belonging to the logic, Greek, and Latin classes: also the date of the origin of the club, the place or places of the meetings of the aforesaid club, and whether these are held within or without the parish walls: and also for a similar return as respects the Glasgow University Liberal Association." rose for the purpose of moving, in pursuance of the notice which he had given, for a
1206ad libitum.1205Morning Post,(Printer and publisher of the Morning Post,"THOMAS PAYNEThe Times(Printer and publisher of The Times"JOHN JOSEPH LAWSON"And your petitioners will ever pray, &c."Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray your hon. House that you will not pass any act having for its object or effect to prevent prosecutions or actions at law, against the original printers or publishers of Parliamentary reports or other documents, unless such act shall contain a clause or clauses to prevent in like manner prosecutions or actions against your petitioners, and the registered proprietors of the said newspapers, for reprinting and republishing the same in whole or in part.liamentary reports, or other documents connected with Parliamentary proceedings, that prosecutions or actions at law against your petitioners, who are often compelled, in the regular and ordinary course of their business, to reprint and republish the same, may thereby be rendered more frequent, vexatious, and oppressive."Return, showing in columns, the names and status of the office-bearers and professors in the university of Glasgow, who have been enrolled, or are now members of the political club called the University Peel Club; together with the names of those of the above who have held or now hold honorary offices therein, or who attend the convivial or other meetings thereof with the name of the offices held by each; together with the whole number of students, and that of those from each class of the university in the said club, and the probable age of the youngest students belonging to the logic, Greek, and Latin classes: also the date of the origin of the club, the place or places of the meetings of the aforesaid club, and whether these are held within or without the parish walls: and also for a similar return as respects the Glasgow University Liberal Association."Mr. Wallace
1217 said, he was the last man who would object to extend the inquiry into the office of coroner generally throughout the country. He begged leave therefore to alter his motion to that ex-
1217Mr. Wakley
1218 begged to know whether
1218Mr. Wakley
 said, that until the introduction of an Act in 1837, the expenses of coroners' inquests had been paid by parishes out of the poor rates; but that Act, besides enabling the magistrates to frame a schedule to meet these expenses, had empowered them from time to time to alter and vary that schedule. It gave them no power to rescind former schedules, but the Middlesex magistrates had thought themselves justified in rescinding as well as varying and altering the schedules; and with regard to the recent orders made by the justices, the constables and beadles complained that they had been unjustly deprived of fees to which they were entitled. The consequence was, that the greatest confusion prevailed in the office. Legislation on the subject would certainly be necessary, and as a preliminary to that it was advisable that a Committee of Inquiry should be appointed. He, therefore, moved for a Select Committee to inquire into any measures which have been adopted for carrying into effect, in the county of Middlesex, the provisions of the Act 1 Vic, c. 68; and also into any proceedings of the justices of the peace in relation to the office of coroner in the said county, with power to send for persons, papers, and records, and to report thereon to the House.Mr. Wakley
1216 in explanation begged to state that never, within the precincts of the college, had any permission been given for any political
1216Sir James Graham
1209quœ perpetue sunl agitata,' manent.1208 doubted whether it would have been necessary for him to address the House at all on the present motion, for he agreed with the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, that the British public would conclude that that House did not duly appreciate the vast national interests to which it ought to attend, if it wasted any time in such a discussion. But, considering his connexion with the Glasgow University, he felt bound to say a few words, in order to set right one or two misrepresentations of fact which had been made by the hon. Gentleman opposite. It had been imagined by the hon. Member for Greenock, that the institution of which he complained pretended to be a literary institution. He disclaimed any such pretence on the part of the Peel Club. It was frankly avowed to be a political institution. Owing to the peculiar functions which the Glasgow University had to perform in choosing a lord rector every year, the Peel Club was formed for the purpose of forwarding the election of a lord rector whose opinions were similar to those of the right hon. Baronet, whose name it bore, and also for the purpose of supporting those political opinions. The hon. Gentleman said, that the Peel Club was the first example of such a political institution within the walls of the Glasgow University. There never was a grosser error. The person elected as lord rector for one year held by courtesy the office for two years. In 1822 Sir J. Mackintosh was elected, in opposition to Sir W. Scott, by the casting vote of the preceding lord rector, and held the office until 1824. In that year, a violent contest also took place, and Lord Brougham was chosen by the casting vote of Sir J. Mackintosh. In 1826 Mr. Campbell, the distinguished poet, was
1209quœ perpetue sunl agitata,' manent.1208Sir J. Graham
1214121312121211 said, that as the subject was under consideration, he said too, "Do let us act fairly and honestly." The hon. Member had read a portion of evidence which had been in his possession these eight or nine years; how happened he never to have referred to it before? After
1214121312121211Sir R. Peel
 thought the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wakley) had been hardly used, for, after having adopted the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman opposite, whose only objection was, that the inquiry was too limited, up got the hon. Baronet opposite and objected to the extent of the inquiry. If it should appear that there was nothing to inquire into, the committee would have short work, and, by extending it throughout the kingdom, all that seemed invidious in the inquiry was removed. He hoped that they should, at all events, have the support of the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex.Viscount Palmerston
 objected, not to the bill passing through this stage, but to the principle upon which it was founded, which was without precedent in the law of Real Property in this country. He must object to vesting the tenants for life of estates with a power to charge such estates with the expenses of drainage, making it a charge upon the land after the manner of a mortgage. He knew the hon. and learned Member for Galway was in favour of conferring such a power upon the tenant for life, under particular circumstances; but he would assure him that, whatever might be the necessity for such a provision in respect to the drainage of life estates in Scotland or in Ireland, there was no pretext for such an enactment in respect to life estates in this country. If the hon. Member would content himself with referring the bill to a select committee, to examine it thoroughly, he should not, as he said before, object now to the second reading of the bill.Sir E. Sugden
1220 had, on a former occasion, when a similar measure had been discussed
1220Mr. Lynch
 opposed the bill, and thought it was most improper to permit such an interference with vested rights as this bill would effect. If this were permitted, the next step would be to allow the tenant in possession to mortgage the property, for the purpose of building. He thought the ground on which the bill was supported, was the most flimsy he had ever heard.Sir G. Strickland
 considered it would be most improper to give to the tenant in possession power to encumber the estate with a mortgage for any purpose. He should certainly oppose the bill.Mr. Goulburn
 thought, the principle of the bill was good. The only difficulty that presented itself to his mind was, the manner in which the expense that might be incurred under the bill in improving the estate should be apportioned. As the tenant in possession would receive an immediate benefit from the improvement of the land, he ought to bear some share of the expense. He should support the second reading of the bill, and hoped it would pass into a law.Mr. Freshfield
1238"That it is the opinion of this House that the tolls now levied upon British ships and cargoes in the river Elbe, by the authority of
1238parens palriœ1237Frederick Trench: "Hear, hear123612351234dsls1233llEventualiter interiml1232Corpus Constitutionum.1231"With regard to the tariff," said the representatives of these states, "we have carefully considered that which was produced at Dresden. It is impossible that we should be satisfied with the pretensions of a state to levy such taxes on no other grounds than its own will and pleasure. A tax, without a fixed scale of amount, would be perfectly monstrous, and nothing less than a revival of the club law of our ancestors in the dark ages. There is no document in which a rule of taxation can be found, except in the tariffs drawn up by
Corpus Constitutionum.123112301229ad valoremresintegra."Without prejudice to the general principles expressed by the Congress act respecting river navigation, it is agreed with respect to the Stade Tax to waive and renounce all further discussion, in consideration that Hanover engages to supply the Commission with the Tax tariff for their information, and further binds itself not to raise or vary the said tariff without the concurrence of the other states interested therein. His Majesty the king of Denmark, and the free city of Hamburg, reserve to themselves their own rights on ground of existing customs and contracts, and therefore, with regard to the said King and Seuate, the question of the Stade Tax remains a resintegra.12281227"A. D. 1740. In this same year his Majesty King George 2nd, of Great Britain, and Sovereign of the town of Staden in the Duchy of Bremen, was graciously pleased to remit to all British and Irish ships the ancient toll payable at Staden by the ships of all nations in sailing up the river Elbe. For which bounty his said Majesty received an humble address of thanks from the British Company of Merchant-adventurers trading to Hamburg."1226l12251224*** said, 1238"That it is the opinion of this House that the tolls now levied upon British ships and cargoes in the river Elbe, by the authority of
1238parens palriœ1237Frederick Trench: "Hear, hear123612351234dsls1233llEventualiter interiml1232Corpus Constitutionum.1231"With regard to the tariff," said the representatives of these states, "we have carefully considered that which was produced at Dresden. It is impossible that we should be satisfied with the pretensions of a state to levy such taxes on no other grounds than its own will and pleasure. A tax, without a fixed scale of amount, would be perfectly monstrous, and nothing less than a revival of the club law of our ancestors in the dark ages. There is no document in which a rule of taxation can be found, except in the tariffs drawn up by
Corpus Constitutionum.123112301229ad valoremresintegra."Without prejudice to the general principles expressed by the Congress act respecting river navigation, it is agreed with respect to the Stade Tax to waive and renounce all further discussion, in consideration that Hanover engages to supply the Commission with the Tax tariff for their information, and further binds itself not to raise or vary the said tariff without the concurrence of the other states interested therein. His Majesty the king of Denmark, and the free city of Hamburg, reserve to themselves their own rights on ground of existing customs and contracts, and therefore, with regard to the said King and Seuate, the question of the Stade Tax remains a resintegra.12281227"A. D. 1740. In this same year his Majesty King George 2nd, of Great Britain, and Sovereign of the town of Staden in the Duchy of Bremen, was graciously pleased to remit to all British and Irish ships the ancient toll payable at Staden by the ships of all nations in sailing up the river Elbe. For which bounty his said Majesty received an humble address of thanks from the British Company of Merchant-adventurers trading to Hamburg."1226l12251224***Mr. Hutt
, in seconding the motion, said, that after the very minute and luminous statement made by his hon. Friend, he should not enter into any further details upon the subject. He thought the enforcement of the decision come to by the congress of Vienna with respect to the navigation of rivers, was an object particularly deserving of the attention of the noble Viscount, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. He did not say the noble Viscount was to blame in this case, but there certainly appeared to have been an unjustifiable obstruction to the navigation of the Elbe by the regulations now under discussion. He thought that the noble Viscount now had both the will and the power to remove the grievances which were complained of, and that nothing was wanted but an expression of the opinion of the House upon the subject. Too little attention had been paid by the House to the state of our foreign trade, although at the present time it was a subject particularly entitled to consideration.Mr. Hawes
124112401239 considered the question brought forward by the hon. Member for Hull to be undoubtedly one of great importance and interest to the commerce of the country, and so far he agreed in the view which the hon. Member took of the subject. He was afraid, however, that the question was not quite so simple in its elements as the hon. Member appeared to think. It was complicated with the arrangements made by old treaties, with the transfer of territories, and with the provisions which had been agreed to at the congress of Vienna, referring to plenipotentiaries from the states through which the rivers of Germany passed the regulation of matters connected with their navigation. The subject had not been allowed to sleep since the discussion that had taken place upon it last year; her Majesty's Government had pressed the government of Hanover to place the Stade tolls on a more rational foundation, and one more consistent with what we were entitled to expect. It was only, however, within the last few weeks that he had received the answer of the Hanoverian government to
124112401239Viscount Palmerston
 supported the motion. He considered the Stade duties both oppressive and odious, no return to our commerce being derived in any shape whatever.Mr. A. Chapman
1242 said, a large sum of money had been paid in the reign of George 1st, with the view of securing a preference of British interests for the town of Stade, but it now turned out that this very town for which so much British money had been paid, had been turned into an instrument of oppression upon British commerce. He did not wish to throw any unnecessary censure on the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston)
1242Sir W. James
 hoped that after the discussion that had occurred, his hon. Friend would not press his motion. He should feel extremely sorry if the House came to any vote on the subject, or should express any opinion as to the right of imposing tolls being well founded or otherwise. He had listened with much attention to what had taken place, and he felt the question was one of great difficulty. The right was so complicated; it rested on so many treaties passed such a long time ago, that it was extremely difficult for Government to come to any decision at present. The states bordering on the Elbe had found the question one of much difficulty; and, putting aside the abstract right, they had endeavoured to come to some practical and satisfactory conclusion without determining the question of right, and to get the King of Hanover to consent to the abolition of those vexatious regulations by which the imposition of tolls were accompanied. It was the determination of Government to put an end to the question; and even the King of Hanover himself admitted that the regulations, as they at present existed, were indefensible. It would be impolitic, in the present situation of matters, to enter into the question. As to the abstract right of the King of Hanover to levy the tolls, that had better not be at present entertained. The wiser course would be to separate the two parts of the subject. To give the House an opportunity of avoiding an expression of opinion on the motion, he should move, by way of amendment, the previous question.Mr. Labouchere
1243 did not see how the noble Lord could consistently oppose a vote of the House, which would strengthen his hands, by showing that the House was unanimous in condemning the conduct of the Hanoverian authorities as oppressive and vexatious. It was said by an hon. Baronet who spoke opposite, that if the Duke of Wellington had been in office, these oppressive proceedings would have been checked long ago. Why, the same oppressive proceedings had gone on while that noble Duke was in office, from 1824 to 1830, and why had he not then interfered? The Foreign Office and the Board of Trade had been memorialized, year after year, by the merchants who were oppressed, and they had only been trifled with. Let the noble
1243Mr. Hume
, though with great unwillingness, consented to the proposed course, and consequently the original motion was not put.Mr. Hull
1246 rose to put a question to
1246Mr. Wodehouse
 said, it certainly was his intention to refer that petition to the consideration of the committee, and it was therefore, unnecessary for him to say more about it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know if in giving that answer, the right hon. Gentleman was aware of the evidence offered in 1826, by Mr. Lloyd, before the House of Lords, showing that nine parts out of ten of the monetary circulation of Manchester consisted of internal bills of exchange.Mr. Wodehouse
: If the House thinks it right that I should submit to a preliminary cross examination, I shall be happy to answer any of the questions the hon. Gentleman may think it fit to put to me, but I feel that I cannot do so without entering into a statement of a more general nature than would, perhaps, be quite convenient at this moment.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1247: Then I throw myself on the mercy of the Speaker. I repeat, that it is on record from the evidence given before this House, as well as the House of Lords, that at Manchester the greater part
1247Mr. Wodehouse
1244 said, that the situation in which this gentleman was placed was not attributable to the present Treasury Board, but was the effect of an old established rule. The Old Superannuation Act laid down a general rule that a certain deduction should be made from the salaries of certain officers therein specified, who, when they retired, should be in consequence of such deductions entitled to a proportional amount of retiring allowance. Since the passing of that statute, every case similarly circumstanced with that of Mr. Mills, had been decided by the Lords of the Treasury in the same way as his; and to every application of the kind, in which it was sought to put forward the amount of emoluments of which the officer;
1244The Chancellor of the Exchequ
 did not intend to object to the names of any of the Members whom the right hon. Gentleman proposed to place upon the committee; but seeing, that those names were so unusually numerous, he was afraid that the inquiry would be a very protracted one. For his own part, he thought it would be found very advantageous if the inquiry were divided into separate branches; and the separate committee, consisting of not more than from twelve to thirteen Members, should be appointed for the consideration of each branch.Sir Robert Peel
 objected to this addition as aggravating the evil of which he had previously complained. He begged to remind the hon. Gentleman that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had already departed from the ordinary rules of the House, which was to limit the numbers of committees to fifteen.Sir Robert Peel
, as far as he was personally concerned, had not the slightest objection to either of the names suggested by the hon. Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Hume), but he felt that the efficiency of the committee would be impaired, if its numbers were increased. The committee, as he had proposed it, he thought was fairly constituted, and he hoped the House would not consent to increase it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 motion negatived.Mr. Hume's
 would not object to the addition of this name, if he were assured that no other would be pressed upon him.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
: If the right hon. Gentleman assents to the addition of Mr. Warburton, how is he to escape from the addition of Sir Henry Parnell.Sir R. Peel
 would take the sense of the House upon the question.Mr. R. Currie
1249 said that he did not desire to put the House to a division upon this point. If Mr. Warburton's name were insisted upon, he would not object to it; his only reason for not proposing it himself was, that he thought the Government was sufficiently represented
1249The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that it seemed improper for the right hon. Gentleman, after he had well considered the names of the persons to be nominated, now to alter the decision.Mr. Shaw
 would resist the addition. He would not give way, and would vote against the right hon. Gentleman, not out of any disrespect to Mr. Warburton, but because the committee was already quite numerous enough.Sir R. Peel
 suggested that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should substitute Mr. Warburton and Sir H. Parnell for some names already named on the committee.Mr. Smith O'Brien
 thought it not impossible that some gentleman named on the committee would not attend, and, under such circumstances, he would certainly substitute the name of the hon. Member for Bridport.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to add the name.Mr. Wodehouse
 said, that any joint-stock bank in the country could, if it pleased, become a bank of issue, and he could not, therefore, see any distinction between the two; still he thought that there was not a sufficient number of persons on the committee connected with these banks.Mr. Gisborne
1250 would read the names of the parties connected with joint-stock banks; Mr. Gisborne, Sir Thomas Fremantle, Mr. Matthias Attwood, Mr. O'Connell, and Mr. Hector, who were
1250The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know why a committee, which was very interesting to the whole community, should be secret?Mr. Hume
 reminded the House that, in all cases in which the Bank charter had been inquired into, the committees were secret, and had been secret with the greatest advantage, as the House thereby obtained much valuable information which would not otherwise be gained. He did not see any reason in the present case for departing from the former practice.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 trusted, that the decision was not final; and if Mr. Hume would press his objection to a division, he certainly should divide with him.Mr. Smith O'Brien
 said, that if by a secret committee was meant a committee of secrecy, it would be objectionable; but he did not so understand it: for the committee on joint-stock banks was a secret committee, and yet it obtained very valuable private information, the results of which were published to the world, although the particulars could not have been obtained if the whole had been published to the injury of the parties. All that was required was, that the committee should be at liberty, if it thought proper, not to publish the whole of every portion of the evidence.Sir R. Peel
 would like to know how far the secrecy was meant to extend; if he wished to contradict any statements that were made, could he communicate the evidence to the person who could contradict it?Mr. Hume
 said, that as the House had decided that this was a committee of secrecy, the hon. Member would not be at liberty to furnish to any person the evidence which might be brought before it.The Speaker
 could only say, then, that the committee would be of no use.Mr. Hume
 said, that the great objection to the Irish Poor-law was, that while it took away what had been truly described by the hon. Member for Galway as out-door relief, according to the custom of the country, it did not substitute outdoor relief according to law. The object of postponing this question had been to afford time for observing the operation of the Poor-law in Ireland, yet three weeks had scarcely elapsed since the establishment of the first union workhouse in that country. With so short an experience of the operation of that law, this bill was very premature. It would be much better to let the present system continue in operation a year longer before introducing such a measure as this.Mr. M. J. O'Cannell
1223 said, in answer to the hon. Gentleman's question, he begged to refer him to the answer he had given on a former occasion to a question put to him by a noble Lord on the other side of the House. He had then been asked whether a declaration of war had not been made by the Governor-general of India against China, and his reply was, that the Government had received no official information on the subject, and could not believe, that report to be well founded, but that it probably arose from the order sent out by the Government to make certain preparations. What he had then stated had turned out to be the fact, as had been proved by the recent arrival of official despatches. The orders
1223Lord J. Russell
llll rose to call the attention of the House to the case of Mr. Benjamin Mills. This gentleman had, for upwards of a period of thirty years, filled the situation of surveyor of taxes. His income during the war was 500llllLord Teignmouth
1254 supported the motion, It was impossible that there could exist two sorts of relief in Ireland—one in-door relief, according to law and the other out-
1254Mr. Lynch
 again explained the cause of his absence, declaring that he had again entered the House as soon as possible after the division.Sir Edward Sugden
 rose to express a hope, that the circumstance of his being absent from the House at the instant that his name was called by the Speaker, would not deprive him of the opportunity of submitting the motion of which he had given notice, relative to the appellate jurisdiction of the House of Lords. His temporary absence from the House was occasioned simply by his desire to escape from a division upon a question which he did not understand.Sir Edward Sugden
 was glad to hear from the noble Lord, that he meant to give full time for the consideration of this bill, upon which such great doubts existed. In reference to what the noble Lord had said, however, as to the understanding, with regard to this measure, at the time of the passing of the Irish Poor-law Act, he begged to remind the noble Lord, that the object of those who advocated the postponement of any enactment on the subject of mendicancy, was not merely to obtain separate bills, but to afford time for a full observation of the operation of the Poor-law in Ireland, before any attempt was made directly to suppress mendicancy.Mr. Shaw
l1245ll thought that the claim of Mr. Mills was so precise, and so fully supported by the Act introduced by the hon. Member for Pembroke, that it could not be set aside by any allegation of an old arrangement of a remission of taxation in his favour. The amount of salary which the surveyor received was uncertain, because it depended upon his own vigilance. There was a small amount of fixed allowance; but the rest was made to depend upon the vigilance with which he discharged the duties of his office. If any doubt existed as to the claim of this gentleman, he admitted that the matter ought to be left to the discretion of the Treasury; but where the words of the Act of Parliament were distinct, the individual ought to have the benefit of them. Now, though in this case the general words of the Act referred to salary only, the sense in which that word was used was explained by the particular clause, which provided any office clerk or other person who had served above ten years, and under fifteen, should be entitled to an annual allowance not exceeding a certain proportion of the salary and emoluments of his office; so that the word salary clearly meant salary and emolument. Yet here was the case of an officer who, after thirty-five years' service, came for compensation under that Act, and he was told that his fixed salary was only 90l1245llMr. Freshfield
 observed, that the warlike preparations going on in India being now a matter of public notoriety, and as great anxiety existed on the subject, he wished to ask the noble Lord whether he had any objection to state the object of the expedition, and when it was likely to take place?Mr. J. A. Smith
 thought, that the rule of the House was imperative. The right hon. Gentleman's name had been called not once, but twice. If he were not present to reply to it, he must endure the consequence.Mr. Hume
 said, that if the motion were for a committee to inquire how far the burdens thrown upon the public by the superannuation system could be got rid of, he should vote for it, because he considered that in the institution of that system, successive governments, instead of being niggardly, had been too liberal; but in the present case, as he fully approved of the course taken by the Treasury, he should oppose the motion.Mr. Hume
 saw by the instructions to the superintendent in 1833, reference was made to an order in council for regulating the trade with the port of China. He wished to ask the noble Lord if he had any objection to the production of that order in council? His second question was, whether the noble Lord had received and was ready to produce the remonstrance said to have been made by certain American merchants at Canton against the blockade?Sir James Graham
, seeing the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs in his place, wished to ask him two questions. The first question was, with respect to Opium. It appeared that a certain quantity of opium had been delivered up by the Superintendent at Canton, under certificate. There was reason to believe that a further quantity of opium had been purchased by the superintendent, and had been delivered up to the Chinese authorities, in order to make up the quantity mentioned in the certificate; no such transaction appeared from the papers which had been laid upon the table. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether such a transaction had taken place, and if there would be any objection to produce the papers relating to it? The second question he wished to ask related to the supposed destruction of the opium surrendered to and destroyed by the Chinese authorities. From those papers it did of appear that the destruction of the opium ad taken place; the only mention made of it seemed to show that it had been transmitted to Pekin for the use of the Chinese Government He asked the noble Lord whether he had any other information upon the subject, showing that it had been destroyed or so sent to Pekin, and if so, whether there would be any objection to its production?Sir James Graham
 asked whether it was proposed under this bill, to tolerate a system of mendicancy when the workhouses were full, which was forbidden when there was accommodation for the poor in those workhouses?Sir R. Peel
: But supposing the workhouse in any particular district to be full, and that it would be impossible to receive any more inmates, would mendicancy be in that case tolerated in that district?Sir R. Peel
 observed, that it would be extremely difficult to fix the parties with a knowledge of the workhouse being capable of receiving inmates. The noble Lord had used the word "disorderly." Did he mean by this, the act of demanding alms accompanied by violence? If nothing more than this was meant, then the bill would afford no relief to the smaller proprietors—those who were now exposed to affecting appeals to their benevolence—appeals which they were always very ready to give ear to.Sir R. Peel
 said, that in using the word "disorderly," he referred to the asking of alms in any manner prohibited by the enactments of this bill.Viscount Morpeth
 said, that in such a case, no alteration was made in the law as it at present existed. There would be no penalties where the workhouses were incapable of receiving inmates.Viscount Morpeth
 replied, that the penalties under this bill, only applied to parties taken up in the act of begging in districts where the workhouses were capable of receiving them.Viscount Morpeth
12531252 said, that in pursuance of the understanding when the poor-law passed, that the mendicity clauses should be embodied in a separate bill—in pursuance of the reports of the Poor-law Commissioners, and particularly of the resident commigsioners—and, lastly, in pursuance of the suggestions of many large bodies, and many boards of guardians already formed in Ireland—he now rose to ask for leave to bring in a bill for the suppression of mendicancy in Ireland. The present laws upon this subject in Ireland were liable to these objections and to these practical defects, that their definitions were obsolete and uncertain, or that they subjected the parties to such severe penalties as to defeat their own object; they gave the extreme punishment of transportation for vagrancy; and such was their severity, that, being repugnant to the feelings of the people, they could not be enforced. In the present bill, he had adopted so much of the vagrancy law of England as related to the suppression of mendicancy, without incorporating that portion of the English law which related rather to matters fit for a police code, than to the subject of the Poor-laws, He had endeavoured to make the law as simple, and the penalties as mild and as consistent as the difficulties of
12531252Viscount Morpeth
 said, with respect to these papers, he produced every thing that appeared to him necessary to elucidate the matter, and he had not the least objection to the production of those to which the right hon. Baronet alluded. With regard to the second question, he had not received any report of the remonstrance said to have have been made by the American merchants at Canton.Viscount Palmerston
1222 said, with respect to the first question, what happened was this—the parties in Canton having agreed to deliver up the opium in their or their agents' hands, each house made out a statement of the quantity they had in China, and the aggregate amount was given to the Chinese commissioner. One of the ships containing the opium disobeyed the orders of the superintendent, and sailed away;
1222Viscount Palmerston
1261 said, that although he joined the noble Lord and majority of the
1261Sir G. Strickland
TimesThe Times126812671266MorningTimes1265 said, that in pursuance of
TimesThe Times126812671266MorningTimes1265Sir R. Inglis
Times, remarked that the action was not against the Times,An Hon. Member
"And be it further enacted, that it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons who hereafter shall be a defendant or defendants in any civil or criminal proceeding, commenced or prosecuted for the publication of any such report, paper, votes, or proceedings, in any newspaper published according to the direction of an Act passed in the seventh year of his late Majesty King William the Fourth, chapter 76, intituled 'An Act to reduce the Duties on Newspapers and to amend the laws relating to the duty on newspapers and advertisements,' to apply as aforesaid for a certificate, stating that the reports, papers, votes, or proceedings, forming the ground of such civil or criminal proceeding, was published by order or under the authority of the House of Lords or of the House of Commons (as the case may be), and which certificate is hereby authorised to be granted upon such aplication, and, having obtained the same, to apply to any Judge of any of Her Majesty's superior Courts of Common Law, at chambers or elsewhere, upon an affidavit verifying such certificate; and further deposing that such publication in such newspaper was a true transcript or copy of such report, paper, votes, or proceedings, and thereupon it shall and may be lawful for such Judge, upon due summons and notice, to stay such civil or criminal proceeding upon such terms as to such Judge shall Seem fit."1269v had not recently read the law proceedings in the case, but his remarks referred to the discussion which had taken place in the House when reference had been made not to the comments in the body of the paper but to the extracts from the report of the committee of the House of Lords. He believed too that the action was brought for the reprint not for the remarks. In the case of the King "And be it further enacted, that it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons who hereafter shall be a defendant or defendants in any civil or criminal proceeding, commenced or prosecuted for the publication of any such report, paper, votes, or proceedings, in any newspaper published according to the direction of an Act passed in the seventh year of his late Majesty King William the Fourth, chapter 76, intituled 'An Act to reduce the Duties on Newspapers and to amend the laws relating to the duty on newspapers and advertisements,' to apply as aforesaid for a certificate, stating that the reports, papers, votes, or proceedings, forming the ground of such civil or criminal proceeding, was published by order or under the authority of the House of Lords or of the House of Commons (as the case may be), and which certificate is hereby authorised to be granted upon such aplication, and, having obtained the same, to apply to any Judge of any of Her Majesty's superior Courts of Common Law, at chambers or elsewhere, upon an affidavit verifying such certificate; and further deposing that such publication in such newspaper was a true transcript or copy of such report, paper, votes, or proceedings, and thereupon it shall and may be lawful for such Judge, upon due summons and notice, to stay such civil or criminal proceeding upon such terms as to such Judge shall Seem fit."1269vSir R. Inglis
bonâ fidePostMorning Chronicle,The Timesv1271bonâ fidev1270 could not help observing, that the hon. Baronet had of late very much expanded his notions of the benefits of publicity. At first he strongly insisted that the publication should be limited to 658 copies, but now, not satisfied with full protection to their officers in publishing the proceedings, he contended for unlimited impunity to all who copied their reports in the newspapers. He rejoiced the hon. Baronet
bonâ fidePostMorning Chronicle,The Timesv1271bonâ fidev1270The Attorney General
bonâ fidebonâ fide1272 believed the case contemplated by this clause could very rarely occur, because it seldom answered the purposes of newspapers to copy the whole of a report, their object being to give a
bonâ fidebonâ fide1272Sir E. Sugden
 said, he had been in some degree misunderstood, as to the machinery which was to be employed to effect the object of protecting the newspapers. He did not intend to give the Speaker all the trouble of comparison, as alluded to by his right hon. and learned Friend. He intended simply, that in the certificate it should be insisted that extract 271, or whatever number it might be, was published by the House, and that the newspaper containing that extract exhibited a fair transcript of it. All that the judge would require was a certificate that the transcript was a faithful one. As, however, he did not receive such support to the clause as he had anticipated, he would not give the House the trouble of dividing upon it, as he would at once withdraw his motion.Sir R. Inglis
 did not think it necessary to enter into any discussion in favour of the clause. He would content himself with simply observing, that the clause referred to numerous questions and actions which had been brought in the course of the present Session, and when they were legislating on the subject, it did seem expedient to put an end to the whole together.Lord J. Russell
 thought the clause liable to objection, inasmuch as it merely disposed of such actions as should be brought against their officers up to the time when the bill received the Royal assent. While it protected them in one instance, it seemed to throw a doubt on their powers hereafter to commit persons to prison for a breach of their privileges. He would therefore support the motion to omit it.Viscount Howick
 said, the clause in question would effectually prevent all actions for matters occurring up to the time when the bill should receive the royal assent. If this could be done without injustice, and without endangering their privileges, it was very desirable to obtain such an object. It had been said, that Mr. Howard brought his action because one of their messengers entered his house, and waited two hours for his return. It was for the House to decide whether that action was to go on. If the clause were altered as required, it would introduce great inconvenience.The Attorney-General
1274, if actions were afterwards brought, the House would be placed in the same difficulty which the clause was intended now to extricate them from. It was true the clause would get rid of all difficulties up to the time of the royal assent, but after that time, if actions were brought, the House would have to pro-
1274Mr. Darby said
 expressed his apprehension that the clause, although it might give a temporary protection, would have a tendency to weaken the privilege of Parliament if it should be necessary to take any steps with respect to any future actions. He had no doubt that the privileges of the House were equal to any emergency, but if they were pushed to an extreme, that might be productive of great public inconvenience. He had voted for the bill because he thought it would give a more simple and summary protection to the officers of the House. He apprehended the courts of judicature had ruled the right of the sergeant to execute the orders of the House. That right was distinct from the right of the House to print papers, but it might become a question whether the subordinate officers might not have exceeded their authority. He thought that they could have postponed legislation on this particular point until some other case should arise, when there might not be so much excitement of the public mind, it would have been a great advantage. But on the whole he was inclined to vote in favour of the clause, at the same time admitting the inconvenience to which he feared it might possibly lead.Sir R. Peel
 said, that there was no warrant, however legal in itself, which might not be illegally executed. He protested against the Speaker's warrant being considered a sanction for any unlawful acts which might be done under it. He objected to the clause, therefore, and hoped his right hon. and learned Friend would divide the House against it.Sir R. Inglis
 objected now, as he had done from the commencement, to the whole bill, and to this clause as well as the rest.Mr. Hobhouse
128412831282"The primary cause of the mischief at the academy is, that that establishment has been made an arena for political jobs." Again, "The children of political partisans have been admitted at the expense of the children of old and meritorious officers." "We should like to know how many of the children of families resident in the counties of Devonshire and
1282"I trust you will not be offended at ray addressing you by letter on this occasion; when you consider the utter ruin to my prospects in life which must ensue from ray discharge, and the pain that will be inflicted on my father and family, who are now all in New South Wales. I trust you will not be offended at the son of an old and distinguished soldier throwing himself thus on your kindness, good nature, and mercy."1281128012791278 was not surprised at the anxiety evinced by the hon. and gallant Officer opposite on behalf of the institution to which he had alluded. That House, perhaps, was not the proper arena in which the discipline of the academy should be discussed; but at the same time he was obliged to his hon. and gallant Friend for having brought forward the subject, inasmuch as it afforded an opportunity for contradicting the many unfounded, or as they might almost be called libellous statements that had gone forth to the public. With respect to the occurrences that had taken place, the facts were simply these. For a number of years there had existed at the academy a system equivalent to what was called "fagging" at public schools, and it had been reported to him, that under that system some of the younger boys had been much oppressed. Last year, when he was engaged in the north of England in the performance of his duties, he received information that
128412831282"The primary cause of the mischief at the academy is, that that establishment has been made an arena for political jobs." Again, "The children of political partisans have been admitted at the expense of the children of old and meritorious officers." "We should like to know how many of the children of families resident in the counties of Devonshire and
1282"I trust you will not be offended at ray addressing you by letter on this occasion; when you consider the utter ruin to my prospects in life which must ensue from ray discharge, and the pain that will be inflicted on my father and family, who are now all in New South Wales. I trust you will not be offended at the son of an old and distinguished soldier throwing himself thus on your kindness, good nature, and mercy."1281128012791278Sir Hussey Vivian
1285 said, he had not the return by him at present, but he thought about twenty-five or thirty in the present year. There were 128 then at the academy, and
1285Sir H. Vivian
 said, thirteen youths were expelled a great number of years ago, when a most distinguished officer was at the head of the Ordnance. The youths now removed were of the Senior Class, and for the oppression of the Juniors; and it was a curious fact, that during the time the committee was sitting, a great degree of oppression was going on, and there seemed a sort of determination among the youths to continue it, and that four who were excluded had committed the offence while the committee was sitting.Sir H. Vivian
 said, that the right hon. Master-general of the Ordnance having been attacked in the manner in which he had been, had no alternative but to adopt the course which he had adopted in defending himself. The right hon. Gentleman opposite had stated, that, in his opinion, there must have been great relaxation of the discipline of the Academy to render these punishments necessary. Now, he would put it to the right hon. Gentleman, whether it might not be barely possible that such relaxation of discipline may have taken place before his right hon. and gallant Friend had come into office.Colonel Anson
lllllll1292lllllllllllll1291lllllesprit du corps said, that before going into the Ordnance Estimates he was anxious to say a few words on what had just occurred. He felt highly flattered by what had been said by his right hon. Friend opposite, as a reason why he ought not to have replied to the charges which had been brought against him. Perhaps, as far as he himself was personally concerned, he ought not to have done so, but his right hon. and gallant Friend could not be aware of the mischief to the academy, which had been the consequence of the propagation of the atrocious reports to which he had alluded. He would now propose the Ordnance Estimates for the year, and in doing so it was not his intention to trespass at any length upon the attention of the House. The estimates of this year somewhat exceeded the estimates of last year, and in the debate on the Navy and Army Estimates, his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny had said, that there seemed to be a sort of lllllll1292lllllllllllll1291lllllesprit du corps1290Sir
1290
 regretted, that the papers had not yet been laid upon the table. He denied that there had been the slightest inattention on the part of the Ordnance to the state of the barracks, either in the Colonies or at home. His right hon. Friend knew well what were the regulations with regard to the barracks in the Colonies. In every colony there was an officer of the Engineers, whose attention was specially directed to the state of the barracks. It was his duty to make a special report on the subject. That report they got every year. The repairs and estimates were immediately considered, and what was necessary to be done was ordered; and he should not have the slightest difficulty in proving, when the subject came before the House, that no neglect was attributable to the Ordnance Department.Sir Hussey Vivian
lllllll1295 said, that as the discussion on the more prominent points of the estimates appeared to have closed, he wished to call the attention of the House to an item in the first vote, which, although it might not seem of great general importance, was one of much moment to the parties interested, and in its consequences not immaterial to the public service. He alluded to the disparity which was manifest on looking at the estimates between the sums charged for salaries for the gentlemen employed in the establishments at the Tower and Pall-mall and those paid to parties similarly occupied at Woolwich. The senior clerks at the former stations
lllllll1295Mr. W. Attwood
 said, that the difference in the amounts of the salaries to which the hon. Gentleman had referred had existed for many years previous to his accession to the duties of the Master-general of the Ordnance, and arose from the superior duties which the one class had to perform in comparison with the other, and the greater responsibility which attached to their situations. Taking these circumstances into consideration, he could not but consider that the difference in these salaries was fully justifiable. With repect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he must recollect that they had fifteen more colonies now than they had in 1792, and that they had of course an additional number of artillery, guns, stores, and other things to send out to them for their protection. With regard to the transfer of the artillery and engineering department from the Ordnance Office to the Horse Guards and the War Office, that was a subject which, in the absence of the noble Lord the Member for Northumberland, he would not discuss. He should, however, whenever called upon by the noble Lord, be able to show to the House that such a proposition would, if acceded to, tend to destroy altogether one of the most efficient departments of the service, and lead to enormous expense.Sir H. Vivian
1296 said, that much dissatisfaction had been occasioned by the disparity which he had pointed out, and he was desirous to know whether the
1296Mr. W. Attwood
 said, that they were well deserving of the commendation bestowed upon them by his right hon. and gallant Friend.Sir H. Vivian
 said, that he wished to have some information with respect to the dismissal of Mr. Foot, a solicitor to the Ordnance, at Devonport. That gentleman had been many years a solicitor to the Ordnance, and the general impression was, that he had been dismissed in consequence of the part he had taken at the last election for Devonport. He was dismissed after that election, and from that time to this no other grounds had been stated for his removal. He was therefore desirous of having some information from the right hon. and gallant Gentleman upon the subject.Sir J. Y. Buller
1297 said, that the hon. Baronet knew as much about this gentleman's dismissal as he did himself. It was not a matter which the Ordnance department had anything to do with; and the first he had heard of it was from Mr. Dawson, whom he had seen the other day at her Majesty's Levee, who had, expressed.
1297Sir H. Vivian
1298 said, he had never hinted that Mr. Foot had been removed for
1298Sir H. Vivian
 said, that Mr. Foot did not hold an official appointment. The appointment was one which rested entirely with Mr. Hicknett, as solicitor of the Ordnance, and that department, had nothing whatever to do with it. All the Ordnance did was to say to Mr. Hicknett that he should do the business, and of course he was to get it done in the best way he could. Mr. Hicknett alone was responsible to the Ordnance, and with respect to the dismissal of Mr. Foot, all he could say was, that he was not aware of the ground on which it proceeded.Sir H. Vivian
1299 could assure the House, that till he had seen the matter alluded to in the public papers, he had known nothing of the removal of Mr. Foot. What had been the motives which had induced the solicitor of the Board of Ordnance to transfer the business to another agent, he could not tell, but he could not agree in opinion with those who stated, that Mr. Foot had been dismissed from political considerations. The solicitor to the Board.
1299Colonel Anson
1304 did not believe that Mr. Foot had been dismissed from political considerations. Broad assertions had been made by hon. Gentlemen opposite in re-
1304Colonel Anson
 had made no assertion which he was not prepared to support. He had written to a friend of his to inquire into the circumstances of the case, and the answer he had received fully bore out the statements contained in Mr. Foot's letter. As to Mr. Dundas, his Friend stated, that that gentleman had made minute inquiries as to the amount of Mr. Foot's emoluments, and, having ascertained what that amount was, that he had then canvassed him in favour of the Government candidate. He also understood, that the solicitor to the Board of Ordnance had appointed a conveyancer in the room of Mr. Foot, and that that gentleman had been obliged to call in a solicitor to his assistance, so that it was likely the country would have to pay for both.Sir J. Y. Buller
 said, the fact was, they would have to pay for neither. They would only have to pay the solicitor appointed by the board.Colonel Anson
1301"Thus circumstanced as I have been with the Board and their solicitor, for more than half a century, it remains only for me, most reluctantly, to confirm the current reports, and to state, that in consequence of myself and
1301"After this statement, it may seem almost needless to add, as the fact is, that I never received the slightest indication or expression of the Board's or their solicitor's disapprobation of any one act done by me in my office; and that there never was any objection made to any one item in my professional bills of costs when presented for payment, though by the rules of the board, they were always very strictly examined.""During that very long period (of 55 years) I have conducted a great variety of law business (I hope I may be excused for saying) so satisfactorily, that the Board never, on any, the most important occasion, deemed it necessary to send down their solicitor to direct or assist me.""Most true it is, that I have had the honour of acting as law-agent to the Board of Ordnance, and their town solicitor at this place, for 55 years last past."1300 said, the hon. Member for Kilkenny would certainly not have his vote in favour of the Ballot. He sincerely rejoiced, that the Board of Ordnance had had nothing to do with this transaction. He at once acquitted the right hon. Gentleman, the Master-genera of the Ordnance, of having taken any part in the dismissal of Mr. Foot. The Ballot was not the proper remedy for evils of the nature, and he thought the best protection for official persons expressing their political opinions, was the public and genera reprobation which Mr. Foot's dismissal bad received. That Gentleman was upwards of 70 years of age, he was a person of the highest respectability, and had for the long period of 55 years, been honourably employed in the public service. Why then, bad he been dismissed? Surely,
1301"Thus circumstanced as I have been with the Board and their solicitor, for more than half a century, it remains only for me, most reluctantly, to confirm the current reports, and to state, that in consequence of myself and
1301"After this statement, it may seem almost needless to add, as the fact is, that I never received the slightest indication or expression of the Board's or their solicitor's disapprobation of any one act done by me in my office; and that there never was any objection made to any one item in my professional bills of costs when presented for payment, though by the rules of the board, they were always very strictly examined.""During that very long period (of 55 years) I have conducted a great variety of law business (I hope I may be excused for saying) so satisfactorily, that the Board never, on any, the most important occasion, deemed it necessary to send down their solicitor to direct or assist me.""Most true it is, that I have had the honour of acting as law-agent to the Board of Ordnance, and their town solicitor at this place, for 55 years last past."1300Sir T. Acland
 had one word to say. He thought the hon. Gentleman opposite was mistaken in saying that Mr. Foot had been canvassed by Mr. Tuffnell. So far was Mr. Tuffnell from canvassing Mr. Foot, that he said nothing to him, that could be considered a canvass. There was a gentleman present when they met, who said, that there was a mistake in supposing that Mr. Foot had been canvassed. He would say again, that the appointment did not rest with him, and he questioned whether Mr. Foot had ever any communication with the Ordnance Department.Sir H. Vivian
1305 said, that he should like to offer a few observations upon this subject, in which it must be supposed that he was in some degree interested. Allusions had been made to the conduct of Captain Dundas in this matter, and it had been said that Captain Dundas had been his right-hand man at the election. Now he begged to deny that such was the case, for in reality Captain Dundas had been in Devon port only two or three days during the canvass, which canvass had lasted during two months. With regard to Mr. Foote, there was no doubt that he had been canvassed. He believed, that he had gone to Mr. Foote himself, as he had gone to every one else. He meant to say nothing at all against the conduct of that gentleman, for be believed, that he was fully
1305Mr. Tuffnel
 complained, that a person named Colman, the printer for the Ordnance at Devonport, who had also voted for Mr. Dawson, had been likewise dismissed. A man named Underwood, who had charge of one of the Ordnance hoys, and who had voted for Mr. Dawson, had been removed to Woolwich and separated from his family.Sir J. Y. Buller
 stated, that Underwood's removal to Woolwich was not in the slightest degree connected with politics, and that of the case of Colman he knew nothing.Sir H. Vivian
 repeated, that in the appointment of the local agents the Board of Ordnance had no right to interfere.Sir H. Vivian
 had not made any attack upon the right hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite, or brought any charge against him; he had merely asked for an explanation, and he thought he was perfectly justified in so doing—he was glad to find, from what he had said, that the academy was now in a better state of discipline, and he hoped that the discipline would continue to be such as would enable the right hon. and gallant Gentleman, consistently with his duty, to consent to the restoration of at least some of these young men.—Subject dropped.Captain Boldero
1277 rose to draw the attention of the Master-general to the state of discipline at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich. He said that there had been various rumours circulated in naval and military circles that Government had ventured to make the patronage of this school subservient to party purposes. These reports, however, he believed to be unfounded. But there were other statements current respecting the discipline of that academy which deserved their attention. It appeared that the superintending authorities had thought it necessary in the course of the last season to remove no less than sixteen or seventeen cadets from that establishment. In former times that number was not removed in many years, and he feared that some of those dismissals had taken place on such light grounds as idleness, or boyish mischief. It should be recollected that such expulsions acted as complete barriers to admittance into the army and navy, and also to the service of the East India Company; most serious drawbacks to the advancement in life of a youth whose only error had been negligence of study, wildness, or thoughtlessness. He heartily hoped that no pupil had been expelled from the Royal Academy whose moral conduct had not been found tainted and stained with some criminality which called for such decisive marks of reprobation. In one case three of the pupils had combined to test the courage of a comrade. In pursuance of the joke, they got up a pretended quarrel, and charged a pistol with gunpowder, and a piece of sponge saturated with blood. The event was highly favourable to the character of the youth who was thus placed on his trial, and though
1277Captain Boldero
"Nulli negabimus, nulli vendemus, vel differemus justitiam vel rectum."1259 thought that, as the hon. Member for Finsbury had stated he had read the petition, and that he did not think there was anything disrespectful in it, the House ought to rely upon his word and receive the petition as unobjectionable, on the responsibility of the hon. Member who presented it."Nulli negabimus, nulli vendemus, vel differemus justitiam vel rectum."1259Captain Boldero
1260 said, that Stockdale having been committed for a breach of privilege, now approached the House under the guise of a petitioner, alleging that their proceedings were illegal, and their displeasure groundless; while, on the other hand, the sheriffs, by whom petitions had been presented, addressed the House in decorous and respectful terms; but the present petitioner not merely was disrespectful—not merely spoke of their proceedings in no measured terms, but sought to impute to them some of the gravest offences known to the law. He need not recur to other parts of the petition for the purpose of showing the disposition which the petitioner manifested to display what he thought his triumph over the House. He must say, that he did not think the petition was one
1260Lord J. Russell
 hoped the hon. Member for Finsbury would not press the reception of this petition upon the House. It was so far from being respectful in its terms, that he must oppose its being received.Lord John Russell
 wished that the noble Lord had not placed the House in this state of embarrassment. It could not be denied that these actions had been vexatiously brought by Stockdale, but the House ought not to be very delicate in the terms of the petitions of this nature, for Stockdale had the law on his side, although the House considered their law superior. He thought the petition was couched in a very bad sense, and he could very much have wished it had not been done; but, as they were carrying through a bill for putting a speedy end to these actions, which by law could now be brought, surely Stockdale might be heard at the bar in his own defence. They would not, however, shut out that remedy if they proceeded with the bill, and rejected this petition. He should, therefore, reluctlantly vote against the noble Lord.Sir E. Sugden
 said, the petition was read very distinctly, but the House not being aware that an objection would be taken on account of the language of it, had not paid particular attention while it was read. He had caught the substance of it, but had not caught the particular words.Sir Edward Sugden
 had no connexion with the army, therefore if he said anything on the subject it would not be to enter into military details. He could not, however, avoid thinking that there must have been something seriously wrong in the management of this institution, which rendered it necessary to resort to so severe a measure as the dismissal of no less than twenty five youths of sixteen years of age. He felt sure that the gallant Officer had acted only under a sense of duty—that much of the necessity of such a measure must depend upon the age of the parties implicated in these transactions. If they were of an age at which they might be easily led astray, he could not help thinking that expulsion, carrying with it, as it did, such serious consequences, was more than the necessity of the case required. If, on the other hand, they were of an age capable of appreciating the consequences of their conduct, then, however painful it might be, he could not deny the punishment was unnecessarily severe; but what he wished to urge upon the right hon. and gallant Officer was, that constant watchfulness over the institution would prevent those evils getting to that height, that to prevent them it was necessary to resort to such severe measures of punishment. He could not but think if care were taken, and the progress of these young men watched, and they received moderate punishment for the first offence, the necessity would be avoided of recurring to extreme punishment, which not only affected them immediately, but all their prospects in life.Mr. Goulburn
1286, as an officer, felt bound to state his acquiescence in the measure resorted to in the case of these young men. Most of them were fifteen, sixteen, or seventeen years of age, and persisted in their misconduct, and he did
1286Sir H. Hardinge
 wished to ask, if in the case of the barracks in the West Indies, there had been, on the part of the Ordnance department, anything like an accidental neglect in supplying the troops with proper accommodation? He did not for a moment impute intentional neglect, but he would ask his right hon. and gallant Friend, whether that accommodation could not be better afforded by some other department than the Ordnance. He had moved for papers on this subject, which, although laid on the table, had not been printed; and the noble Lord the Member for Northumberland had moved for other papers, which had not yet been produced. He hoped that when those papers were laid upon the table, some discussion on this subject would take place.Sir H. Hardinge
 thought the hon. Member had misunderstood his question to his right hon. Friend. He had mentioned that the barracks ought to be conducted by the Ordnance department, and not be under that of the War-office. And his question was with reference to the report of the commissioners recommending' the taking away from the Ordnance department, that branch of its administration, and transferring it to the War-office. When he recollected what was the state of the barracks when under the War-office, he could not help stating that in his opinion the Ordnance department was the best to take charge of them, and that should they be transferred to the War-office, a great detriment to the public service would be the result. He should view with jealousy any attempt which should be made by the noble Lord the Member for Northumberland, to transfer the barracks back to the War-office.Sir H. Hardinge
 observed, that it was most important that the solicitors engaged for the Ordnance department should be retained in the public service, the duties not appertaining to the ordinary business of a solicitor; and in no instance that he was aware of had a dismissal taken place except from professional incapacity. Now, this gentleman had served for fifty-five years in the Ordnance department, and therefore some urgent reason should have been given for his dismissal.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, he did not at all like this transaction—and could not see why a new solicitor to the Ordnance was to discard another because he chanced to be of a different opinion from himself. If there should be any change of Government presently—what would take place? Why, that if this was the rule on which this new solicitor chose to act with respect to the political opinions of others, the next Government might dismiss him on the same grounds, and by such occurrences, the public service would be put to inconvenience. This never was the system acted on by the Ordnance Department heretofore, and he very well recollected, that when he was some years ago attached to that office, there was a clerk there, a man of very good conduct and character in his situation, who seldom asked for leave of absence, except at the time when the election might take place at Rochester, where, being himself a Whig, he always voted for the Whig candidate, and no notice was ever taken of the circumstance. He did not think, then, that it ought to be tolerated that this gentleman who was newly appointed to the office of solicitor to the Ordnance should dismiss others from their appointments on the ground of a difference of political opinion—and he should have hoped, that the right hon. and gallant Gentleman, knowing Mr. Foot and his respectability and long services, would have taken the circumstance of so abrupt a dismissal into consideration.Sir H. Hardinge
 observed that he had had formerly some experience as to the Ordnance Department, and he could not but rise to vindicate the distinction of salaries to which the hon. Member had referred. The heads of the different departments of the Ordnance were very dependent upon the chief clerks alluded to; and he must say, that he had never found any set of clerks more competent than those of the Ordnance Department, whom he considered to be rather under-paid than over-paid. He could assure the hon. Member that the salaries of the chief clerks at the Tower and in Pall-mall were fully justified by the duties they performed.Sir H. Hardinge
 observed, that the petition was read in such a tone of voice, that if the House had been silent, every word might have been heard. If it was not heard the fault was with the House, and not with the clerk.Mr. Labouchere
 thought his right hon. Friend, the Master-general of the Ordnance had acted perfectly right. He had in fact, no option. There was nothing uncourteous in the observations of the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite, but he had read certain statements from newspapers reflecting on his right hon. and gallant Friend, and had asked for explanation. It was a price that all men who attained to eminent rank or high station must pay for their eminence to have their conduct canvassed, and when it was so canvassed they were perfectly right in offering any explanation they might think fit; there was nothing humiliating in such conduct. The hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite' had considered that there was something in the conduct of the Military Academy which required explanation—he was perfectly right in requesting that explanation. He had very properly asked a question, to which he had received a most satisfactory answer.Mr. Warburton
1294s1293 thought it was rather irregular in the right hon. Gentleman, who held himself up as the pattern of order and regularity, to introduce this discussion now, instead of when the subject of barracks was under consideration. He could
1294s1293Mr. Hume
 thought the question before the House one of very great importance. In his opinion, no person ought to be punished for an expression of political opinions, and he could not think it proper that any one holding official appointments under the Government should be dismissed from office for voting at an election according to his own views and sentiments. If such a pernicious principle were generally acted upon, the consequences would be most serious both to individuals and to the public service. He hoped they would never follow the example of the United States, where a clean sweep was made, whenever there was a change in the Government, It was the duty of the House to guard against such a proceeding ever taking place in this country, and he would offer a very simple remedy for their consideration. If the House would agree to adopt the system of vote by ballot, no person would be dismissed for political opinions, as the votes of individuals could not then be ascertained. When the question of vote by ballot next came before the House, he should claim the votes of hon. Gentlemen opposite, who complained o the dismissal of Mr. Foot.Mr. Hume
 thought that the House ought to know what the objectionable parts were. The clerk had certainly read the petition, but he believed the House had not heard one word of it. Some means must be adopted by which the petitions might be heard; and he thought that, in fairness to this case, they ought to know what the passages were which the noble Lord objected to.Mr. Hume
 said, he had supported the noble Lord in defence of the House, but as he had brought in a bill by which he declared all their proceedings illegal, that was all the difference between him and the noble Lord. Why, the noble Lord declared he required a new law, and consequently that he had previously been acting without any law. How, then, could the House object to this petition, because it said, that the petitioner had been illegally confined?Mr. Hume
 wished to know how many of the hundred youths, who were under eighteen years of age, had obtained commissions during the two last years?Mr. Hume
 bad heard of no complaints from any passengers on board her Majesty's vessels, over which the Admiralty possessed control, and would ask the hon. and gallant Officer upon what authority he made the statement.Mr. More O'Ferrall
1258 really did not know what passage in the petition the noble Lord considered as an insult to the House. He wished the noble Lord would mention what passage in the petition he considered to be an insult. He had read the petition, as he considered himself in a certain degree responsible for the language of the petitions he presented being respectful, and he must say he thought there was nothing improper in the petition. There were a few quotations from scripture in it, but the noble Lord could not object to them. He had so far considered the petition a proper one that he had intended to move the prayer of it should be granted, and that Stockdale should be heard at the bar of the House, previous to the third reading of the bill, which, as regarded Mr. Stockdale, was a bill of pains and penalties; and it was always usual in a case of that sort that the individual in-
1258Mr. T. Duncombe
 presented the petition of John Joseph Stockdale, now a prisoner in the gaol of Newgate, under and by virtue of the Speaker's warrant, praying that Mr. Howard, his attorney, his son the younger Mr. Howard, and the attorney's clerk, now confined in the gaol of Newgate, should be liberated, and that he himself should be permitted to be heard at the bar of the House against any bill affecting his right to plead in a court of law. The hon. Member moved that the petition be read by the clerk, which was agreed to, but it was perfectly inaudible in the gallery.Mr. T. Duncombe
 objected to the petition, because it contained irreverend quotations from Scripture.Mr. Greene
1288 entirely concurred with his hon. Friend who had just sat down. He had listened to the reply of his right hon. and gallant Friend with the greatest satisfaction, and although the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite had not made any charges against his right hon. and gallant Friend in bringing this: question forward, yet that hon. and gallant Gentleman had alluded to certain charges which had been made in the newspapers, therefore his right hon. and gallant Friend was perfectly right in replying to these charges. He entirely concurred with the
1288Sir De Lacy Evans
 would also view any such experiment with great fear. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had spoken of the artillery of this country in comparison with the artillery of other countries. Every military man in Europe acknowledged the superiority of the English artillery. He certainly lamented the restricted opportunity offered to the officers of the artillery and engineers. When the officers of these corps rise to the rank of colonels, their efficient services cease. Should his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny think proper to propose something to relieve these officers from this disadvantage, he would be disposed to give him his support.Sir De Lacy Evans
 said, that it had been repeatedly declared officially, that these gentlemen were not the officers of the Ordnance. The death of the previous solicitor was coeval with the election, and the appointment was free from suspicion.Sir De L. Evans
 said, that the hon. Gentleman had stated his belief, that no Government influence had been exercised in the Devonport election, and to that belief he was entitled. But the noble Lord had entered upon a strain of glowing eloquence, such as the House did not often hear, and had certainly afforded good ground for the suspicion, that there was something rotten in the transaction. He wished to know why it was thought necessary to make this appointment at the precise moment of the election.Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, that he agreed with his right hon. and gallant Friend, the Member for Launceston, that it was in the power of the right hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite, to see if the cause alleged for this gentleman's dismissal was the right one or not. This gentleman had served in the same situation for fifty years, and was a man of high character and respectability; and when Mr. Smith, the late solicitor to the Ordnance was appointed, he did not find it necessary to act as the present solicitor had done, and to remove Mr. Foot. The right hon. and gallant Gentleman had not been able to avoid saying, that that gentleman had interfered in the election against the Government candidate, and he could not but think it would have been more becoming in the right hon. Gentleman if he had looked into the case and ascertained the true cause of his dismissal.Sir E. Knatchbull
 would suggest to his hon. Friend and Relative that he should for the future take care to make himself acquainted with the facts of any case which he might think it necessary to bring forward, as it was not absolutely necessary that the time of the House should be taken up in investigating every complaint from a lady which might happen to appear in the newspapers.Sir Thomas Troubridge
1287 said, that the hon. and gallant Officer had made no attack whatever upon the right hon. and gallant
1287Sir Robert Inglis
Cheers observed, that the effect of the supposed innuendoes depended upon the interpretation of the quotations. They night or might not apply to the House. [CheersSir R. Inglis
1263 said, he should always be reluctant to reject petitions on the ground of any captious objections. They ought not to seek for any pretence for doing so; but he thought that, if there were an evident intention of offering a deliberate insult to any authority, that authority ought not to receive such petition, not so much on the ground of its offended dignity, as for the purpose of defending the sacred right of petitioning. The question, then, must resolve itself into this—was there, in this instance, a deliberate insult offered to the House? He thought there was. He could not understand what other object the petitioner had in quoting, as he had done, from a work which he printed in 1827, and published in 1831. When he saw those quotations, he could not hesitate to say, that he thought the mation went as near as possible to offering an insult to the House. And as for the quotations from the Scriptures, he thought it a very bad practice, especially when they were introduced for the purpose of insult If, therefore, he were to decide on the intention of this petition, he could not say but he thought there was an intention to insult the House, and that no petitioner had a right to use any terms which approached an insult. It was difficult, how ever, to exercise any discretion on a petition, except to reject it, particularly as it had been reserved until the last moment of the last day. He thought, also, there was another ground for rejecting it. By a large majority the House had determined they were in possession of this privilege. They had committed the sheriffs for not respecting that: one of the under-sheriffs had shown every disposition to defer to the authority of the House, and evert those who differed from the majority had given credit to the sheriffs for doing every thing in their power to conciliate their duty to the House. The under-sheriff had presented a petition to the House, and this was the way in which the present petitioner had spoken of him, to this effect—that the petitioner found, from the printed evidence taken at the bar of the House, that the under-sheriff had done all in his power to delay the administration of justice for unconstitutional purposes, and to save the House the amount of the compensation awarded to him. If the House of Commons declined to receive this petition, it would be because they had a right to require that the petitions pre-
1263Sir R. Peel
Asiatic JournalUnited Service Gazette had read the account in the Asiatic JournalUnited Service GazetteSir Thomas Cochrane
, before the House went into Committeee of Supply, wished to draw the attention of the House to the complaints which were constantly made of conduct pursued by officers in Her Majesty's service towards persons who might happen to be passengers on board their packets. These complaints more particularly alluded to the Mediterranean steam-packets—and one of the persons aggrieved, a lady, had at length come forward, and affixed her name to a statement of the grievances which she had suffered during a passage on board one of these packets. He hoped that these statements had been made under some misapprehension or mistake, as they involved the characters of several officers. The system, in his opinion, ought to be altered, as it made officers in the navy and army liable to be constantly called to a public account for their conduct, or submit to be accused of conduct which would be derogatory to persons of the lowest description. He, therefore, thought the Admiralty should devise some other means of conducting this branch of the public service—such, perhaps, as by appointing a superintendent to each packet, so as to relieve officers from their liability, and at the same time he would be a person to whom passengers might apply for protection; as the Admiralty participated in the profits, they were bound to afford adequate protection.Sir Thomas Cochrane
1303 said, the noble Lord had acted perhaps wisely for himself and the Government in endeavouring to distract the attention of hon. Members from the real question before the House. There was a great difference between the ejectment of tenants and the removal of persons employed in the public business from situations which they had long held, and with the duties of which they were fully conversant. There was no analogy betwixt the two cases. If the noble Lord had been present from the commencement of the debate, and if he had known that Mr. Foot had been for fifty-five years the agent at Devonport for the solicitor of the
1303Sir T. Fremantle
 merely wished to say, that, in his opinion, it was impossible for the House to listen to this petition, and not perceive that it offered a deliberate insult to the House. The petitioner talked of his illegal detention. That might be the opinion of hon. Gentlemen opposite, but was not the opinion of the majority of the House. It appeared to him that it was impossible the House could receive this petition, and he should, therefore, move that it be rejected.Viscount Howick
 said, that if the hon. Member for Finsbury pressed the petition, he should feel it to be his duty to move that it be rejected.Viscount Howick
1302 thought that the discussion of that evening would give great satisfaction to the public. It was certainly satisfactory to hear the warm and indignant terms in which hon. Gentlemen opposite had expressed themselves at a supposed interference of a person appointed by the Board of Ordnance with the individual whom he might think proper to employ as his agent in consequence of a vote which that individual had given at an election. It had been fully established by the Master-General of the Ordnance that the Board of Ordnance knew nothing of Mr. Foot's appointment or dismissal. He was appointed by the solicitor of the board, who selected his agents on his own
1302Viscount Palmerston
 understood that the right hon. and gallant Gentleman (Sir H. Vivian) had some further explanation to make with respect to the dismissal of Mr. Foot. He had no further question to ask, but he would be glad to hear any further explanation.Sir John Yarde Buller
1358"Signed, amongst others, by "William Foot," and "Josias Foot.""Devonport, November 21,1839.1357"We, the undersigned attornies, resident in the borough of Devonport, and township of East Stonehouse, have this day met, in consequence of the announcement of the right hon. George Robert Dawson, that he is a candidate for the representation of this borough in Par-
1357The Right Honourable G. R. Dawson's Election."The Right Honourable G. R. Dawson's Election.Master-general of the Ordnance, &c.""The Right Hon. Sir Hussey Vivian, Bart.,"J. HIGNETT, Solicitor.1356"He has also caused a letter to be inserted in a provincial newspaper (which has been transferred to the columns of the daily London journals), in which he alleges that he has, during a period of fifty-five years, acted as the confidential agent of the Board of Ordnance and of the Ordnance solicitor, and that he has been removed from the agency solely on the ground of his having voted at the recent election in favour of a gentleman who is opposed to the Government. That Mr. Foot should have imagined this to have been the cause of his removal I can easily suppose, seeing the very strong part which was taken by him and his son at the election both of whom were members of Mr. Dawson's committee, and actually in a placard pledged their professional time gratuitously to that gentleman. In reply, however, to Mr. Foot's allegations, I beg to state that that gentleman has entirely misunderstood the nature of his own position, as well as my motives for employing a new agent: for, in the first place, he never was the confidential agent of the Board, who have no such law agent at any station. His engagement was merely a personal affair between himself and the solicitor, who might with perfect propriety and regularity have terminated the agency at any moment, and who, upon a recent occasion, actually contemplated trans-
1356"Sir—In obedience to your order, calling upon me for an explanation of the reasons which induced me to employ a law agent at Devonport, in the room of Mr. Foot, who acted in that capacity many years for Mr. James Smith, my predecessor in office, I have the honour to state that upon the death of the latter, on the 24th of December last, all the law agencies, according to the rule of the Solicitor's-office, terminated. Upon my appointment by you on the 26th of that month, I alone became responsible to you and the board for the due performance of the duties of the office; and I, therefore, considered that I had a right to employ agents from amongst my own professional friends and acquaintance, wheresoever the business of the department might render it necessary, and without being required by the agents of my predecessor to assign any reason for so doing. I accordingly, very soon after my appointment by you, employed new agents at several Ordnance stations, including Devonport, and Mr. Foot is the only gentleman who has thought fit to make any complaint to me on the subject.""Office of Ordnance, 23rd March, 1840.1355 was obliged to the hon. Baronet for the opportunity, but he had no wish to make any statement, because there was no necessity. The other night, when the hon. Baronet complained of the improper dismissal of Mr. Foot, his gallant Friend near him (Colonel Anson) had said he would inquire about it, but he repeated what he had said the other evening,that the Ordnance department had nothing to do with the appointment of Messrs. Foot, who were only the agents of the solicitor. In consequence, however, of what passed, he did ask Mr. Hignett the reason of the change; Mr. Hignett stated the reason to
1358"Signed, amongst others, by "William Foot," and "Josias Foot.""Devonport, November 21,1839.1357"We, the undersigned attornies, resident in the borough of Devonport, and township of East Stonehouse, have this day met, in consequence of the announcement of the right hon. George Robert Dawson, that he is a candidate for the representation of this borough in Par-
1357The Right Honourable G. R. Dawson's Election."The Right Honourable G. R. Dawson's Election.Master-general of the Ordnance, &c.""The Right Hon. Sir Hussey Vivian, Bart.,"J. HIGNETT, Solicitor.1356"He has also caused a letter to be inserted in a provincial newspaper (which has been transferred to the columns of the daily London journals), in which he alleges that he has, during a period of fifty-five years, acted as the confidential agent of the Board of Ordnance and of the Ordnance solicitor, and that he has been removed from the agency solely on the ground of his having voted at the recent election in favour of a gentleman who is opposed to the Government. That Mr. Foot should have imagined this to have been the cause of his removal I can easily suppose, seeing the very strong part which was taken by him and his son at the election both of whom were members of Mr. Dawson's committee, and actually in a placard pledged their professional time gratuitously to that gentleman. In reply, however, to Mr. Foot's allegations, I beg to state that that gentleman has entirely misunderstood the nature of his own position, as well as my motives for employing a new agent: for, in the first place, he never was the confidential agent of the Board, who have no such law agent at any station. His engagement was merely a personal affair between himself and the solicitor, who might with perfect propriety and regularity have terminated the agency at any moment, and who, upon a recent occasion, actually contemplated trans-
1356"Sir—In obedience to your order, calling upon me for an explanation of the reasons which induced me to employ a law agent at Devonport, in the room of Mr. Foot, who acted in that capacity many years for Mr. James Smith, my predecessor in office, I have the honour to state that upon the death of the latter, on the 24th of December last, all the law agencies, according to the rule of the Solicitor's-office, terminated. Upon my appointment by you on the 26th of that month, I alone became responsible to you and the board for the due performance of the duties of the office; and I, therefore, considered that I had a right to employ agents from amongst my own professional friends and acquaintance, wheresoever the business of the department might render it necessary, and without being required by the agents of my predecessor to assign any reason for so doing. I accordingly, very soon after my appointment by you, employed new agents at several Ordnance stations, including Devonport, and Mr. Foot is the only gentleman who has thought fit to make any complaint to me on the subject.""Office of Ordnance, 23rd March, 1840.1355Sir H. Vivian
1359 said, as far as regarded the right hon. and gallant Baronet himself, the explanation was sufficiently satisfactory, but it could not be denied that Mr. Foot had good grounds for complaint. Mr. Hignett, though he had been doing business for Mr. Smith during the illness of the latter, had given Mr. Foot no intimation of the intention with respect to him. The first intimation which Mr. Foot received was from a report in a newspaper, stating that he was to be removed, and another appointed in his room. On applying to the editor of the paper to know the source of the information, he was told it was a mere rumour, which turned out to be unfounded, and the editor expressed his regret at its insertion. This was the first intimation which Mr. Foot had until the appointment was given to another, and under these circumstances he had reason to complain both of the manner in which the transference had taken place, and of Mr. Hignett not having replied to his letter. He would read to the House a letter from Mr. Foot, stating the fact which preceded his removal. Here the hon. Baronet read the letter, in which the writer stated, that on the 7th of January, 1840, Captain W. Dundas was introduced to him to confer about the sale of some land belonging to the Ordnance, and to procure information respecting it. That business being over, Captain Dundas turned the conversation to the subject of the election, and asked him whether he would assist Mr. Tuffnell. He replied, that being old and in ill health, he now took no part in these transactions. Capt. Dundas then said, "But there is your son, will he vote?" Upon which Mr. Foot replied, that his son was one of Mr. Dawson's committee. Captain Dundas then left, saying, that he was staying at
1359Sir J. Y. Buller
 could only again repeat, that he knew nothing of the appointment of Mr. Oram; and as to the letter which he wrote to Mr. Foot, he had not the slightest objection to its being read. With respect to Mr. Hignett not having answered the letter of Mr. Foot, he had inquired into the matter, and it arose from Mr. Hignett having been engaged at an Ordnance trial at Winchester.Sir H. Vivian
 rose to oppose the measure. It was not long since he had introduced a bill for the regulation of sewers in England and Wales. That measure had been maturely considered, and was ultimately passed into a law. It had now been in operation for some time, and during the whole period since its enactment not a single petition had been presented to the House, complaining of its provisions. He therefore thought, that that act should not be repealed, unless strong reasons were shown for the adoption of such a course; and he called upon the hon. Member to state the grounds upon which the present measure had been brought forward.Mr. Hodges
 felt a strong interest in this subject, and had last year introduced a measure similar to the present. That bill had been read a second time, and was then referred to a committee, in order that its provisions might be fully considered. The Committee, however, had not been able to sit long as he could have wished, and it was agreed, that he should introduce a new bill in the present Session, and that after the second reading it should be referred to the same committee as had sat upon the bill of last year. He did not therefore wish to press the bill beyond the second reading, and his sole object was to have it referred to a committee, in order that the whole subject might be fully considered. The hon. Member opposite complained, that this bill repealed the Act which had been carried through the House by the hon. Member, but, with the exception of two clauses, the whole of the provisions of the hon. Gentleman's bill were re-enacted in the present measure. The Act was repealed solely because he thought it would be more convenient to have only one act upon this subject. He had had communication from all parts of England approving of the principle of this bill, and only suggesting that certain alterations might be made in it when it was before the Committee. Under these circumstances, thesefore, he hoped the House would allow it to be read a second time.Mr. Christopher
 said, as to the first question, he had not taken the opinion of the law officers of the Crown; but, if the hon. Gentleman would put the question into a regular shape, there would be no difficulty in obtaining that opinion. As it struck him, the part which had been already given by way of endowment had become the property of the clergy, and was not now liable to be disturbed. With regard to the number of sects which would derive advantage from the settlement, he had received no explanation from the Governor-general, except that they were all recognized by different Acts of the Provincial Legislature; he believed that he could lay on the table of the House a copy of those Acts, but he had no specific information as to the number of the sects.Lord John Russell
1352 wished to put the House in possession of what he conceived was the state of the law with respect to the clergy reserves under the bill passed in Upper Canada. If the assent of her Majesty should be given to that bill, it would not in point of form prevent the United Legislature of the United Province
1352Lord John Russell
13541353: Yes. He believed the United Legislature would have the power, subject to exception, as to certain parts of the property now in endowment. With regard to that portion appropriated to endowments, with respect to the rectories endowed by Sir John Colborne, he did not conceive that the Colonial Legislature would have the power to disturb the arrangement; but with regard to distribution of the remainder under this Act, one-half to the Church of England and of Scotland, and the other half in some other manner, he considered that it would be subject to review, or to new legislation in the United Colonial Legislature. The hon. Member for Droitwich had referred to the Act of 7th and 8th George 4th, which provided that the produce of the sales should be invested in the funds of this country, and asked whether the produce could be invested in colonial securities without an Act of Parliament? This was a question on which the Governor-general of Canada requested the Government to take the opinion of the law officers
13541353Lord John Russell
13421341Civis Romanus sum."The political education of the people has long been complete; say, rather, it was complete when the people first set foot upon the soil."1340133913381337llMember1336dd.d.133513341333lllll133213311330132913281327132613251324 said—Sir, I have been anxious to take the earliest possible opportunity, after the arrival of the proposals of the Governor-general of Canada, to bring under the consideration of the House the important subjects to which those proposals relate, and I cannot but feel that the importance of the subject will of itself induce the House to pay the utmost attention to my statement. The subjects of her Majesty residing in Upper and Lower Canada, amount to more than 1,000,000; some calculate them at 1,100,000; and some at 1,200,000. They reside partly in one of the great valleys of the American Continent, near the great outlets which communicate with the interior of America, and partly near that series of magnificent lakes which are on the borders of Upper Canada. To provide for the interests of such a population, and to establish the species of Government which is best suited to that population, likely to increase not only by birth but by emigration, must, I am convinced, be to the House a matter of deep interest. But, Sir, beyond this I am anxious to bring forward a measure which may, if possible, put a stop, except on very rare occasions, to that interference of Parliament which has been rendered frequently necessary of late years. It is now nearly twelve years since Mr. Huskisson, holding the office which I have now the honour to hold, stated the grievances, which, as he conceived, affected the people of Canada, and especially the people of Lower Canada, and he induced the House to appoint a Committee to inquire into the subject connected with the Canadas. Since that time there have been various measures, various inquiries, and events of deep importance. There was the report of the Committee of the House of Commons, there have been inquiries by several Committees, voluminous documents produced, going into almost every detail connected with the state of the Canadas, with their laws, with their institutions, with the peculiarities of some of those institutions, and pointing out remedies for certain grievances. There have likewise occurred, in the course of that time, in two successive
13421341Civis Romanus sum."The political education of the people has long been complete; say, rather, it was complete when the people first set foot upon the soil."1340133913381337llMember1336dd.d.133513341333lllll133213311330132913281327132613251324Lord J. Russell
 said, that with respect to the clergy reserves of Lower Canada, and to the bill sent by the colonial Legislature for her Majesty's assent, he conceived, that the proceedings of the united Legislature would be subject to the provisions of the act of 1791. He was not prepared to introduce any enactment with regard to the clergy reserves of Lower Canada. There would be reserved to the two Houses of Parliament the power given by the act of 1791, and for the Crown to refuse its assent.Lord J. Russell
 wished to make one observation in regard to the Military Academy. Some charge had been made against the Ordnance on this subject, and in the debate which had taken place in regard to the matter he had been referred to. He therefore felt it to be his duty to state, that he did not believe the appointment of cadets to that institution was in the least degree influenced by political considerations.Mr. Shaw
13461345lll13441343 could not allow the motion to pass, without making some observations on what had fallen from the noble Lord. The noble Lord, at the conclusion of his speech, spoke proudly and fairly of free institutions. He was also occupied for a considerable time in pointing out, that nothing but misrepresentation and misgovernment had prevailed in Canada, for the last fifteen or twenty years. He had spoken of this in that glowing language he was so capable of using, but he wished to ask, whether this bill established anything like free institutions—whether a people, living at such a distance, should have all their regulations framed by individuals in Downing-street—and how the noble Lord could flatter himself that the public, either here or in Upper Canada, entertained the hopes he had expressed? He asked the noble Lord whether he had not pointed cut that, for fifteen years, whether the people of that province had not, by large majorities, passed a bill with a view to settle that question, which the noble Lord stated to be most important—and whether these bills, the expressed wish of nineteen-twentieths of the population, were not rejected? This the noble Lord had given as an instance of the beautiful result of our establishments and education in other parts of the world. What did the noble Lord ask the House to do now? He told them that her Majesty's Ministers would advise her Majesty to give her sanction to this bill, not that it was in his opinion right, but because a certain majority in Upper Canada had passed the bill, and the noble Lord said (which to him was most astonishing) that if that bill passed, the question would be settled in Canada. He asked the noble Lord, was this bill right or just to the people of Canada, which was passed by a packed Assembly, and to which the greatest possible dissatisfaction at this moment existed, and nothing that the House could do in withholding, or in allowing the Ministers to give her Majesty's consent to that bill would promote peace. He told the noble Lord he was as much mistaken in expecting peace from that bill as he was in passing his revolutionary resolutions of 1837. Three years had passed, and what was the noble Lord about to do? He was about to
13461345lll13441343Mr. Hume
 brought up the Report of the Committee on the Ordnance Estimates.Mr. Bernal
1350 said, that there had appeared nothing upon the face of the noble Lord's statements, or in the bills which he had laid upon the table, from which it could be argued that the Government bad paid the slightest attention to the threats of the Canadians; nor could it be perceived, on the other hand, that there was any tendency in the measure to sacrifice the rights of the French Canadians, or to attack in the sweeping manner that was asserted the tithes of the Roman Catholic clergy. These points being satisfactorily clear to his mind, he must say, there was nothing whatever in the bill to which he could not give his conscientious approbation and support, though it was entirely new to him in all its parts, and had been made known to him for the first time that evening. If there was anything he could wish to be altered or amended, it was the addition of some provision by which the colonists of a different religion should be located separately, each sect or creed having its own location apart from the other religious sects. He could not say that that part of the measure relating to the clergy reserves would produce entire satisfaction, but he was certain that it would lessen the discontent which had so extensively prevailed in Canada on this subject. He could see so much of general advantage in the noble Lord's bill, that he hoped the hon. Member for the University of Oxford would abandon his intention of proposing an Address to the Crown in opposition to it. When he was in Canada, he thought with Sir G. Robinson and other high law authorities, that according to the spirit, if not the letter of the act, the clergy of the Protestant Church of Scotland, as well as those of England, had an undoubted claim to a share of the revenues, and that it would be most unjust to yield to the exclusive claim which the latter had so tenaciously held respecting these lands. However, he did not think that the clergy of any other persuasion could make a legal claim. It had occurred to him then
1350Sir C. Grey
13491348 said, that although it might be improper to enter into the details of a bill not yet before the House, yet he took so much interest in the measure which had this night been brought under its consideration, that he could not refrain from saying, that with regard to one of the measures, that for effecting the union of the two provinces of Upper and Lower Canada, he entertained grave and serious doubts whether it would be productive of all those advantages which the noble Lord seemed to anticipate. With regard to the Clergy Reserves Bill, he begged to say it met with his strongest and deepest disapprobation. He could not avoid thus early expressing his entire condemnation of the principles upon which that bill was founded. Though he admitted he had seen the provisions of the bill, he would abstain from going into them until the House was fully cognizant of them. The House had, however, heard from the hon. Member for Kilkenny that this bill re-
13491348Mr. Pakington
 said, the noble Lord had omitted to answer two of his questions: whether the Legislature of Upper Canada could deal with the clergy reserves already allotted, and whether the noble Lord had taken the opinion of the law officers of the Crown upon that subject; and 2ndly, whether the noble Lord would lay on the table a return of the various denominations that were to avail themselves of this distribution.Mr. Pakington
1347 rose to protest against the latter part of the noble Lord's speech which related to the clergy reserves. The hon. Member for Kilkenny, in his elegant phraseology, told them that the Church reserves, as settled by this bill would be a "bone of contention;" he, however, was satisfied that that House and the other House of Parliament would not so far neglect their duty, as to suffer that bill to remain a part of the law of the land. What had the Assembly to do with this matter? Were they dealing with property of their own? Property made over to the Protestant clergy could not mean Popish clergy. Suppose, that, instead of this property having been made over to the Protestant clergy, it had been made over to the corporation of London. Where was the legal difference between an original grant by Act of Parliament and by charter to a Protestant clergy, and the property being made over to any given corporation in England? In either case was it not equally clear that it was not the intention of the granter that the Legislative Assembly should exercise any authority whatever over it? Could it be contended by any person who had read the debates at the time when the clergy reserves were first set apart, that it had ever entered into the contemplation of any person whatever, that they were to be applied to any secular purposes whatever, or to any other uses than the support of the Protestant clergy? The bill on the
1347Sir R. Inglis
1351 said, if the House were at this moment to enter into a discussion of the subject, it would be in the absence of most important documents—in the absence of the enactments by which the noble Lord proposed, in case of the union of the Canadas, to carry it into effect; and next, without the knowledge of the provisions of the bill by which the colonial Legislature proposed to deal with the clergy reserves. It might be said, that, although they were not in possession of the bill, they were in possession of its general enactments, and they might discuss its general principles. But there were other documents not before the House: he meant those despatches from the Governor-general of Canada, which he presumed the noble Lord intended to produce. So that, reserving his entire unfettered discretion to consider this mea-
1351Sir R. Peel
: Then the noble Lord proposed, with respect to the clergy reserves of Upper Canada, if neither House interfered, to give the consent of the Crown to the measure that night laid on the table, thus taking from the United Legislature of the United Province of Canada any power of dealing with the clergy reserves of Upper Canada; but, at the same time, the noble Lord proposed to leave to the United Province the power of deciding on the mode in which they should deal with the clergy reserves of Lower Canada, subject only to the disallowance by the Crown, according to the provisions of the Act of 1791.Sir Robert Peel
: Supposing, then, that neither House should interfere with the Clergy Reserves Bill as sent from Upper Canada, and if the Crown should give its assent, the noble Lord thought that it might not be a final settlement of the clergy reserve question, even in Upper Canada; but, that, in the Union Legislature of the United Province an act might be passed to apply the reserves to the purposes of general education, or to secular purposes; but that such act would not necessarily have effect till it had been laid on the table of the House of Parliament for thirty days. Was that what the noble Lord meant?Sir Robert Peel
5150 rose to bring again under the consideration of the House, with a painful recollection of what had passed last night, the same motion which he had then brought forward. It was not for him to enter into the details of those proceedings, but he must say, it would be well if they could be effaced from the journals altogether. As, however, reports of what had occurred had gone forth to the public—reports which he was sure would be received by the country with astonishment only equalled by disgust—it would be but proper that the public should be put in possession of the facts as nearly as possible as they did take place, so that the public might have an opportunity of judging which party was in the right, and which party was in the wrong. Having looked at the public prints, he found that a slight inaccuracy gave a different impression as to the state of the case, and as his reason for refusing to accede to the request of the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Secretary of the Treasury, did not appear in that point of view which he intended, he was desirous to correct the misstatement, and remove a wrong impression in that respect. It appeared in the public prints as if the request had merely been to postpone the motion for the writ from Monday to Thursday, and if that had been the case, and if he had understood it was only desired to be postponed for three days, he should have acceded, but he thought it would be recollected by all hon. Members, that he did not peremptorily refuse the request, on the contrary, if he had understood the postponement was merely desired from Monday to Thursday, and that on Thursday no further postponement would be required, or opposition offered, he would have been perfectly ready to accede. To that statement so made the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr.
5150The Earl of Darlington
53"Mr. Stanley said, it was at the express desire of the noble Lord he had made the request, as the noble Lord was desirous of suggesting some measure to check the corruption which was increasing to such an alarming extent."Times"That he distinctly told the noble Lord that morning, that it was the anxious wish of his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) to be present, and that it was his intention to propose some measure calculated to check the system of corruption that had been so extensively practised, according to the reports of the Cambridge and Ludlow committees."52Morning Post,"That as the hon. Member for Sudbury (Sir J. Walsh) had consented to postpone his motion to meet the wishes of his (Mr. E. J. Stanley's) noble Friend, the Secretary for the Colonies, he trusted no opposition would be offered to the arrangement ""Sir John Walsh said, he had just received a communication from the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of the Treasury (Mr. E. J. Stanley), that the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, wished to be present in his place when the motion for the issuing the Cambridge writ was moved; he, therefore, would put off his motion until Thursday next." begged to say a few Words in answer to what had fallen from the noble Lord who had again submitted the present motion to the House. He agreed with the noble Lord, that the country would form a just appreciation of the proceedings which had taken place last night. A complexion had been attempted to be given to the proceedings of last night which was not warranted, and it seemed to be inferred, that he had made a mere personal request for a postponement of the motion, and not on behalf of his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Colonies, who desired, and was anxious to be present when the motion was brought on. He thought he should be able to show, that this was not a fair representation of what had taken place. He would first refer to the reports which had appeared of the proceedings on the subject on Friday evening, in order to show the view he had taken. In the Times of Saturday he found it reported thus:—
53"Mr. Stanley said, it was at the express desire of the noble Lord he had made the request, as the noble Lord was desirous of suggesting some measure to check the corruption which was increasing to such an alarming extent."Times"That he distinctly told the noble Lord that morning, that it was the anxious wish of his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) to be present, and that it was his intention to propose some measure calculated to check the system of corruption that had been so extensively practised, according to the reports of the Cambridge and Ludlow committees."52Morning Post,"That as the hon. Member for Sudbury (Sir J. Walsh) had consented to postpone his motion to meet the wishes of his (Mr. E. J. Stanley's) noble Friend, the Secretary for the Colonies, he trusted no opposition would be offered to the arrangement ""Sir John Walsh said, he had just received a communication from the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of the Treasury (Mr. E. J. Stanley), that the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, wished to be present in his place when the motion for the issuing the Cambridge writ was moved; he, therefore, would put off his motion until Thursday next."Mr. E. J. Stanley
 said, that, of course, he was not answerable for what appeared in the public papers; but the hon. Gentleman appeared to have some misconception of what had passed between them when the hon. Gentleman called on him yesterday morning. Did the hon. Gentleman then tell him that he came to make the request at the desire or on account of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies? He was convinced the hon. Gentleman did not. It was true, the hon. Gentleman seemed to think it desirable that the discussion on the two writs should come on together, and he told the hon. Gentleman he was taken by surprise, and must consider the request. He did so, and sent an answer, in which he proposed a condition; that condition was not accepted, and therefore he had proceeded with his motion.The Earl of Darlington
 observed, that as far as he remembered, he had stated to the noble Lord opposite, that which he had just now stated; he was not sure that he had told the noble Lord opposite he came from the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies.Mr. E. J. Stanley
55"That Mr. Henry Clive was, by his agents, guilty of bribery at the last election for the borough of Ludlow.""That the object of those for whom he appeared in proceeding further was to prove acts of bribery, with a view to the matter being thoroughly investigated hereafter. After a discussion between the committee and counsel, Mr. Cockburn stated, that after the suggestion of the committee, he would conclude the evidence which had been commenced with respect to the vote of Timothy Meyrick, and then leave the case in the hands of the committee."54 wished to make two or three remarks upon the course he had felt it his duty to take on this question. The report and resolutions of the committee, he thought, rendered it necessary for the House to take some step prior to the issuing of the writ. Though there was nothing alleged before the committee as to a general system of bribery, still there were allegations of a general system of treating which counsel expressed a wish to be permitted to prove. The committee refused to comply with that request, and he had therefore thought that before the writ was issued, the attention of the House ought
55"That Mr. Henry Clive was, by his agents, guilty of bribery at the last election for the borough of Ludlow.""That the object of those for whom he appeared in proceeding further was to prove acts of bribery, with a view to the matter being thoroughly investigated hereafter. After a discussion between the committee and counsel, Mr. Cockburn stated, that after the suggestion of the committee, he would conclude the evidence which had been commenced with respect to the vote of Timothy Meyrick, and then leave the case in the hands of the committee."54Mr. Horsman
 seconded the motion.Mr. T. S. Duncombe
 expressed a wish to have the question of the new writ postponed, so as to leave it open to his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Colonies, to state the course which upon due reflection he should think proper to pursue. As he (Lord Palmerston) had had no opportunity of communicating lately with his noble Friend, he could not undertake to say what that course was likely to be. He regretted that his hon. Friend, the Member for Cockermouth, instead of the present amendment, had moved the adjournment of the question to Thursday; but still, if the House preferred dividing on the present amendment, he should feel himself compelled to vote with his hon. Friend. He regretted that Gentlemen opposite persisted in refusing what he considered but a fair accommodation under the present circumstances, namely, the adjournment of the question until Thursday next.Viscount Palmerston
59 rose to move a resolution similar to the one which he moved last night. He would ask the House what would be the effect upon all the other boroughs in the kingdom if the delinquency of Ludlow were to be passed over? He would move that the debate be adjourned until the earliest day on which the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, could attend in his place. He should like to hear what shield of protection the noble Lord was prepared to throw over the other boroughs, so as to guard them from similar contamination, if he succeeded in procuring the issue of a new writ for the borough of Ludlow. For himself he was influenced by no party motive in the course which he pursued, as he did not know in what way
59Mr. Warburton
60 could not help expressing a hope that the course which had been pursued on the previous night was not now about to be renewed. The request which had been made in the first instance to postpone the issue of the writ until the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, could attend, was not, he conceived, an unreasonable request on the part of his side of the House, or one which might, not have been readily granted by the other, without any great detriment to the interests of the borough or its constitutional right of electing a Member to serve in Parliament. For that reason he had voted for the postponement, but as that was refused by the House, he thought the House ought to abide by the decision. The course which had been pursued on the previous evening was not, in his opinion, a proper course, or one that ought to be persevered in on the present occasion. It formed a most dangerous precedent as to the mode in which the business of that House ought to be carried on. It was a privilege which he thought so valuable that he did not wish to risk its existence by the abuse of it. It had been stated by the noble Lord (Darlington), that if it had been intended to bring forward a motion relative to the borough of Ludlow, some ground might have been laid for postponing the issuing of the writ; and the hon. Gentleman, the Undersecretary for the Treasury, said, that the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, wished to have an opportunity of stating his views upon the general question, and of proposing some general measure for the purpose of preventing bribery and corruption at elections; but the hon. Gentleman did not know whether it was the intention of the noble Lord to oppose the issuing of the writ for the borough of Ludlow. That reduced the ground for postponement to the simple question of courtesy, which the House had decided against. It was perfectly true the Member for Cockermouth had stated that there was a case for further inquiry, but such did not appear to be the opinion of the committee itself. Not only had the committee not made any report of the kind, but the very statement of the hon. Member himself showed that they had thought proper to stop further inquiry on the part of the counsel, which, in his (Mr. Wood's) mind, afforded a proof
60Mr. C. Wood
6261 said, that if there was one thing more disgraceful to the House than another, it was the attempt which had been made to prevent inquiry. He felt surprised at the speech of his hon. Friend who had last addressed the House, he had drawn conclusions quite different to the conclusions drawn by every hon. Member on his side of the House. Was it not fair and reasonable for the House to hear that measure which was to be propounded by the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies? It might be a comprehensive measure, which would prevent the future recurrence of similar occurrences as those at Ludlow. The object of those with whom he acted, was to prevent that contamination which was sapping the very foundation of honest representation. His hon. Friend should wait to know the remedy to be proposed, and not withhold from the noble Lord the power of correcting these abuses, and it was the duty of the House to terminate such practices. There was no hon. Member in that House who regretted more than he did to stop those proceedings in the way which was being then pursued; but from the pertinacity of hon. Members opposite there was no other remedy to the evil, and the House provided for such an extraordinary occasion, and if the occasion was not an extraordinary one he would not adopt the present course. If there ever existed a case in which a minority should act against a majority, that case was the present one. The present, also, was the first election trial, under the new commission founded by the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel), who himself asked for
6261Mr. Hume
63 said, the House might as well discuss the matter there as in the lobby of the House, for the present question was one which would not be speedily decided. He would admit, that the course then adopted was not one that should be adopted in other than extraordinary cases. The present was that case, to which he very reluctantly assented. Nothing but necessity would induce him to take part in the present proceedings. Hon. Gentlemen might say "oh, oh," as much as they pleased and as loud as they liked, and might indulge their rudeness as they thought proper, it would not alter his conviction. The practice was undoubtedly dangerous; but it was a much more dangerous practice to encourage the proceedings at the late Ludlow election. It was his object, and the object of those who adopted that extreme course, to show to the country that it was the wish of that House to prevent similar proceedings to those at the Ludlow election. Was it not dangerous that those electors should escape unpunished? The eccentric movement of the hon. Member who had spoken last but one, was rather astonishing. The transition from the Treasury bench to the gangway below him, and from that to the Opposition side of the House, was easy and not infrequent, and alterations on recent occasions had occurred. What, he would ask, would be said of him, if he refused a similar request to that made to the noble Lord? He well knew how he would be represented by hon. Members on the opposite side, and by the Conservative press in their interest, if he refused the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) the delay for forty-eight hours, and in a case, too, of great calamity, to any motion which it was his intention to bring forward. When the report of the Ludlow committee was brought up, he (Mr. Wakley) moved to have it printed, and that the issue of the writ should be postponed; the Secretary for the Colonies then rose from his seat and objected, stating that no Member on the Opposition side of the House would move for a new writ without due notice. That fact was in the recollection of the House. The noble Lord had no notice of the motion then before the House. He was absent on Friday when the notice was given, and he had not in reality any parliamentary notice.
63Mr. Wakley
, interrupting the hon. Member, said it was out of order for an hon. Member to attribute motives.Viscount Castlereagh
 pronounced the hon. Member out of order, and called upon him to retract the offensive expressions.The Speaker
 said, he did not attribute dishonourable motives to hon. Members opposite, it was their practice he condemned.Mr. Wakley
 said that the practice was a more grave accusation.The Speaker
64 did not mean to say that hon. Members opposite practised bribery and corruption—far from it; he said that they merely supported those who did. They moved for a writ to furnish the electors of Ludlow with the earliest opportunity of selling themselves to the best bidders. He did not condemn any party —he condemned all parties, for there was not much difference between them. Indeed, the only difference was the shortest purse; but both parties bribed without remorse so long as their purses lasted. The seat for Ludlow was in the sale market. It was a matter for the consideration of hon. Members opposite. At the next election many may have long and large election bills furnished them, and when these bills were presented, those who preferred them might say they were moderate and reasonable bills when compared with the Ludlow charges. He would not allude to one party more than to another. A constituent of his own, Mr. Coppock, was also involved in these proceedings. He had no interest in these proceedings, for if a new election did take place, the Member who would be returned would sit upon his side of the House; but Ludlow he considered a most corrupt and rascally place. Upon the evidence of one of these witnesses, the committee so decided, and that, too, a newly constituted tribunal, which was to work for the respect-
64Mr. Wakley
65 felt some difficulty as to the vote he should give upon the matter immediately before the House, but he thought that the present discussion ought to be adjourned till Thursday next —that the request for the adjournment ought to have been complied with. At all events there was sufficient misconduct shown in the evidence before the Ludlow committee on the part of the electors of Ludlow as to make a demand for delay not altogether preposterous. With respect to the understanding that sufficient notice of the intention of moving for a new writ should be given, he did not mean to say, that there was an actual breach of contract on the part of hon. Members opposite, but he thought that
65Viscount Morpeth
 said, that although that (the Opposition) side had still a majority, and were, therefore, entitled to persevere against the attempts of the minority, his advice was, that they should agree to the question of adjournment, on the understanding, that no public business should have precedence of the question of issuing the writ.Sir H. Peel
 did not intend to offer any objection to the printing of the petition, but ha thought this was one of those cases in which the House should be on its guard as to printing and publishing, and such petitions as this should be printed and distributed solely for the use of the Members. The House ought to guard against sending into general circulation matters which might be highly libellous. He did not intend to make any motion on the subject, but he ventured to throw out the suggestion that it was a case in which the House should act with caution.Lord Stanley
71 said, the question was an important one, for unless the House exer-
71Lord Stanley
 thought that the circumstance referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman was a report of a commission which had been made to the Crown, and by her Majesty's order laid on the Table of that House. If there were any doubts as to the contents of the petition, it ought to be read at length.Mr. Hume
 agreed as to the caution which should be observed in printing such petitions. The present, as he had already observed, had been printed last year.Mr. T. Duncombe
l.69 said, he had to present a petition signed by 16,000 inhabitants of
l.69Mr. T. Duncombe
70 presented a petition from Thomas Fuller, who stated, that he had been tried for cutting and maiming, which was done solely in his own defence; that he had been found guilty, not by the jury,
70Mr. T. Duncombe
 concurred in the view taken of it by the noble Lord who had just addressed the House. A petition of this kind might be made an exception to the papers which were sold. It was a petition of this kind which had for a time brought some doubt on what was one of the certain privileges of the House.The Attorney-General
 inquired whether Mr. M'Neil was still the envoy in our service?Sir S. Cannning
 rose for the purpose of moving "that Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to the clerk of the Crown to make out a new writ for electing a burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Ludlow, the lust election of a burgess to serve in Parliament for the said borough having been determined to be void." He was happy to see the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, in his place, and as the public journals must have made him acquainted with the proceedings in that House, he would offer no further observations to the noble Lord than to say, that if, in consequence of what he had heard or seen, he supposed he meant any discourtesy in the course he had taken, he begged to assure him, that it was far from his intention to do anything of the kind. No person could have been more happy to have done anything to meet the wishes of the noble Lord; and if, after that explanation, he still thought he was in the wrong, no one could regret it more. With these observations he would move, that a new writ do issue for the borough of Ludlow, and after he had heard what the noble Lord had to say on the subject, perhaps the House would allow him to make a few remarks.The Earl of Darlington
 would offer a very few observations to the House, in answer to what had fallen from the noble Lord. So far from disapproving of the principles which he had laid down, and so far from differing from him, as to the necessity of the measure of which he had given notice, he could only say, that there was no part of it in which he should not concur. He assured the noble Lord, that he wished that he should not be considered to have acted rashly or hastily in bringing forward this motion. After having waited several days after the evidence had been printed, he thought that sufficient time had elapsed to enable every hon. Member to become acquainted with it, if he chose; and he conceived also, that if there had been any intention to move a suspension of the writ, a notice to that effect would have been placed upon the paper.The Earl of Darlington
 said, he should strenuously recommend his hon. Friend, the Member for Lambeth, to press his amendment to a division, and if he did so, were there but half-a-dozen to join them, he would divide with them. He asked what new circumstances had transpired to render that course wrong now which was right the other night. If he had not thought the noble Lord entertained the same view of this question with himself, he would never have persisted in those divisions. The hon. Gentleman then entered into a detail of the proceedings of the committee, and said, he could not but think the counsel were of opinion the committee had done their duty, and that it was not necessary for them to proceed further, as the matter would be investigated before another tribunal. On these grounds he voted with the hon. Member, for Lambeth, and would observe to the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool, the very circumstance mentioned by the noble Lord, made it imperative upon him to show that lie was not acting in this business from party motives. As to the suspending of the writ, and the committee of inquiry afterwards, they must take place together or not at all. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had quoted a variety of precedents; and when he thought the noble Lord was going to act upon them, he found he meant to act directly contrary, and consent that the writ should issue; but although the noble Lord had not convinced himself, he had convinced him, and he should therefore, support the amendment of the hon. Member for Lambeth.Mr. Aglionby
l.l.112 remarked that the bribery at Cambridge was not proved to be so
l.l.112Mr. Warburton
113 wished to ask why it was, that the committee had passed resolutions respecting the bribery practised by the agents of Mr. Sutton. It was distinctly proved that there were fifty or sixty houses kept
113Mr. Hume
 was never more surprised than at hearing the sentiments which had been expressed by the hon. Members for Bridport and Kilkenny. It had been the invariable custom and practice of the House when any person had committed a contempt of its privileges, and had come under its displeasure, not to release that individual except on petition acknowledging his offence. Now, if ever there was a case of gross contempt, it was that which these individuals had committed in having persevered in doing that which the House had distinctly voted to be an offence, and of repeating that offence while under confinement. Why was the House to deviate, in this instance, from that which had been the uniform practice—namely, of requiring the parties to petition for their discharge? If the parties did not choose to petition, they were not entitled to any feeling of sympathy. They had persevered as long as they could in bringing fresh actions, which had been previously voted to be a contempt of the House. They had been for some time in confinement, it was true, and if they would present a petition for their discharge he should not object to it, but until they did he thought the usual practice of the House ought not to be departed from, and that they ought not to be discharged. It was said, that they could not repeat the offence. True; but he was not aware that the action against the Sergeant-at-Arms had been abandoned. But be that as it might, he considered the original offence was by no means purged by their imprisonment.Mr. Pryme
89"But the lavish expensiveness of elections extends its pernicious influence far beyond the leaders of the contending sides. It promotes almost every kind of vice, and supplies, without limit, the materials for drunkenness to the voters and their families, with all its attendant effects on their morals and habits of life. It is injurious to the peace of society, by familiarizing the lower ranks to scenes of profligacy and riot. It is injurious to commerce, by accustoming the manufacturer to idleness and intemperance, thus rendering him indisposed or unable to work. It is injurious to the national strength, by ruining the health together with the morals of the subject. It is injurious to the constitution, by extinguishing public spirit and virtuous principles of political conduct in the breast of the people, and by impressing the considerate and the good with such an abhorrence of the numberless mischiefs arising from it, as to deter them from coming forward as candidates and almost to inspire them with disgust against elections and Parliaments. In all these different ways, as well as by its immediate effects on the House of Commons, it preys on the welfare, and endangers the stability of the empire.''" Inquiry into the Duties of Man"88878685848382Robert Peel:teste81testetesteteste80797877 could assure the noble Lord that he had no intention of accusing him of any want of courtesy to himself, nor would he have made such an accusation, nor presume to think it discourteous, even if the noble Lord had stated, that he entirely disregarded any request which might have been made; for he should have thought such a declaration entirely consistent with the noble Lord's sense of public duty to that House. He considered, however, that the present was a question of very great public importance, and the noble Lord would allow him to say further, that he did not think the noble Lord had taken up that view which was consistent with the advantage of that House in making the proposition he had made,
89"But the lavish expensiveness of elections extends its pernicious influence far beyond the leaders of the contending sides. It promotes almost every kind of vice, and supplies, without limit, the materials for drunkenness to the voters and their families, with all its attendant effects on their morals and habits of life. It is injurious to the peace of society, by familiarizing the lower ranks to scenes of profligacy and riot. It is injurious to commerce, by accustoming the manufacturer to idleness and intemperance, thus rendering him indisposed or unable to work. It is injurious to the national strength, by ruining the health together with the morals of the subject. It is injurious to the constitution, by extinguishing public spirit and virtuous principles of political conduct in the breast of the people, and by impressing the considerate and the good with such an abhorrence of the numberless mischiefs arising from it, as to deter them from coming forward as candidates and almost to inspire them with disgust against elections and Parliaments. In all these different ways, as well as by its immediate effects on the House of Commons, it preys on the welfare, and endangers the stability of the empire.''" Inquiry into the Duties of Man"88878685848382Robert Peel:teste81testetesteteste80797877Lord J. Russell
90 begged to say a few words in explanation. What he had intended to say was, that although he should vote for the issuing of this writ, that did not preclude him, if he should think proper, from subsequently giving his vote
90Lord John Russell
l.l.l."What did Mr. Griffiths say?—He said, which way do you mean to come out this election? I said for myself; on which Griffiths said, 'Oh, if you mean that, I will put 100l.92l.l.l.l;"What did he say?—He first said 100l.l.l.l;"Revis came on Tuesday morning, and found you at your office?—Yes."Did you understand his object to be to offer you money?—Most certainly; I was well aware, that if I had complied, money would not have been wanting to any extent."You do not recollect whether he (Revis) said anything to you about fifty reasons or not? — I cannot say."What were you to do with him?—To have kept him drinking the liquor, that he might be kept out of the way till the next morning, in time for polling. He voted for Mr. Clive."You have said you was sent with a bottle of gin and a bottle of brandy to a voter named Bright?—Yes."Do you mean your house?—Yes, he is a man that likes something to drink.l."Who?—Mr. Downes, Mr. Coppock, Mr. Tyler, and me. Mr. Coppock and Mr. Downes sat down; Mr. Tyler stood up. Mr. Downes said, 'Now, Mr. Tyler, let me settle with you first; what can you do with Bromfield?' I said he would not vote for Mr. Alcock on any account, but if I offered a sum he will go out of the way. Mr. Downes and Mr. Coppock consulted what Mr. Tyler should offer him; one of them desired Tyler to go and offer him 10l."Did they come to your house?—Yes."And there he gave you three ten-pound notes?—Yes, from among a great number."When Mr. Coppock came to your house, what did you say to him?—I said, here is Samuel Cook. Mr. Coppock passed him, and went into the smoking-room.l.91"Did any thing else pass?—Yes; there was a good deal of conversation; Evans, of the Elephant, and me were leaving; Mr. Downes called us back, and said we were to use every endeavour, and render every assistance to win the election, for they were determined to win, they were determined to go all lengths; Mr. Alcock and Mr. Coppock coincided with him. They heard it, they were all sitting at the same table. Mr. Coppock and Mr. Downes said they hoped I would use every endeavour to prevail on Cook; Mr. Alcock would make him any recompense—return him tenfold any loss
l.91"What was the conversation?—That Mr. Downes and Mr. Alcock had come amongst us again to be a candidate."Do you remember any conversation taking place?—Yes. must still persevere in the amendment which he had before proposed, for a committee to inquire into the practices carried on previous to, and during the election; and he could not help thinking, that on the evidence there were ample grounds for taking this course. It appeared to him, that both with respect to the character of the House, and its best interests, if these practices were known in any instance to prevail, they ought not to be allowed to puss without a most searching inquiry being made into them. The omission to adopt such a course as he recommended, he thought, would be only to bring the House into disrespect and contempt. He had said, on a former occasion, that bribery was as bad as treating. He begged now to repeat that declaration, that between treating and bribery he made no distinction, and he thought that any man who would take a person to the poll to vote, in a state of drunkenness, was unworthy of a seat in that House. For his own part, he begged to disclaim all party feeling upon this subject; but he must say, that he had been astonished that hon. Members opposite had sat silent on a question of this sort. He was surprised that persons who were so zealous in defending the interests of the church, had not come forward to condemn the practices proved in this case to have existed. The evidence went to show facts which he thought would fully justify this amendment, and which proved bribery to have been carried on in the coolest and most business-like manner. George Tilley, landlord of the Compasses, was asked—
l.l.l."What did Mr. Griffiths say?—He said, which way do you mean to come out this election? I said for myself; on which Griffiths said, 'Oh, if you mean that, I will put 100l.92l.l.l.l;"What did he say?—He first said 100l.l.l.l;"Revis came on Tuesday morning, and found you at your office?—Yes."Did you understand his object to be to offer you money?—Most certainly; I was well aware, that if I had complied, money would not have been wanting to any extent."You do not recollect whether he (Revis) said anything to you about fifty reasons or not? — I cannot say."What were you to do with him?—To have kept him drinking the liquor, that he might be kept out of the way till the next morning, in time for polling. He voted for Mr. Clive."You have said you was sent with a bottle of gin and a bottle of brandy to a voter named Bright?—Yes."Do you mean your house?—Yes, he is a man that likes something to drink.l."Who?—Mr. Downes, Mr. Coppock, Mr. Tyler, and me. Mr. Coppock and Mr. Downes sat down; Mr. Tyler stood up. Mr. Downes said, 'Now, Mr. Tyler, let me settle with you first; what can you do with Bromfield?' I said he would not vote for Mr. Alcock on any account, but if I offered a sum he will go out of the way. Mr. Downes and Mr. Coppock consulted what Mr. Tyler should offer him; one of them desired Tyler to go and offer him 10l."Did they come to your house?—Yes."And there he gave you three ten-pound notes?—Yes, from among a great number."When Mr. Coppock came to your house, what did you say to him?—I said, here is Samuel Cook. Mr. Coppock passed him, and went into the smoking-room.l.91"Did any thing else pass?—Yes; there was a good deal of conversation; Evans, of the Elephant, and me were leaving; Mr. Downes called us back, and said we were to use every endeavour, and render every assistance to win the election, for they were determined to win, they were determined to go all lengths; Mr. Alcock and Mr. Coppock coincided with him. They heard it, they were all sitting at the same table. Mr. Coppock and Mr. Downes said they hoped I would use every endeavour to prevail on Cook; Mr. Alcock would make him any recompense—return him tenfold any loss
l.91"What was the conversation?—That Mr. Downes and Mr. Alcock had come amongst us again to be a candidate."Do you remember any conversation taking place?—Yes.Mr. Hawes
 said, that he could not reconcile it with what he considered to be his duty, to give up the motion which he had made on a former evening, for the purpose of obtaining a select committee for inquiring into the corrupt practices which had been proved to exist at the Ludlow election, in consequence of anything which had fallen from the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies.Mr. Hawes
 wished that the clemency which had been so generally extended to night were still further extended, and allowed to embrace the case of John Thorogood.Mr. Baines
107"WILLIAM LLOYD,""I am, dear Sir, your's faithfully,"I trust the testimonial your friends here will shortly present to you, will convince your new acquaintance of the estimation in which you were held at Ludlow."I lament your loss, as well personally as on public grounds, but it is some consolation that if we have lost your services, our Conservative county will reap the advantage, and be much benefitted."Dear Sir—It affords me great pleasure to add my testimony to your zealous and indefatigable conduct whilst in Ludlow, not only in promoting the best interest of the Conservative cause, but generally, whenever an opportunity occurred in which your services were required for the good of the town and neighbourhood."HENRY WHITTALL.""I remain, yours truly,"Dear Sir—I understand that you wish testimonials from your old friends here to your new ones at Salop. I, for one, am proud and happy to have an opportunity of recording the well-merited approbation your talent and exertions have created, and to that I may add sincere regret at your departure. The general feeling and expression is, 'We ne'er shall see his like again.' You have, however, left behind such works as can never be forgotten whilst the fame of Revis's Rooms can be lisped out by the youngest Conservative, or gazed at with envy by the levelling Radicals. My pen will not do justice to such a willing, able, and powerful advocate for the good cause of Conservatism; but to that I would wish to say, honour and integrity in no small degree have ever marked your progress at Ludlow. These sentiments in a short time will be responded to by a present of plate now being subscribed for by the intelligent and influential part of our little borough; and as you are not so well aware of this matter, I send, in the mean time, the names of a few of the subscribers.106 said, the case of Ludlow might not have been worse than many previous cases, but it was very bad, and under a new system of trying election petitions, the public had a right to expect a rigid inquiry into every case of corruption. The system was brought to the utmost perfection at Ludlow. The machinery of treating was complete, and yet it was almost impossible to discover those who set it in motion. It was attempted on the other side to throw discredit on the evidence of Mr. Revis, by whom bribery was
107"WILLIAM LLOYD,""I am, dear Sir, your's faithfully,"I trust the testimonial your friends here will shortly present to you, will convince your new acquaintance of the estimation in which you were held at Ludlow."I lament your loss, as well personally as on public grounds, but it is some consolation that if we have lost your services, our Conservative county will reap the advantage, and be much benefitted."Dear Sir—It affords me great pleasure to add my testimony to your zealous and indefatigable conduct whilst in Ludlow, not only in promoting the best interest of the Conservative cause, but generally, whenever an opportunity occurred in which your services were required for the good of the town and neighbourhood."HENRY WHITTALL.""I remain, yours truly,"Dear Sir—I understand that you wish testimonials from your old friends here to your new ones at Salop. I, for one, am proud and happy to have an opportunity of recording the well-merited approbation your talent and exertions have created, and to that I may add sincere regret at your departure. The general feeling and expression is, 'We ne'er shall see his like again.' You have, however, left behind such works as can never be forgotten whilst the fame of Revis's Rooms can be lisped out by the youngest Conservative, or gazed at with envy by the levelling Radicals. My pen will not do justice to such a willing, able, and powerful advocate for the good cause of Conservatism; but to that I would wish to say, honour and integrity in no small degree have ever marked your progress at Ludlow. These sentiments in a short time will be responded to by a present of plate now being subscribed for by the intelligent and influential part of our little borough; and as you are not so well aware of this matter, I send, in the mean time, the names of a few of the subscribers.106Mr. Horsman
 said, that the question did not come directly before the committee. For his own part, he reserved his belief until he saw whether the other parties would be brought forward to confute the statements of Mr. Revis, and until the last moment he did not know but that they might be put into the box. Upon the whole there were abundant grounds for inquiry. A general system of treating was established, and both candidates were proved guilty of bribery. He should vote, therefore, for the motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth.Mr. Horsman
10099, as chairman of the committee, begged to thank the right hon. Baronet for the manner in which he had spoken of their proceedings. The right hon. Baronet had inferred that had the committee believed in the existence of any general system of bribery they would have reported it to the House. His own opinion (and he begged to be understood as expressing his individual opinion only) was, that the committee felt that they were called upon to decide upon a limited number of cases, and that the instant they came to an affirmative decision on one of those cases, it became their duty to intimate to the counsel for prosecuting such cases, that the committee were satisfied that bribery had been committed, one case of bribery being sufficient as the House was aware to establish the case of the petitioning party. The committee felt, also, what had been urged by the right hon. Baronet, that in asking the prosecuting party to proceed beyond the point that was necessary to establish his case, they would be unfairly putting him to expense, and, at the same time, putting him in the situation of public prosecutor.
10099Mr. A. Sanford
104"The committee-room was cleared, after some time the counsel and parties were again called in, and informed, that in consequence of the communication which was made to the committee yesterday by Mr. Austen, the committee had come to the following resolution:— 'That Henry Clive, Esq., by his agents, was guilty of treating at the last election for the borough of Ludlow;' and the chairman added that he was directed by the committee to ask the parties whether, the committee having come to that resolution, it was their wish to proceed. Mr. Cockburn stated, that the object of those for whom he appeared, in proceeding further, was to prove acts of bribery, with a view to the matter being thoroughly investigated hereafter. After a discussion between the committee and counsel, Mr. Cockburn stated, that after the suggestion of the committee, he woutd conclude the evidence
104 informed the House that the noble Lord who had just sat down had led the House, no doubt unintentionally, into an error respecting the proceedings before the committee. He would read from the minutes what the proceedings of that committee were:—
104"The committee-room was cleared, after some time the counsel and parties were again called in, and informed, that in consequence of the communication which was made to the committee yesterday by Mr. Austen, the committee had come to the following resolution:— 'That Henry Clive, Esq., by his agents, was guilty of treating at the last election for the borough of Ludlow;' and the chairman added that he was directed by the committee to ask the parties whether, the committee having come to that resolution, it was their wish to proceed. Mr. Cockburn stated, that the object of those for whom he appeared, in proceeding further, was to prove acts of bribery, with a view to the matter being thoroughly investigated hereafter. After a discussion between the committee and counsel, Mr. Cockburn stated, that after the suggestion of the committee, he woutd conclude the evidence
104Mr. Goring
117 wished to say, that though he should vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury, he yet agreed with the observations of his hon. Friends the Members for Bridport and Kilkenny. He did not think that either Mr. Stockdale or Mr. Howard had any peculiar claim upon the indulgence of the House; still he was of opinion that it would be much better to have all the matters connected with the privilege question finally disposed of. The House having now obtained the means of enforcing this portion of their privileges, he thought it would
117Mr. Labouchere
 did not object to the release of these persons, but he consented to their release for a very different reason from that assigned by his hon. Friend. His hon. Friend thought that their punishment was unjust. He was of opinion that their punishment was very just. But as Parliament had now placed it out of the power of these individuals, or of any other individuals, to commit a similar offence, by the passing of an Act of Parliament to authorize the publication of Parliamentary Papers he considered the punishment of these persons was no longer necessary. The object of all punishment was to deter men from the commission of offences; if, then, the law deprived parties of the power to commit a certain offence, punishment was not necessary. It was upon that principle alone, and not because he considered these parties had been sufficiently or unjustly punished that he assented to the motion.Mr. Warburton
102101primâ facie said, that he differed from the opinion which had been expressed by the right hon. Baronet opposite, that there had not been a sufficient case made out for sending this case for inquiry before a select committee. The hon. Member for West Somersetshire (Mr. Sanford) had explained very clearly the reasons why he thought that it should not he sent to such an inquiry. He (Mr. Warburton) begged leave, however, to remind the House that Mr. Cockburn, in his opening speech, had stated that he was prepared to open and prove against Mr. Clive himself one of the most aggravated cases of wholesale corruption that had ever been brought within his knowledge, and that he had afterwards opened ten different cases of corruption. As soon as the first of those ten eases was established, the members of the committee thought, that as they had before them one case on which they could convict, it was not part of their duty to proceed into the investigation of the other nine cases opened to them, and therefore their labours were terminated, as he thought, very prematurely. Now, as one case of corruption had been distinctly made out, and as counsel had stated, that he could make out nine others, he wanted to know whether the House would stop where it then was, and, on the mere allegation that no extensive bribery had been established, would refuse to inquire into those nine cases! He contended that on such a 102101primâ facieMr. Warburton
93 rose to second the amendment. The noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies had, in his opinion, made out a complete case to justify the appointment of a select committee. He was satisfied that every person in that House who had heard the noble Lord describe the scenes which had taken place at Ludlow, or who had read the evidence taken before the committee, fully expected that the noble Lord would have concluded his observations with proposing the appointment of a committee of inquiry. The noble Lord had admitted, that the Ludlow committee had stopped short in the investigation, and yet the noble Lord had said, that he would not oppose the issuing of a new writ. For what purpose had the noble Lord described those scenes of drunkenness and quoted those precedents
93Mr. Hume
116 said, that for the reasons assigned by his hon. Friend the Member for Bridport, and seeing that the Government were not opposed to the proposition, he was of opinion that the House ought not any
116Mr. Hume
 rose to move for the discharge of John Joseph Stockdale and Thomas Burton Howard from the custody of the gaoler of Newgate, to whom they had been committed for a breach of the privileges of the House of Commons. As the House had been so very lenient towards the parties whose names had been brought before the House this evening, he hoped it would be equally lenient to the two individuals who must have been sufficiently punished for the offence they had committed. He wished to state, in asking the House to discharge Mr. Stockdale and Mr. Howard, that he did not do it at all for the sake of the individuals themselves, but because he entertained the opinion that the law had been violated in their persons, and that they had been treated unjustly. But he did not wish to enter into any topics which might create a debate, and having heard the opinions of several hon. Members around him upon this question, he had every reason to believe, that no opposition would be made to his motion. If any should be offered, he was ready to state the reasons which he thought ought to induce the House to discharge these individuals. The hon. Gentleman concluded by submitting his motion to the House.Mr. Thomas Duncombe
"Whom did you last see in the chair?—I cannot recollect, because when one tumbles down, we always put another in." Were you so drunk that you could not see?—No, I was pretty fresh."Tax your recollection whether you did not see Mr. William Lloyd in the chair that night? —I will not say whether he was or was not."You have no doubt about it?—Not the least."And a good Cliveite?—I should think so."He is an attorney?—Yes."Do you know Mr. William Lloyd?—Yes, very well."I mean on the 18th?—I forget who was what we call the chairman."Were you in the chair?—Sometimes."I should think, by the look of you, you made a speech? — Yes, and sung my song too."Your liquor is good; did you see any drunk?—Yes, a good many; I got drunk myself for one."That happened a good many times, did it not?—Yes, I should think it did.109"When a bottle was empty, what happened? —We filled it again."You were in the room; did you see the Cliveites help themselves freely?—Yes; there was more drinking going on, I know, than eating."When you say eating out, you mean in the house?—Yes,''You will be bound there was?—I think there was: I will not swear there was any eating, but I think there was."Eating at the bar, and so on?—Yes."Anything to eat?—I dare say there was but I do not recollect that there was any eating in that room; there was eating out, if they chose to go, I will be bound."And ale?—Ale, tobacco, and cigars."Spirits and wine?—Yes."What was there to drink?—Anything as they liked to have."You helped to fill the room, did you?— Yes."You were doing your duty as landlord during the time they were there?—I was sitting down, drinking with them."Were they Cliveites?—Yes, almost every one, I should say."Did you know many of the people?—A great many of the people."Was it pretty near or quite full?—Well, I say pretty near."Was the room full?—Yes, pretty near.cries of "Read, read!"108 said it was but just to Mr. Revis to state, that he had that morning received by post a petition from Mr. Revis, with a request that it should be presented before the debate came on. He had not presented it because it referred to the conduct of his hon. Friend, the Member for Berwick, to whom he should be sorry to be guilty of any discourtesy, by presenting it without his knowledge. He had since shown his hon. Friend the petition, and as he had no objection that it should be presented, he would state the substance to the House. The petitioner stated, that he was examined as a witness
"Whom did you last see in the chair?—I cannot recollect, because when one tumbles down, we always put another in." Were you so drunk that you could not see?—No, I was pretty fresh."Tax your recollection whether you did not see Mr. William Lloyd in the chair that night? —I will not say whether he was or was not."You have no doubt about it?—Not the least."And a good Cliveite?—I should think so."He is an attorney?—Yes."Do you know Mr. William Lloyd?—Yes, very well."I mean on the 18th?—I forget who was what we call the chairman."Were you in the chair?—Sometimes."I should think, by the look of you, you made a speech? — Yes, and sung my song too."Your liquor is good; did you see any drunk?—Yes, a good many; I got drunk myself for one."That happened a good many times, did it not?—Yes, I should think it did.109"When a bottle was empty, what happened? —We filled it again."You were in the room; did you see the Cliveites help themselves freely?—Yes; there was more drinking going on, I know, than eating."When you say eating out, you mean in the house?—Yes,''You will be bound there was?—I think there was: I will not swear there was any eating, but I think there was."Eating at the bar, and so on?—Yes."Anything to eat?—I dare say there was but I do not recollect that there was any eating in that room; there was eating out, if they chose to go, I will be bound."And ale?—Ale, tobacco, and cigars."Spirits and wine?—Yes."What was there to drink?—Anything as they liked to have."You helped to fill the room, did you?— Yes."You were doing your duty as landlord during the time they were there?—I was sitting down, drinking with them."Were they Cliveites?—Yes, almost every one, I should say."Did you know many of the people?—A great many of the people."Was it pretty near or quite full?—Well, I say pretty near."Was the room full?—Yes, pretty near.cries of "Read, read!"108Mr. T. Duncombe
 was glad to find, that the conduct of the minority during the last two or three days, had been completely justified by the observations which had fallen from the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies that evening. He was of opinion that, after what had fallen in the course of the present debate from the noble Lord and the right hon. Baronet opposite, it was quite impossible for them to oppose the institution of an inquiry into the system of treating and bribery prevalent at Ludlow. As both parties seemed to agree that the writ should be issued, he would entreat his hon. Friend to withdraw his amendment, and bring on the question of inquiry on another day, as a substantive motion. At present his hon. Friend would have no chance of carrying his amendment, and the proposition for inquiry by a select committee would not have a fair chance.Mr. Wakley
105 explained, that if a motion for inquiry should be made on a future day, he should judge for himself as to the expediency of agreeing to it, without con-
105Sir R. Peel
9897bonâ fide96animus.95Sandon:94 had already stated, that during the whole course of these proceedings he had acted from the impression that in this individual case the evidence was not sufficient to justify the suspension of the writ. He did not agree with the noble Lord opposite that this one case was sufficient to call for a general measure. He thought the rule which was applicable to the present case ought not to be the rule in every case. He was of opinion that every case of this nature which came before them must depend upon its own merits, and that it was impossible to frame a general rule which would be equally applicable to all. He had on former occasions voted for the suspension of writs and for committees of inquiry, but it should not be forgotten that a select committee was far less satisfactory in investigations of this description than an election committee. The powers of a select committee were less, and the opportunities of ascertaining the truth were greater, before an election committee than a select committee. Before a select committee, when the inquiry was into the general delinquency of the elective body, and when the result was likely to lead to the disfranchisement of the borough, it was often found that there was a strong unwillingness on the part of the witnesses to give evidence against the parties implicated, and with the limited powers of such a body there was no means in such cases of fully ascertaining the truth. A select committee could not examine upon oath, while an election committee had that
9897bonâ fide96animus.95Sandon:94Sir R. Peel
 would ask further, whether the import trade between India and Persia was still open, and subject to consular protection?Sir S. Canning
75 wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary of Slate for Foreign Affairs, some questions respecting our relations with Persia. It was not necessary for him to preface his questions with any remarks, as the questions were sufficiently minute; but he begged to say, that it was a subject of great importance to our commercial interests, and was rendered more important by the doubtful stale of our relations with foreign powers. The questions which he would ask were—What was the present character of our relations with the court of Persia? Supposing our friendly relations with that court to be suspended, what were the negotiations, if any, that were going on for a restoration of those friendly relations? Whether there was any difficulty; and if any, what difficulty that retarded the progress of those negotiations; and had they arisen since the gracious intimation conveyed in her Majesty's speech from the throne, that there was a prospect of a speedy renewal of our relations? And, lastly, whether an early removal of those difficulties was contemplated by her Majesty's Government? The noble Lord could answer these questions first,
75Sir Stratford Canning
 could reply to the questions very shortly. The present state of our relations with the court of Persia was exactly the same as it was last year. The state of our relations was precisely this. The right hon. Gentleman and the House knew that last summer a special envoy came here from the court of Persia. The Government did not think it right to enter into any negotiations with the envoy, but a memorandum was sent by him (Viscount Palmerston) to that person, distinctly stating the demands of the Government. To that memorandum he had received a reply on the 26th of December, which was not perfectly satisfactory, as be had already staled to the House. In general terms the demands of the Government were acceded to; but the reply then went into details as to the manner in which the demands were to be executed, and on one or two points of the details as to the execution, did not correspond with the demands of the Government. It then became his duty to send a reply. That reply was forwarded on the 18th January, and would have been received in Persia in the month of March; but he had not as yet received any answer. The hon. Gentleman would therefore see that negotiations were in progress to bring about an adjustment of the differences between the two countries. Nothing had happened since the delivery of her Majesty's most gracious speech to diminish the hope of the Government, as expressed in the speech from the Throne, as to the chance of an amicable settlement, because the last communication from the court of Persia went to the extent of stating generally a desire to comply with our demands. He might answer at the same time another question which the right hon. Gentleman intended to put, and say that our mission at Erzeroom was ready to return to Persia as soon as the negotiations had been completed.Viscount Palmerston
attachés said, that we had still a consulate officer at Teflis, and he was not aware of any interruption of the trade. The attachésViscount Palmerston
 said, that Mr. M'Neill was still employed by the Government; but he was now away on a leave of absence which he obtained last year.Viscount Palmerston
103 rose for the purpose of correcting an erroneous impression which had got abroad respecting the conduct of his committee. It seemed to be understood in the House that the committee had closed the investigation with an intimation to counsel that they need not carry it further, as sufficient had been proved to vacate the seat. Now, no such fact had taken place. On one side there was only one case of bribery alleged—on the other there were ten cases alleged. The committee had examined into five of those cases, and had never hinted its opinion upon one of them to counsel until they had closed their case. So far from it, the committee pursued its investigations for some time after Mr. Clive had announced his intention to retire from the contest. He did not think that hon. Members opposite had a right to taunt hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House with being the abettors of bribery and corruption,
103Viscount Sandon
 begged to know whether the hon. Member himself, in the committee, expressed confidence in Mr. Revis's statements?Lord Sandon
 said that, before putting this resolution, he begged to submit to the committee whether it was possible in a committee of ways and means to put an amendment which involved an entirely new subject of taxation.The Chairman
 contended that the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, was peculiarly unfair to the landed interest, which was exposed to more heavy public burdens than any other interest in the community. He considered that the Chancellor of the Exchequer's plan of raising money was far more beneficial than that proposed by the hon. Member for Kilkenny.Sir R. Price
 protested against throwing on the shoulders of the people, in the present depressed state of commerce, a large additional amount of taxation.Mr. Turner
 would agree to the proposal of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down to put personal and real property on the same footing with regard to the legacy duty, when he should see personal property assessed to poor rates, county-rates, and other rates. He thought real property was already much more heavily taxed than personal property. He agreed fully with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was the imperative duty of this country to meet its financial difficulties.Lord Ingestrie
d. objected to the proposed alteration in the spirit duties; said 4d.Captain Jones
 also opposed the tax, as one which would fall exclusively on the poor.General Johnson
 said, that if such an objection were made to his amendment, he must, of course, abandon it; but nevertheless, he should still remain convinced of its justice.Mr. Langdale
 thought that the amendment of the hon. Member for Kilkenny did not go far enough. It should also affect the transfer of money in the funds. He never could understand why there should not be a stamp on every transfer of funded property. He should vote for the amendment now proposed; but he would add as an amendment upon it, "That the same stamps should be required for the transfer of personal property vested in the funds as are now required for the conveyance of property in land."Mr. Langdale
non con-stat142 declared it to be his opinion that Mr. Bernal had laid down the right rule. This resolution could not be proposed by the hon. Member for Kilkenny in a committee of ways and means. The House was then in a committee to consider the ways and means of raising supplies for Her Majesty, His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had proposed one mode, which came under the proper designation of ways and means. It might be a question whether another Member,
non con-stat142Lord J. Russell
168l.l.l.l.l.167166 said, that the proposition which had been made by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had been so fairly met by the House, and the general tone of the House seemed so much in favour of it, that he would not occupy their time by many observations. He wished, however, to say a word or two on one or two points which had been under discussion; but first he would observe, that the right hon. Gentleman opposite had said, that he agreed to the general principle of the proposition of his right hon. Friend, namely, that it was now time that they should meet the present deficiency in the revenue by taxation, and not by having recourse to loans. And secondly, that with regard to taxation, it was more advisable on the whole, for the sake of not increasing the present revenue establishment, and of not checking industry, to increase the existing duties rather than impose new ones. He trusted that his right hon. Friend would be contented with the support his proposition had received, and not endeavour to conciliate those who, on different sides, had made different propositions on behalf of different interests, no doubt with a very
168l.l.l.l.l.167166Lord J. Russell
 was understood to say he would not oppose any tax by which the present ministry would render themselves more unpopular.Colonel Sibthorp
l.l. attributed the deficiency of the revenue to the misapplication of the funds by Government, as there was no deficiency in the Customs and Excise. He found that the expense of commissions amounted to no less than 119,000l.l.Colonel Sibthorp
170l. could not help feeling glad that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had directed the attention of the House to the question which he had brought forward, because one branch of the question, which to him it appeared most important to consider, was the source from which our revenue was derived, and the mode of levying the taxes, for one hon. Member said, there should be an increase of taxation, whilst another holding out a probable deficiency of 900,000170l.Mr. C. Villiers
 thought it more than a pledge, for in the statute 4 William 4th, it was expressly stated, that any party should build his house as he thought fit, having above a certain number of windows, and not be subjected to any additional duty; and that any house having only seven windows should not be subjected to any duty at all for opening any number more.Mr. Finch
l.l.l.s.l.l.l., in pursuance of the notice he had given, to put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, relative to the million fund applicable to the arrears of tithe due to the Irish clergy. That sum had been granted in 1833 by what was commonly called the million act, and about 640,000l.l.l.s.l.l.l.Mr. Shaw rose
 considered the cheapest mode of carrying on the business of the country to be, by having the revenue greater than the expenditure. He regretted that the Post-office had been altered to so large an extent, and would have been glad if a twopenny rate had been proposed instead of the lower rate of a penny. It would be better, in his opinion, if the duty on raw cotton were not put on; and with respect to the further duty on hops, which was now proposed, he would observe, that the county of Sussex stood in a peculiar position in regard to that at tide; for, although the hops grown there were inferior to the hops which were grown in some other parts of the country, yet they paid the same rate of duty, and which was already too much for the growers to pay.Mr. Darby
l.169 should certainly support the proposition of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, believing, as he did, that it would be the most legal and least burdensome mode of raising a part of that deficiency which they were now called upon to supply; but considering, as he did, that it would be rejected by a very large majority, he would not trouble the House with any remarks on the subject. He wished, however, to make one observation on the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was in reference to the proposed per centage in addition to the existing customs' duty; and he would submit to the right hon. Gentleman whether this was not a fitting occasion for him to consider one tax which he believed was in substance an addition to the existing customs' duty, and which in the form in which it was now laid down was most inconvenient to the mercantile interests, and produced a great degree of dissatisfaction—he alluded to the stamp duty on policies of marine insurance. That duty obliged many persons to make their insurances in foreign ports and in the colonies, and also gave an additional advantage to foreign shipowners in preference to our own, as well as to great shipowners, who made their ships insure one another, and did away altogether-with other insurance, over the small ship owner, who was obliged to insure his vessels. This duty, although in the form of the process of insurance, was practically and in effect to increase the price of goods imported into England, and was therefore tantamount to an increase on the duty on goods imported. The right hon. Gentleman might, therefore, consider now whether, if he were going to increase the Custom-house duties at all, he might not by a slight rise in them dispense with the duties on the policies of marine in-
l.169Mr. Grote
171 said, that if the taxation of the country as at present existing, bore equally upon all classes of the community, he (Mr. Muntz) would be the last man to object to the principle upon which the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had announced his intention to proceed, for it was an excellent principle, inasmuch as it did not require new machinery. Still, however, if ever there was a time when the working classes could worse bear the burden of taxation, that time was the present. He, therefore, thought the Legislature would have done better to have put on a property-tax to meet the existing deficiency, instead of increasing those taxes which he contended the people were not able to bear. The privations of the working classes ware severe at present; they were likely to increase, and he therefore should support
171Mr. Muntz
151d.150l.l.l.l.149l.148147l.l.146145 said, whatever wisdom
151d.150l.l.l.l.149l.148147l.l.146145Mr. Goulburn
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.155l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.154153152 entirely agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that it was the duty of those who studied the interest and honour of the country to look at its financial condition, and, though considerable difference of opinion might exist as to the measures which would be expedient in order to reduce the charge on the finances of the country, at the same time there was no Gentleman in the House who would assert that it was not the bounden duty of the House to look at the state of our finances, in order to place them in a situation in which the finances of this country ought to be placed. He thought that the disposition which had been expressed by
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.155l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.154153152Mr. Labouchere
d.d.s.s.s.156 had expressed on a former occasion his hope that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would manfully face the difficulties of our financial position, but instead of doing that, he had produced a budget founded on the principle of courting as little opposition as possible, so that it might pass easily through the House. For his own part he could not approve of the plan of the right hon. Gentleman, when he recollected that the addition to the assessed taxes would not affect Ireland at all, and he did not think that this was a proper principle of taxation. He wished also to advert to the indiscriminate addition of five per cent, to articles of customs and excise. It had been said that tobacco was taxed at the rate of 1,200 per cent., and therefore there was no reason why five per cent, more should not be added. If that were any argument at all, it might be carried much further. He agreed, however, with the hon. Member for Wigan in thinking, that, in this great department of the revenue, the taxes imposed upon coffee, tea, tobacco, and other articles, should be revised, and that a trial should be made whether an alteration in the amount of the duty would not produce a larger revenue. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had said, that the duty laid on foreign corn was not imposed for the sake of revenue, but for the purpose of giving protection to the home grower, and that therefore an additional duty of 5 per cent, had not been proposed to be laid upon that article. But corn was not the only article on which a duty was levied for, the purpose of giving protection. He
d.d.s.s.s.156Mr. Warburton
l.l.163 said, that nothing could
l.l.163Mr. Warburton
165l. concurred with those who thought that there ought to be an increase of taxes—nay, it appeared to him there were several articles very inadequately taxed. He thought that enough, of taxes should be imposed to leave fair grounds for expecting that there would be sufficient to meet the whole expenditure of the country. There were those, and men of some authority too, who thought that the income of the country should be placed upon such a footing as would leave just grounds for expecting a surplus of at least 5,000,000165l.Mr. Briscoe
 reminded the committee, that Lord Spencer, when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer, had made a proposition similar to that of the hon. Member for Knaresborough; but that he had abandoned it on subsequently referring to the Loan Acts, where the stipulation was found to be so clear as not to admit of a shadow of doubt.Mr. Briscoe
 stated, that to obviate the objection made to his amendment in point of form, he would alter the words of it. He would propose that from and after the 15th of May a tax be imposed on the descent of real property, varying in amount from 1 to 10 per cent, according to the scale now levied on the descent of personal property. He considered it a great grievance to be compelled to propose a tax, but he saw a disposition in the committee to support the taxes proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he therefore felt compelled to propose another and more equal tax as a substitute for them.Mr. Hume
143l.l. reminded the committee that we had been going on borrowing for the last fifty years, and that a clause had been inserted in every Act sanctioning a loan, pledging the public faith to the public creditor, that no stamp should ever be imposed on transfers in the funds. The hon. Member was not, perhaps, aware that if he had money in the funds, and bequeathed 10,000143l.l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.172l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l. had heard a great deal from the right hon. Baronet opposite on every feature of this question, but not one word as to economy. But he would put it to the right hon. Baronet, whether the better way to support the public credit was not to reduce the expenditure than to impose new taxes. It was true there was a deficiency, which it was proposed to meet, but would it not be better to impose whatever burdens should be necessary on landed property? He had seen this day an address from the Society for the Protection of Agriculture, dated May, 1840, and signed "T. T. Bernard." From this document he would show the proportions of taxation levied on real and personal property. The amount of personal property liable to this tax was, in this kingdom, 42,000,000l.l.l.172l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer did mean to raise a certain additional amount of taxation, to be derived from the window tax.Mr. Hume
 said, if the Chairman were right, the resolution would point out some particular way in which the supply was to be raised; whereas the terms of the resolution are general. In what committee could his resolution be moved, if not in the present. The Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed one mode of raising money, and he proposed another: and he maintained that he was perfectly in order in proposing his amendment.Mr. Hume
141l.l.l.s.l.140l.l.l.Interruption.139l.l.l.l.138l.l.l.l.l. then rose and said, that he felt his duty to bear his testimony to the clear and able mannner in which the right hon. Gentleman had laid his financial statement before the House. It had been his lot to hear many statements of this kind, and he would not compliment the right hon. Gentleman further than by saying, that he had never heard a more clear, simple, and intelligible financial statement in his life. While, however, he bore his testimony to the able manner in which the right hon. Gentleman had laid the state of the finances before the House, he could not but regret extremely, the necessity which there appeared to be of laying additional taxes upon the country, when a great pressure of taxation already existed. He much regretted that necessity, and he could not agree in the proposals which the right hon. Gentleman had made, as to the mode in which the money was be levied. The House would see that the necessity for this increased taxation arose from the people themselves, who had not sent representatives into that House who would give their attention to the expenditure of the country. Night after night, when the estimates were under consideration, the benches were empty, and whatever vote of the public money might be under discussion, never was there more than one-fifth of the Members present. As far as the revenue was concerned, so far from their being a falling of, the House would find, that in 1836 the amount of revenue was 46,270,000141l.l.l.s.l.140l.l.l.Interruption.139l.l.l.l.138l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, that Lord Althorp had pledged himself when Chancellor of the Exchequer, that no increase should take place in the window taxes, and it would be extremely inconvenient if an extra charge should be now laid on. He thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer should exempt windows from an increased charge after the solemn pledge made by his predecessor.Mr. Hume
 would first support the motion of his hon. Friend to the right, and if that should not be successful he would then support the motion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to make good the deficiency in the revenue according to the pledge to which he was last year a party.Mr. Wallace
144 considered that justice required that they should support the amendment "of his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny. The favour shown to the landed interest, which arose from its having a monopoly of power in one House and a predominance of power in the other House of Parliament, was at the root of most of the evils which at that moment were pressing upon the country. He hoped that the landed interest would consent to salutary reforms in time, as it was evident that this country was rapidly changing its character from a great agricultural to a great commercial community. A division on the proposition would afford a test to ascertain who were the real friends of the people in that House. To the clearness and ability of the statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer he bore willing testimony, but he could not say much for the soundness of the principles on which the right hon. Gentleman proceeded. It was not reasonable to add to to the taxes of the country till measures were taken to extend its trade, and the surest and most effectual way to do that, would be to reform the present iniquitous and oppressive corn laws. An alteration of those laws would not only lead to an extension of our manufactures, but might even be made subsidiary to revenue, by the imposition of a moderate fixed duty.
144Mr. Ewart
 contended that his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny was perfectly in order. The object of going into a committee of ways and means was to consider of the best way of meeting the exigiencies of the state; and therefore it was competent for his hon. Friend to make his proposition at present.Mr. Ewart
164 said, he should have been well pleased had a proposition been made for imposing a property-tax, for in his judgment, nothing could be more fair than that the fundholder should pay for the protection which he enjoyed under the institutions of this country, and should be made to contribute to the support of that system, from the stability of which he derived so much advantage. He sincerely hoped that some opportunity would be given to hon. Members, of testing the declarations which they so often made with respect to their wishes for the relief of the people from the pressure of financial burthens. There was one matter which he could not help noticing with a strong feeling of regret, and that was, that no reduction had been proposed in the duty on post-horses. He thought that the whole of the duty ought to be taken off carriages let for hire. Considering the quantity of travelling which took place in this country
164Mr. Gillon
l.l.l.173 was glad to hear that statement from the hon. Member for Greenock, and trusted it would be acted upon by other hon. Members who had called for a reduction in postage. In the few observations he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had now to make, he should best consult the convenience of the committee if he confined himself to the particular motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, who had taken upon himself the unenviable task of proposing the imposition of new taxation. His hon. Friend said, that instead of taking the taxes as he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) proposed, the Government ought to have moved a
l.l.l.173The Chancellor of the Exchequer
178 said, if a person liable to the window duty had never paid any charge whatever, it was
178The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, with regard to the survey, he wished to propose no new duty, he wished for no additional power whatever, he broke no clause of the act of Parliament. He only stated this, if persons did not pay what they were liable to pay, he should request them to do so. He only wished them to do that by a general survey.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
d." That towards raising a supply for the use of her Majesty, from and after the 15th day of May, 1840, an additional duty, after the rate of 5 per cent., be laid upon the produce and amount of all duties or customs, of what kind soever, now due and payable to the Commissioners of Customs and Excise, except, in the Excise, of those duties the produce of spirits or strong waters of all kinds whatsoever; and, in the Customs, of the duties levied on corn, grain, meal, or flour. And that from and after the said 15th day of May, 1840, an additional duty of 4d.137136l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.135l.l.l.l.l.l.l.d.l.134l.133d.132131l.l.l.l.l.130l.s.l.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.129l.128l.l.l.l.l.l.127l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.126l.l.l.l.l.l.125l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.124l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.123l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.122 said, that in laying before the Committee the financial statement which it was his duty to make, he proposed to follow that course which not only had been usually adopted on such occasions, but which the nature of the subject, independent of custom, naturally dictated. He proposed first to state to the Committee the amount of income and expenditure of the past year, then to lay before it his estimate of the income and expenditure for the current year, and to detail the expectations which he entertained as to the prospect of the revenue as it now stood, and having compared the estimate of expenditure with the estimate of income, it would then be
d." That towards raising a supply for the use of her Majesty, from and after the 15th day of May, 1840, an additional duty, after the rate of 5 per cent., be laid upon the produce and amount of all duties or customs, of what kind soever, now due and payable to the Commissioners of Customs and Excise, except, in the Excise, of those duties the produce of spirits or strong waters of all kinds whatsoever; and, in the Customs, of the duties levied on corn, grain, meal, or flour. And that from and after the said 15th day of May, 1840, an additional duty of 4d.137136l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.135l.l.l.l.l.l.l.d.l.134l.133d.132131l.l.l.l.l.130l.s.l.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.129l.128l.l.l.l.l.l.127l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.126l.l.l.l.l.l.125l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.124l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.123l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.122The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.l.l.l. regretted much that the right hon. Gentleman had not taken the bolder course of at once proposing, that the revenue should be recruited by the obvious mode of increasing the taxation. To him it certainly appeared that the right hon. Gentleman had very much overestimated the income, and very much under-estimated the expenditure; but, without now discussing that question in detail, he wished to call attention to a point that seemed to him of some importance. It appeared from the accounts laid before Parliament, that the naval expenditure of the last year amounted to 5,472,000l.l.l.l.l.l.Sir G. Clerk
l.162l.161Chancellor of the Exchequer:l.l.Chancellor of the Exchequer:l.l.l.l.l.160159l.l.l.l.l.158l.l.l.l.l.l.17,100,000l.1840
l.17,100,000l.1840l.16,452,000l.1839
l.16,452,000l.1839l.15,392,000l.1838
l.15,392,000l.1838l.14,400,000l.1837
l.14,400,000l.1837l.14,000,000l.In 1836
l.14,000,000l.In 1836
l.17,100,000l.1840
l.17,100,000l.1840l.16,452,000l.1839
l.16,452,000l.1839l.15,392,000l.1838
l.15,392,000l.1838l.14,400,000l.1837
l.14,400,000l.1837l.14,000,000l.In 1836
l.14,000,000l.In 1836l.157 thought it very evident that the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Bridport, had not a very exalted notion of the patriotism of a reformed House of Commons, for he said that the right hon. Gentleman had proposed his budget rather with the object of its meeting the views of the House of Commons than of promoting the welfare of the country. This, then, was the end of all the hon. Gentleman's efforts for the reformation of the House of Commons. So little, in his opinion, did the House represent the feelings of the country, that he charged the Chancellor of the Exchequer with the offence of making his budget palatable to the House of Commons, thereby implying that there was a great difference of opinion between the House and the country. He (Sir R. Peel), however, thought that the great question involved in the discussion of tonight was this—should they resort to the miserable expedient of incurring a fresh debt to make good the present deficiency or should they make some effort to equalize the income and the expenditure of the country? Now, without entering into details, he must say that he was in favour of the principle of the right Gentleman's plan. He thought that nothing could be more disparaging, after the proof which they had obtained that the deficiency in the revenue was not merely temporary, than to try to shift from ourselves the burthens which properly belonged to us, after twenty-five years of general peace, and refuse to make some effort at least to equalize our income and expenditure. If, therefore, a vote of credit had been proposed for the purpose of meeting the present deficiency, whether such a step had been unpopular or not, he should certainly have opposed the motion, and he thought that the right hon. Gentleman had done right in proposing additional taxation. With respect to the mode of raising the taxes, he confessed he thought, upon the whole, that a slight increase of taxation, without imposing any perfectly novel tax, was the
l.162l.161Chancellor of the Exchequer:l.l.Chancellor of the Exchequer:l.l.l.l.l.160159l.l.l.l.l.158l.l.l.l.l.l.17,100,000l.1840
l.17,100,000l.1840l.16,452,000l.1839
l.16,452,000l.1839l.15,392,000l.1838
l.15,392,000l.1838l.14,400,000l.1837
l.14,400,000l.1837l.14,000,000l.In 1836
l.14,000,000l.In 1836
l.17,100,000l.1840
l.17,100,000l.1840l.16,452,000l.1839
l.16,452,000l.1839l.15,392,000l.1838
l.15,392,000l.1838l.14,400,000l.1837
l.14,400,000l.1837l.14,000,000l.In 1836
l.14,000,000l.In 1836l.157Sir R. Peel
d.l.176d. said, that if, as the right hon. Gentleman had stated, his proposition of adding 4d.l.176d.Sir R. Peel
 did not complain of the notice which the hon. Member had taken of his observations. He wished, however, that the hon. Member had quoted these observations correctly. He had not imputed to the Corn-laws the means of enabling the Government to collect large revenues, and, therefore, he advised them to adhere to the Coin-laws. What he had said was this—the light hon. the President of the Board of Trade, inquired what had been done in respect of the remission of taxation since 1830. The right hon. Gentleman stated he could show, from the amount of customs and excise, there had been a great reduction of taxation, but such was the elasticity and buoyancy of the commerce of the country, that notwithstanding the remission of taxation, there had been a great and constant increase in the revenue. He (Sir R. Peel) had then observed that this extension and buoyancy of commerce had taken place concurrently with the existing system of Corn-laws; that it was difficult to assign a precise cause of national prosperity, and he did not push the argument further than to urge this fact as evidence, that the increase of commercial and manufacturing property had been acquired concurrently with the existing Corn-laws, and he had suggested as matter for consideration, whether the removal of those laws might not be productive of a reduction in that prosperity.Sir R. Peel
l.l.l.l.l.121 said, the right hon. and learned Gentleman had stated most
l.l.l.l.l.121Viscount Morpeth
188l.187186185l.l.Drogheda Journal,184Cheers.183l.182bona fidel.l.l.181l.l.l.prima facie180 rose to oppose the motion. He said, that in rising to move that the House should go into Committee that day six months, he addressed the House with more than ordinary diffidence, because he believed that this was the most important occasion on which he had ever presented himself to the notice of the House; but he trusted that the vast importance, the mighty interests that were at stake, and the inevitable consequences which he conscientiously believed would follow the adoption of the bill of the noble Lord, would obtain for him the indulgence of the House while he endeavoured to state the reasons which had induced him to undertake the task which he was just commencing. He thought that it would be necessary, if the House would allow him, more particularly as he knew that much misapprehension existed on this subject, to oppose the idea which seemed to exist, that the constituency of Ireland was a mass of confusion, and that the voice of persons possessed of property, intelligence, and respectability was altogether over-borne. He begged the attention of the House to what the real facts were, and he thought that he should be able in a few words to strike the balance between the population and constituencies of Ireland and England. In England the rural population was 8,500,000; the constituency 344,000. The rural population of Ireland was upwards of 7,000,000; the constituency not 60,000. That was remarkable; but it was not enough for his purpose.
188l.187186185l.l.Drogheda Journal,184Cheers.183l.182bona fidel.l.l.181l.l.l.prima facie180Sir W. Somerville
189l seconded the motion. The bill of the noble Lord was impolitic, unwise, and unjust, and its effects would be to annul the Emancipation Act of 1829, by destroying the 10189lMr. J. Grattan
194"Thus repealing for Ireland not only the Reform Act directly, but, by inevitable consequence, the Emancipation Act; and that, under the peculiar manner in which that active and able enemy of Ireland has taken up the subject, it is imperatively necessary that all the Liberal portion of Ireland should, without any delay, rouse itself into legal and constitutional opposition, and prepare and
194Cheers." Resolved—That it is now admitted, even by Lord Stanley himself, that the object of his bill is the profligate one of destroying the franchise in Ireland, and placing the representation in the hands of the landlords."193dictum.192bonâ fide191190 said, that neither the hon. Baronet, nor the hon. Member who had followed him, had adverted to one single objection to the present system of Irish registrations. There were questions connected with that system which it was a disgrace to the House to leave unsettled—questions, the non-settlement pf which was alike injurious to the constituency, and to the representation pf Ireland. One of the most prominent of them was, the opening of registers in Ireland. On this subject, twelve Committees of that House had decided on opening the registry, and seven committees had arrived at an opposite conclusion. Now, without discussing the propriety pf either decision, suppose the registry were not to be opened, what was the consequence? A vote once placed upon the registry, whether through fraud or mistake, must continue on it for the period of eight years (and by renewal might continue for life) without the
194"Thus repealing for Ireland not only the Reform Act directly, but, by inevitable consequence, the Emancipation Act; and that, under the peculiar manner in which that active and able enemy of Ireland has taken up the subject, it is imperatively necessary that all the Liberal portion of Ireland should, without any delay, rouse itself into legal and constitutional opposition, and prepare and
194Cheers." Resolved—That it is now admitted, even by Lord Stanley himself, that the object of his bill is the profligate one of destroying the franchise in Ireland, and placing the representation in the hands of the landlords."193dictum.192bonâ fide191190Mr. Lefroy
195A voices.s. was surprised that the hon. Member should have called upon the House to reject all the petitions against the hill because the hon. Member for Dublin had made a speech. He had presented eighteen petitions, with which that hon. and learned Gentleman had nothing whatever to do. The hon. Gentleman called for the rejection of all petitions against he hill; but were the great meetings in Munster, Connaught, and Leinster to go for nothing because the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had made a speech? He maintained, notwithstanding the denial of the other side of the House, that the bill before them was a landlord's bill—that it disfranchised the people—and that it gave the power over elections to landlords—Tory landlords. They had bred up 40195A voices.s.Lord Clements
197196l.s.l. observed, that as the noble Lord had said the franchise in Ireland should be extended, he ought, in pursuance of his views, to bring up a clause to make it 5197196l.s.l.Sir R. Bateson
Stanley198 would not accept the boon offered in this bill at the price asked for it, which was the disfranchisement of Ireland. He did not defend the present state of the law, but he opposed this bill, which increased all the evils of the present registration system. Under the present system, there were differences between the assistant-barristers, and differences between them and the judges; but the trouble and expense would be increased by this bill, and would occur twice a year throughout the whole electoral body. He called this an electoral agitation of a most exciting character. In addition to the agitation which had prevailed in Ireland for so many years, they were to have, under this bill, this exciting agitation attending the registration. Let him address the landlords of Ireland on the other side, and ask whether it were desirable for their interests, for the security of their estates, and the reception of their rents, that this bill should pass, and this yearly agitation be introduced. The Reform Bill would never work properly till there was a compulsory registration. If he was asked to pass a bill of registration, he should ask what is the franchise? Till the franchise was defined, he would not consent to a bill of registration. The noble Lord would say, he could not mix them up together. But in his bill of 1832 they were mixed up. The measure seemed founded on a supposition that a claimant tendering himself to the registry was asking a favour; whereas he was only claiming to exercise a duty cast upon him by the public.
Stanley198Mr. Lynch
202201"When Crown cases are reserved" (and it should be recollected that reserved Crown cases and election cases were exactly similar) "I have no difficulty in stating, that each of us does hold himself so bound, whether or not his own opinion agree with that of the majority, or whether or not the case may have been argued by counsel."200l.l.l. said, there could not be a more mischievous code of election law than that which was now in operation in Ireland, and the necessity for a reform of that law was pressing and imperative. As yet, nothing had been advanced against the principle of the bill which the noble Lord had introduced to effect that desirable object; on the contrary, much had been admitted which went to show that the principle of the bill was right; that a great evil existed; and that a remedy of some kind ought to be applied. Much had been objected to the details of the bill, but that course of opposition would be more correctly taken in Committee. The hon. Member for Galway, as a lawyer, a landlord, and an Irish voter, had been obliged to admit that bribery existed, that immorality was increased by the temptation to perjury which was held out, that fictitious votes were daily received, and that they remained on the registers. But the hon. Member said he would not agree to pass the bill, because it did not define the franchise, which was already and altogether denned. A difference of opinion having arisen upon the construction of the 10th of George 4th, and the 2nd and 3rd of William 4th, at the spring assizes of 1837, the judges were called upon to decide what kind of interest a county voter should have in property to qualify him; whether it should be on his own swearing to the amount of 10202201"When Crown cases are reserved" (and it should be recollected that reserved Crown cases and election cases were exactly similar) "I have no difficulty in stating, that each of us does hold himself so bound, whether or not his own opinion agree with that of the majority, or whether or not the case may have been argued by counsel."200l.l.l.Mr. Litton
215l.bonâ fide214bonâ fide213212211210209208l.207de circumstuntibus"The bill will provide, I trust, an effectual check upon any possible abuse of power, by giving, in every case, the right of appeal to the freeholder, whether his claim to register be rejected by the assistant-barrister upon the ground of defective title to the freehold, or of its insufficient value. On the question of title, the appeal will be given to the judge of assize. On the question of fact, namely, the amount of value of the freehold, the freeholder will have a right to appeal to a jury."206205204203 said: It has frequently been my fortune to resist in this House motions which, as I contended, had the obvious tendency of unsettling the Reform Act, and disturbing the franchise thereby given; but I must declare that of all the motions which went to unsettle and oppose the principle of the Reform Act, this is the most formidable which I have ever encountered. And, Sir, I say this because I think that, with regard to other propositions, they have had generally this argument in their favour, that they partook of the general spirit of the Reform Bill—that they were in favour of a large and extended franchise, and were meant to secure this object, that the votes which had been given to the people of the United Kingdom should obtain for them a full and fair representation in this House. Therefore, so far as they were invested with this character, there was some excuse and colour for the claim which they put forward to be considered as consonant with the spirit of the Reform Act. But the proposition now before us begins a retrograde course, in order to diminish, restrict, and abridge the franchise of a portion of one part of this United Kingdom; and this shows that hereafter all your endeavours—that hereafter the aim of your legislation will be to take back the franchise which they have obtained at your hands—to make its acquisition more difficult—to consider a man who asks for the franchise as a public enemy, and at first, by slow degrees, but eventually to diminish and destroy those franchises which the Reform Act, as I contend, so liberally bestowed. Sir, it gives me little satisfaction in this alarm that it refers to one portion of the United Kingdom; for I have seen evils connected with the franchise arising on every side, which demanded the aid of legislation, many of which have attracted the attention of Government, as shown by the various measures which they proposed
215l.bonâ fide214bonâ fide213212211210209208l.207de circumstuntibus"The bill will provide, I trust, an effectual check upon any possible abuse of power, by giving, in every case, the right of appeal to the freeholder, whether his claim to register be rejected by the assistant-barrister upon the ground of defective title to the freehold, or of its insufficient value. On the question of title, the appeal will be given to the judge of assize. On the question of fact, namely, the amount of value of the freehold, the freeholder will have a right to appeal to a jury."206205204203Lord J. Russell
bonâfidebonâ fidebonâ fidein toto.231230"To Mr. William Ball,—I hereby give you notice, that I object to your name being retained on the list of voters for the county of—and that you will be required to prove your qualification at the time of the revising the said list."verbatim229verbatim228bona fide227226225bona fide224"He could not help again observing, that unless an annual scrutiny was established, there would exist great facilities for fraud, because when once the certificate was obtained it was to last for eight years, and the production of the certificate would be exclusive evidence of the right to vote; so that a party might die, and yet his certificate might be rendered available; it was impossible to deny that this would lead to false swearing, for a man would only have to swallow an oath in order to get his vote passed; I use the name of John Moran," continued the hon. and learned Member, "because it happened once, when I sat as assessor, that a voter was objected to, and the man produced a certificate granted to one John Moran. I said, 'If you are John Moran, write your name,' and he took up a pen without hesitation and wrote 'Dennis O'Brien.' This is only one instance," continued the hon. and learned Member, "and I could mention many, why it is right to extend to Ireland the system adopted in England. It is said, that this would occasion too much trouble, but that may be avoided; let the certificate be conclusive evidence, unless the contrary is proved: first, let the old list of voters be published, and next the list of persons objected to; this would give all parties an ample opportunity of making themselves acquainted with the grounds of the objection, and would enable them to ascertain whether the qualifications had ceased, and whether or not the persons objected to were living."223HearCheers,"By a subsequent clause," observed the hon. and learned Member, "it was provided that the certificates should stand for eight years; but he contended for annual scrutiny; they could have no solid protection without it; for though John Moran, the voter on the certificate, should die, still, when the polling time came, there would be a John Moran living. In England the scrutiny was annual, as it ought to be in Ireland. At the elections John Moran would be forthcoming, and if they excluded annual scrutiny, the truth could not be detected, that they were not the persons to whom the certificates had been originally granted; it was impossible that this plan could last longer than a year, because in a Reformed Parliament the common sense English plan would be extended to Ireland. He must really suggest that it was better at once to give Ireland an annual scrutiny, and put it on the same footing as England."222221bona fidebona fidebonâ fide220l.s.l."I approve of the plan laid down for the counties, because it affords a prospect of forming a better class of voters of the 10l.s.s.219l."No person shall be registered in any county in Scotland, unless he be resident; borough electors, not resident, must have shops within the burgh; life-rent, other than by inheritance, not a qualification. No person shall vote as a joint tenant, unless he has a particular interest—owners to be infeft. No person entitled to be registered, unless in possession of lands, &c., of the value of 10l.218"That by the Scotch Reform Bill, the Scotch people obtained extended electoral rights, and lost none; 2dly, that by the English Reform Bill, the people of England obtained several
218217 admitted, there was no course more usual in Parliamentary practice, than to suffer a Bill upon its second reading to pass by general consent, and, subsequently, take the discussion on its principle, on the succeeding question, that the Speaker do leave the hair; but it was at least unusual, after a Bill had been the subject of two nights' debate in a very full House—after its principle, notwithstanding the strenuous resistance of a Government, had been asserted by no inconsiderable majority—it was unusual, to say the least of it, again to renew the discussion of the principle of the same measure, and call upon the House to repudiate the decision to which they had come upon a former occasion. But he did not complain of the course which had been taken; he would shrink from no discussion, either of the principle or details of this bill. Least of all, did he complain of the manner or the speech, in which the hon. Member for Drogheda had introduced his opposition to it. It was a steady, straightforward, frank, manly opposition to the bill and the whole bill; it was no endeavour to get off by shuffling it into committees, that were never intended to report, or introducing counter bills which were never intended to be proceeded with. It was an honest, straightforward demand of the House to rescind the resolution to which it had come one little month ago, and leave the evils, great, enormous, unrefuted, undeniable as they were, without a remedy—frankly to tell the people of England and Ireland that they could offer nothing, that they could give no remedy, but the bill which proposed to remedy these abuses, and which, by the confession of hon. Gentlemen opposite—by the confession of the hon. and learned Member for Galway—did remedy these abuses should be rejected without the discussion of its details, and altogether repudiated in principle, because it would be effectual in removing evils, gross, undenied, and undeniable. He thanked the hon. Baronet for the manner in which he had met the present motion, and he rejoiced in the plain broad issue which he had proposed to the House, and the people of England and Ireland. It now, therefore, became necessary for him, having been again drawn into a discussion of the principle of this bill, with as little circumlocution, and also with as little heat as, under the circumstances, was possible, to refer to the leading objections which had been raised against it, and remove them, as far as he could, by fair
bonâfidebonâ fidebonâ fidein toto.231230"To Mr. William Ball,—I hereby give you notice, that I object to your name being retained on the list of voters for the county of—and that you will be required to prove your qualification at the time of the revising the said list."verbatim229verbatim228bona fide227226225bona fide224"He could not help again observing, that unless an annual scrutiny was established, there would exist great facilities for fraud, because when once the certificate was obtained it was to last for eight years, and the production of the certificate would be exclusive evidence of the right to vote; so that a party might die, and yet his certificate might be rendered available; it was impossible to deny that this would lead to false swearing, for a man would only have to swallow an oath in order to get his vote passed; I use the name of John Moran," continued the hon. and learned Member, "because it happened once, when I sat as assessor, that a voter was objected to, and the man produced a certificate granted to one John Moran. I said, 'If you are John Moran, write your name,' and he took up a pen without hesitation and wrote 'Dennis O'Brien.' This is only one instance," continued the hon. and learned Member, "and I could mention many, why it is right to extend to Ireland the system adopted in England. It is said, that this would occasion too much trouble, but that may be avoided; let the certificate be conclusive evidence, unless the contrary is proved: first, let the old list of voters be published, and next the list of persons objected to; this would give all parties an ample opportunity of making themselves acquainted with the grounds of the objection, and would enable them to ascertain whether the qualifications had ceased, and whether or not the persons objected to were living."223HearCheers,"By a subsequent clause," observed the hon. and learned Member, "it was provided that the certificates should stand for eight years; but he contended for annual scrutiny; they could have no solid protection without it; for though John Moran, the voter on the certificate, should die, still, when the polling time came, there would be a John Moran living. In England the scrutiny was annual, as it ought to be in Ireland. At the elections John Moran would be forthcoming, and if they excluded annual scrutiny, the truth could not be detected, that they were not the persons to whom the certificates had been originally granted; it was impossible that this plan could last longer than a year, because in a Reformed Parliament the common sense English plan would be extended to Ireland. He must really suggest that it was better at once to give Ireland an annual scrutiny, and put it on the same footing as England."222221bona fidebona fidebonâ fide220l.s.l."I approve of the plan laid down for the counties, because it affords a prospect of forming a better class of voters of the 10l.s.s.219l."No person shall be registered in any county in Scotland, unless he be resident; borough electors, not resident, must have shops within the burgh; life-rent, other than by inheritance, not a qualification. No person shall vote as a joint tenant, unless he has a particular interest—owners to be infeft. No person entitled to be registered, unless in possession of lands, &c., of the value of 10l.218"That by the Scotch Reform Bill, the Scotch people obtained extended electoral rights, and lost none; 2dly, that by the English Reform Bill, the people of England obtained several
218217Lord Stanley
 thought they were perfectly justified in proceeding. Having had two nights' debate on the second reading of this bill, and being likely to discuss it again on going into Committee, he did not see why they should again adjourn.Lord J. Russell
 rose to address the House.The Solicitor-General
 would divide the House on his motion.Major Macnamara
232 said, before the House
232Viscount Howick
 said, of course he would not oppose the adjournment of the House, subject however to this proviso, that he thought it would be exceedingly inconvenient to all parties, if, after the discussion on the second reading, and during the whole course of that evening, the adjournment were to take place for more than a very short period; and he should certainly object to the adjournment, and divide the House on the question, if it were not arranged that the debate should be resumed in a very short time. A motion of his right hon. Friend, the Member for Harwich, stood first on the list of motions for next evening; but he would put it to hon. Members whether, for the general convenience of the House, they would allow the ordinary course of an adjournment to take precedence of the other business, and not interpose miscellaneous matter between the debate.Lord Stanley
 did not know that there would be any inconvenience in bringing on the debate next evening. But he should wish to ask the House to receive the report of the Committee of Ways and Means, to enable his right hon. Friend to proceed on Friday according to arrangement. He was quite ready to put off the other orders of the day.Lord J. Russell
 was ready to give way on his motion, being confident that the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, would give him another opportunity of discussing it.Mr. Herries
233 said, if it was understood that Gentlemen were willing to yield precedence, he had not another word to say. But the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and also the hon. Member for Dublin, had two notices which both stood with several
233Lord Stanley
—It is utterly impossible I should facilitate the arrangement.Mr. O'Connell.
: That being the case, if I cannot get the assurance of these Gentlemen to give way, I must, however unwillingly, divide the House on the question of adjournment.Lord Stanley
, though he had voted for the adjournment of the debate, could not support such a motion. If such a course were persisted in, it would put a stop to all public business, and, however reluctant he might be to vote against the hon. and learned Gentleman, he must decline being a party to such a motion.Mr. Oswald
 could not vote for the adjournment of the House. He had voted for the adjournment of the debate, and his reason for doing so was this—the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, whose opinions were always worthy of being listened to with attention, had stated that, in his opinion, as well as in the opinions of other hon. Members, the debate had taken a different form from that which it presented on the second reading.Lord J. Russell
 said, the practical question was, whether, if an adjournment were to take place, it should be to this day or not, and it must be the unanimous feeling of the House, that it ought to be for to-day. On Friday there would be the report of the budget; on Monday the House would not sit. Why then, not agree to the decision to which the majority of the House had come, and let this stand the first in order for to-morrow?Sir R. Peel
179 had stated at an early period of the Session that he should be most desirous of bringing in a measure upon the subject of pilotage generally, because he considered that it was one which was of very great importance. He must confess, however, that after the reception
179Mr. Labouchere
 begged to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade with regard to the pilotage of the coasting steam vessels. In the year 1835 a commission had been appointed to inquire into the system of pilotage, and the report was, that all steam-vessels, whose voyages did not exceed twenty-four hours' duration, and having proper persons on board, capable of navigating them, ought not to be required to take in pilots. He wished to know whether any intention existed on the part of the government to take any measures upon this recommendation?Mr. Mackinnon
l.l.317l.l.316315ante*ante*, in rising to move the second reading of the Weaver Churches' Bill, said he had been informed that this bill was to be opposed by hon. Gentlemen opposite. Only that his informant was worthy of all credit, he could scarcely have believed the rumour, for a bill more calculated to do unmixed good, to check demoralization, to support religion and morality among the community—a bill which ought more readily to receive the sanction of the House than the bill he held in his hand, it was not possible to find. It was a bill to enable the trustees of the river Weaver, a large and prosperous navigation, to provide the means of religious instruction in favour of a large body of men who did not belong to the country in which they lived—who were without landlords or patrons of any sort, or any one to look to for care, a class dependent upon their bodily labour entirely for their support, and who were at present shut out from all means of religious instruction. He was aware that much misrepresentation had gone forth with respect to the bill, and it being entirely of a local
l.l.317l.l.316315ante*ante*Sir P. Egerton
 said, he thought a more gross case of injustice to the public had never been brought before the House. Two cases had been stated—one, the case of those who desired that churches should be built, and the other the case of those who thought they ought not to be built, but the case of the public had not been stated. The case of the public was, that those who obtained benefit from the tolls were the inhabitants of the county of Chester, who ought to pay county rates. They paid no county rates at all, because the public paid more than they ought to pay in the shape of tolls. Instead of applying the surplus as proposed, a committee ought to be appointed to investigate the justice of the present law on this subject; and the inhabitants of the county of Chester ought no longer to raise a considerable sum annually, by which they were totally exempt from the rate.Sir H. Verney
318 would occupy the House but a very short time. The question was, whether it was desirable that churches should be built out of the county rates. The demand for those churches did not originate with the workmen employed in the navigation, and it was
318Mr. E. J. Stanley
 begged to detain the House but for one moment. It was with pain that he stated that he could not support the second reading of the bill. He could not allow funds provided for one purpose to be diverted to another. However, he was bound to say, that the bill was not so unpopular in the county of Chester as had been stated. There was a strong feeling in the county in favour of the bill, but he could not support it, and would, therefore, not vote.Mr. T. Egerton
319 must state, in corroboration of what had fallen from the hon. Secretary for the Treasury, that the general body of the rate-payers were hostile to the bill, and every person who gave an attentive consideration to the case would see that it must be so. The real question was, whether the county-rates were now to be made liable for the rearing of churches. Such was the real question. The charges upon the Weaver were charges upon all classes of people in the country, and the county-rates must be increased in the same ratio as money would be expended on these churches. He agreed in the general proposition, that it would be well that church accommodation should be provided where it was proved that it was absolutely necessary; so also did those whom he represented, but he and they objected to take this money for such a purpose. It
319Mr. J. Jarvis
320—Sir, I regret to observe that even the Weaver churches are made a party question. I hoped it would have been one to which both sides of the House would have lent their support. The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down says, that if the House agrees to the second reading of this bill, all the counties in England will have to build churches out of the county-rate. But this is not the case, for the county of Chester is so peculiarly circumstanced as not to afford a precedent—for what are the facts? The county of Chester is, I believe, the only county in England which from a casual source, by a most extraordinary piece of good fortune, is almost entirely relieved from any county-rate. And the object of this bill is to provide those from whose labours the county of Chester derives this singular advantage with the opportunities of worship. What is there here in common with the other counties of England? Sir, the hon. Member for Cheshire exhorts the House not to suffer this bill to proceed for fear of establishing a principle. That is the very reason for which I hope the House will let it proceed, to establish the principle, which is the principle advocated by the promoters of this bill, that it is the bounden duty of all masters and all employers to take care of those by whose labours they profit. Sir I wish that those who oppose this bill may not have the fear of the rate-payers before their eyes rather than the fear of God. But I am convinced that if this matter were fully explained by the rate-payers of Cheshire, there would be nothing to fear from their disapprobation. The learned Serjeant to whom this case was referred gave it as his
320Mr. Gaily Knight
 said, the case of the county of Chester seemed alone to have been considered in the debate. The case of the public appeared wholly to have been overlooked. Now he considered that the county had no right to apply the funds raised under this bill.Mr. Hindley
Nos neque imperium neque divitas petimus, sed libertatem quam nemo bonus nisa cœca anima simul omittet."328327326bona fide325324 wished to offer a few observations on this important question. He felt it an imperative duty which he could not neglect as representing one of the largest communities in Ireland, to repudiate in the strongest terms the measure now before the consideration of Parliament, which ought to be called a measure for the disfranchisement of Ireland. He felt it a duty devolved on him as representing a large community, for so pernicicious were the tendencies of the bill, that in proportion as the area of any country was extensive, was it more fatally affected by it. He seldom took the liberty of intruding on the time of the House—time which he considered ought to be so valuable, knowing that that which he abstained from doing, would be more efficiently and agreeably performed by others. But on this present occasion, he thought that no Irishman who could raise his voice should be silent, whatever might be his capacity, as the peril in which his country was placed, called the humblest abilities into action. Indeed, no man need fear to address the House for the virtuous cause in which he was
Nos neque imperium neque divitas petimus, sed libertatem quam nemo bonus nisa cœca anima simul omittet."328327326bona fide325324Mr. Dillon Browne
O' Connell: said, that every grievance, however imaginary, had been brought to bear on this question, and threats of physical force had even been resorted to by the other side, which, however, had now lost all their terror. All that hon. Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House sought, in supporting this bill, was to provide an efficient remedy for great and flagrant abuses, which were on all hands acknowledged to exist in the Irish registration, as was proved by the number of bills which had been brought in to amend the present system. All who were acquainted with the present state of Ireland knew that the grossest fraud and perjury prevailed among those who claimed to be registered. He would refer to the testimony of Mr. Scriven, an assistant-barrister, who described the amount of perjury as frightful. [Mr. O' Connell:Mr. J. Young
329 said, that it was quite unfair to charge his side of the House with wishing to retain the evils of the present system of registration in Ireland, as had been done by several hon. Members opposite. It did not follow, that because
329Mr. W. V. Stuart
Ballot332couleur de rose331330 said, that the hon. Gentleman who spoke last on the opposite side, treated the House with an East Indian anecdote, which reminded him (Mr. Roche) of an English one. The celebrated poet, Pope, had been in the habit of using, when his temper was excited, the exclamation, "God mend me," and happening so to express himself on remonstrating with a post-boy, who drove him unsatisfactorily, the postilion repeating the words, added, "it would be much easier to make you over anew;" Pope being personally not well formed. Such, too, was his (Mr. Roche's) opinion of the noble Lord's bill, deeming it, as he did, a measure so bad and incurable as to be unsusceptible of improvement, and requiring to be extinguished altogether. It could not be modelled into any beneficial purpose. The same hon. Member too, used, in characterising the present bill,
Ballot332couleur de rose331330Mr. William Roche
344inter alia,343Modo me Thebis, modo ponit Athenis,342à la Claude Lorraine,"Omnia te adversum spectantia nulla retrorsum.""Vestigia terrent,341Now grudge the cash so fruitlessly supplied."pisanty,But a bold pisanty,A breath can make them, as a breath has made;"Societies may flourish, or may fade,340cum tacent, clamant"Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike."poco-curanteismnon tiquet,mezzotermine339"Off with his head—so much for Brabazon!"Pilot,Post338337bonâ fidebonâ fidescorpiophobia336"The image he himself had wrought,""Each, like the Grecian artist, wooed335fraus noviter veniens ad notitiam,334bonâ fidebonâ fidepro tanto333 said, that in spite, or or rather in consequence, of the objections which had been marshalled in such formidable array, he was persuaded that the
344inter alia,343Modo me Thebis, modo ponit Athenis,342à la Claude Lorraine,"Omnia te adversum spectantia nulla retrorsum.""Vestigia terrent,341Now grudge the cash so fruitlessly supplied."pisanty,But a bold pisanty,A breath can make them, as a breath has made;"Societies may flourish, or may fade,340cum tacent, clamant"Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike."poco-curanteismnon tiquet,mezzotermine339"Off with his head—so much for Brabazon!"Pilot,Post338337bonâ fidebonâ fidescorpiophobia336"The image he himself had wrought,""Each, like the Grecian artist, wooed335fraus noviter veniens ad notitiam,334bonâ fidebonâ fidepro tanto333Sir G. Sinclair
345 was sorry he could not join in the praises heaped upon this bill. It seemed to him that, independent of more serious objections, the machinery was so cumbrous and oppressive, that the poor Irish voter must sink under it, and
345Lord C. Russell
350Laughter.l.l.349l.l.Kemble:l.348ore rotundo,l.l.l.l.347George Sinclair:G. Sinclair346 congratulated the noble Lord who had just sat down upon the sentiments which he had expressed. The people of England did not know what they owed to the family of Russell, but the people of Ireland would never forget it. He regretted to have heard the extraordinary and lamentable exhibition that had preceded the speech of the noble Lord. He had often heard of plays in that House, but he had never before heard of a farce. The hon. Baronet and himself had spent some portion of the earlier part of their lives together, and in the heyday of youth the hon. Baronet was certainly so much of a patriot as to carry the
350Laughter.l.l.349l.l.Kemble:l.348ore rotundo,l.l.l.l.347George Sinclair:G. Sinclair346Mr. H. Grattan
352351 rose without any intention of following the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, through the whole of his speech—without any intention even of alluding to the moderation in which it was conceived—or the modest and quiet demeanour with which it was delivered. Indeed, those qualities were so usual to the hon. Member, that it was quite unnecessary for him to make any observation with regard to them. After the brilliant and conclusive speech of the noble Lord who closed the debate of last night, he felt great hesitation in intruding his opinions at all upon the House, for a more conclusive speech on any subject he had never heard in that House—but the hon. Member for Galway had last night put a question to Irish landlords whether they thought this measure calculated to increase the scarcity of property in Ireland, and to that question he wished to give as explicit an answer as the hon. Member could possibly require; and he said that, not only did the Irish landlords consider that this measure would increase the security of property, but that they ought to think so, because any measure, the object of which was to prevent fraud and perjury, must have a tendency to produce that effect. They were now able to see the real value of the cry of "Justice to Ireland," which had always been accompanied by protestations against any distinction between the laws of the two
352351Viscount Powerscourt
358357356355l.354353 said, it was with great regret, that after the best consideration which he had been able to give to this registration question, and after a careful consideration of all the arguments which had been urged against it both on this and on a
358357356355l.354353Mr. C. Wood
362hatThat one small hat"And still they gazed, and still the wonder grew361360359 would offer very few observations at that period of the evening, although, if he had had an earlier opportunity of addressing them, he might have been disposed to trespass at some length upon their attention. He had listened with great regret to the speech which had just been delivered by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax. Let hon. Gentlemen opposite suppose this bill, and the case of the Irish Members to be their own. Let them go through the ordeals which were proposed by this measure—through these
362hatThat one small hat"And still they gazed, and still the wonder grew361360359Mr. M. J. O'Connell
363 said, this was not the first time he had had occasion to explain to English Members the cause of the misunderstanding which existed between Irish landlords and their tenants, and with which Irish Members had been so frequently taunted. He had stated over and over again in the presence of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that the intervention of agitators between the landlord and his tenants obliged the former to exercise his right to prevent his tenants from being subjected to that tyranny and intimidation by which they had been so frequently overborne. Of all the measures he had ever heard discussed before that House, it had never been his fate to hear one so grossly misrepresented as the present. There had been not only gross misrepresentations in that House, both of the motives of the Mover, and the intention and final operation of the bill, but this gross and shameless delusion had been presented to the people of Ireland—namely, that the bill was a measure of disfranchisement, when its very object was to support the legitimate voter in his rights, and to carry out the law as pronounced by ten out of twelve of the Irish judges. On the part of the illegitimate freeholders of Ireland, he (Colonel Conolly) condemned the principle upon which hon. Members opposite would extend the franchise by corrupt means. As well might it be said, that a limited circulation of money could be extended by an unlimited issue of base coin. The House was already well aware of the scandalous and increasing immorality and frauds which were committed in the Irish registration courts. England and Scotland had both had their registration bills since the passing of the Reform Act, and he called for the same "justice to Ireland." This bill would annihilate the corrupt voter in Ireland; the annual registration was the practice in England, and in Ireland would not be an annoyance to men who had honest votes, those only would tremble who stood on fictitious grounds. For two Parliaments a Member had been by fictitious votes forced upon the county of Kildare, who was unknown, and without property in the county. He had told Mr. Ruthven in that House that he represented neither the wealth nor the intelligence of
363Colonel Conolly
367366365364 said, that if any doubt existed before the speech of the hon. and gallant Member who last spoke as to what was the real object of this bill, he had read to the House a moral lesson calculated to remove all doubt from the minds of the most sceptical. In complete accordance, he feared he must be compelled to say, with what fell from the noble Lord, the author of the bill, on the second reading, it did appear to be the design, if not of its framers, at least of those who supported it, that it should be made the instrument of accomplishing those purposes to which the hon. and gallant Member had referred. He was not surprised—no one could now be surprised that a feeling and sense of hostility had been manifested and expressed from Ireland to the extent even of that acknowledged by the hon. Gentleman who spoke from the floor (Mr. C. Wood). He thought that that might have
367366365364Mr. Pigot
374373372371370369368 could assure the House that it was with great reluctance that he trespassed upon their attention at all after the protracted debate which had taken place on the subject. But it was so painful to him to vote against those with whom he had usually the pleasure of acting in that House, that he felt it was impossible for him to give that vote without explaining the grounds on which he voted, more especially after the speech lately delivered by the hon. and gallant Colonel opposite (Colonel Conolly). It was absolutely necessary, as he found himself compelled to vote in the same division with that hon. and gallant Member, to explain that he did so with totally differ-
374373372371370369368Viscount Howick
375 had not intended to have troubled the House, but he had been called on by some hon. Members near him to give his opinion as an Irish representative. He trusted, however, that the House would allow him to state why he intended to vote against the committee. It was nothing to him that the bill corrected many things which existed in the present system of representation, or which might be found in measures that had been before brought in, he voted against the bill because it did not, in his opinion, afford a proper remedy for whatever evils might exist. He thought that the machinery of registration should become familiar to the people, and to make it so was certainly not the object of the present
375Mr. Gisborne
379Stanleyà priori,378377376 said, that with unfeigned respect for the talents of the noble Lord (Viscount Howick) he felt obliged to pursue a course totally different from that which the noble Lord had adopted for the reason which he had urged. He wished the character of the House of Commons to stand as high as the noble Lord could wish it, and he was anxious to maintain it; but he thought it would be best maintained by not going into committee on this bill. The noble Lord had adverted to some of the clauses of the bill; he would take those clauses also, as a sample of the measure, the principle of which might well be gathered from them, because every clause of the bill was consistent with the principle of it, and that was to offer opposition to the acquirement of the electoral franchise. Every clause was directed to that object, and had a direct tendency to curtail the Franchise. Now, let the House consider; all the country had been hitherto waiting to see what measures would be devised to carry the Reform Act into full effect; they were now, however, asked to go into committee to see how far the Reform Act could be crippled. This was his opinion of the bill, and he would say, that when the bill came to be fully understood in the country, and the clauses should have been longer before the country, the greatest regret would be felt that the House should show such a disposition to tamper with the Reform Act as to go into
379Stanleyà priori,378377376The Solicitor-General
 felt convinced no further discussion on the subject was necessary, and he called on the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies to act upon the opinion he expressed last night, that an adjournment was uncalled for.Sir R. Peel
 should certainly vote against the adjournment of the debate.Lord J. Russell
 begged to assure the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, that if this futile attempt of adjournment was persevered in, he, for one, should do every thing in his power to prevent any of the Government business being proceeded with.Lord Ingestrie
385 said, the noble Lord chose to presume that those who had moved the adjournment were acting under his control. He would tell the noble Lord, that if those who made motions of adjournment were always under his control, he should have taken care last year, when his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, proposed a bill, that repeated motions for adjournment should not have been made upon that bill by those who supported the Government in that House. The course taken with respect to that bill was to obstruct it by repeated adjournments, and it seemed that parties not very different from those who made that opposition were now obstructing by motions of the same kind the bill proposed by the noble Lord opposite. He was no party to that course; he did not approve of it, but having been unable to prevent that course being taken with respect to a bill proposed by a Member of the Government, he did say, that the noble Lord had no right whatever, either to accuse him of promoting this motion for adjournment, or to accuse those who
385Lord J. Russell
 said, that having moved the adjournment, he begged to assure the noble Lord that he had as much to do with the motion as the noble Lord opposite himself had.Mr. Hume
 bagged most distinctly to assure the noble Lord that he meant no imputation with respect to any connexion on his part with the hon. Gentleman who had moved the adjournment. What he meant to say was this, that those who supported that motion were the habitual supporters of the noble Lord.Lord Ingestrie
 declared, that his object had been in moving the adjournment to give his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. O'Connell) an opportunity of delivering his sentiments on this most important question; and as he himself was also anxious to state his views upon it, but had not been able, though he had frequently risen in the course of the evening, to catch the Speaker's eye, he now felt it to be his duty to move, that the debate be adjourned till this day.Mr. Hume
391390 said, it really was time for the House to consider seriously to what length they were disposed to permit the abuse of what in itself was really a most valuable privilege. No one was more ready than he was to admit that there were occasions on which some unreasonable propositions might be pressed in a thin House, and at a very late hour, by an overwhelming majority, for which the power of moving adjournments was the last and only remedy. In his judgment it was valuable at such a time, but then only was it a justifiable measure. It must be clear to every one, that if any Gentleman on either side was determined that a great question should not be settled without even offering to submit his opinions on the subject from five o'clock in the afternoon to two next morning. He might, by moving adjournment after adjournment, render it absolutely impossible to conduct the business of the House. He really should have thought that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin coming over from Ireland, burning with resentment against this bill, and against him, having met him face to face in that House, would have taken the earliest opportunity of redeeming the pledge he made in Dublin, that he would reiterate his charges to his f ice, and that the hon. and learned Gentleman would, at all events, have had the honesty of purpose to do so according to
391390Lord Stanley
 certainly felt that in the position in which this question stood, the noble Lord had taken the only course which he could pursue, and he hoped that other Members would follow his own example, and wave the orders for which they had precedence. He felt bound to give way himself, as the course of proceeding which had been adopted was one to which he would never be a party.Mr. Serjeant Talfourd
"ROB. NETTLES, Hon. Dist. Sec.""Your obedient servant,"I remain, Sir,426" SIR,—I have been directed to state to you, that the person whose name is mentioned on the other side, has served notice to re-register
426" Nettleville, March 25, 1839.Stanley425l424ll: Instead of feeling annoyed at the unnecessary allegation of fact by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Thesiger), which, if I thought it necessary, I could show to be different, I am ready to concede to him that he has mad out a case, to a certain extent, in his attempt to prove, that this bill is favourable to Members, and to persons petitioning It is equally advantageous to the 50"ROB. NETTLES, Hon. Dist. Sec.""Your obedient servant,"I remain, Sir,426" SIR,—I have been directed to state to you, that the person whose name is mentioned on the other side, has served notice to re-register
426" Nettleville, March 25, 1839.Stanley425l424llMr. O'Connell
: At this late hour I certainly do not think of taking any substantive stage in the bill, but I trust that the noble Lord will not object to my moving that the bill be read paragraph by paragraph, and that the preamble be postponed.Lord Stanley
460; I do not wish to do
460Lord Stanley
pro forma: I certainly think it better, that the committee should adopt the course proposed by the noble Lord, as he merely wished to report progress pro formaLord J. Russell
 would not consent to allow a single stage to be taken that night. He should oppose any such step at that late hour.Lord J. Russell
: I never saw any attempt made to proceed with a bill in Committee on the same night in which a long and protracted debate terminated at a late hour.Lord J. Russell
405 observed, that although they had been abandoned by the Members of the Government, and by the noble Lord who had brought forward the
405Mr. D. Callaghan
404; The hon. Member
404Mr. E. B. Roche
l399 wished that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had attended the registry sessions in Ireland last summer. If he had, he would have learned many facts that would have produced an alteration, at least a modification of his opinions, and they would then have more weight, both with the House and the country, than they now were entitled to. The hon. Member had complained of the defective state of the representation of Ireland, and compared the numbers who enjoyed the franchise there with those who enjoyed it in England. If the hon. Member complained abstractedly that the numbers were not sufficient in proportion to the population, on the ground which he believed the hon. Member advocated, hat household or universal suffrage was to be the criterion of representation, it would not be necessary for him to combat that opinion, as that was not the question now before the House, but whether the
l399Mr. Lucas
423422421420419ad captandum418s417 said, that after three nights of unrestrained discussion upon the bill before the House, he confessed it did astonish him to hear the speech which had just been delivered by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite. After the
423422421420419ad captandum418s417Mr. Thesiger
bona fide403No, no,402 was not surprised at the vehement opposition which had been offered by a certain party to this bill. He was not surprised that in compliance with the demands which had been so imperiously and so significantly made by the leaders of that party, her Majesty's Government should have consented to oppose it; he owned, however, he was surprised, that after the second reading of the bill had been carried by a majority of sixteen—that after a majority of that House had declared its opinion that the present system of registration in Ireland did require alteration and revision, her Majesty's Government should deem it to be consistent with their public duty to interpose delay in the consideration of what that revision should be. He was also surprised that her Majesty's Government having resolved upon this course had not thought it necessary to furnish the House with some better reasons for its adoption than any which had yet been urged by the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Solicitor-General,) in this debate. It was not the use of violent and abusive language at the Corn Exchange at Dublin-it was not the branding of the noble Lord, the framer of this bill, with epithets that reflected discredit only upon those who
bona fide403No, no,402Mr. Milnes Gaskell
409408407406 said, that he was at all times unwilling to obtrude himself on the attention of the House, when he had around him so many hon. Members who were fully able to do justice to the views and feelings he entertained, yet he could
409408407406Mr. Somers
: I hope it is not intended to go on with this bill to-night.Mr. Hume
: I will not allow a single step to be taken, and I now move that the Chairman leave the chair.Mr. Hume
398397396395394Hon.393392 said, that having last night or rather this morning, proposed the adjournment of this debate, he was anxious to state to the House his reasons for having taken that step. He had several times during the debate endeavoured to catch the Speaker's eye, and not having been
398397396395394Hon.393392Mr. Hume
401400 would leave it to the noble Lord to say why he wished to return to the system under the Roman Catholic Relief Bill. His proposal so to do only proved that he was attempting to repeal the Reform Bill—he ought to go back to the franchise which existed before the Reform Bill. His objections affected entirely the principle of this measure, and he had not that sanguine expectation which the hon. Member for Northumberland entertained, that the bill would be so altered in committee as to induce him to give it his support. The instances quoted of fraudulent voting and of perjury in sup-
401400Mr. Redington
416415ll414lll413ls412may possibly"Not what the owner occupying it himself may possiblymay possibly"That the value of a freehold, in right of which the owner votes, is the rent which a tenant would give for it, and not what the owner occupying it himself may possibly411"He could not consent, after the experience of the last few years, and the anxiety which had been shewn for the establishment in the three countries, of a representation founded upon the same principles to apply to the property of Scotland, a different rule from that which governed England and Ireland."410, after vindicating the motives of those who had called for the prolongation of the debate to the third night, and the propriety of that course, said, that he was opposed to this bill, upon the ground that it was calculated to continue and confirm the existing system of Irish franchise, and consequently that dissimilarity between the Irish and the English franchises, which, he thought, ought to have been only temporary, and that it would have the effect of giving validity to an interpretation, in his opinion erroneous, which had been put upon a very important portion of the Irish Reform Act, by a majority of the Irish Judges; and which it had been attempted to enforce by claiming for the twelve Judges as a tribunal, an authority, which in this province of law, did not belong to them. The abolition, in 1829, of the qualification arising from the forty shillings freehold, might be justified as a necessary precaution against the dangers inseparable from so great a political change as then took place; but, it was to be hoped that those dangers were temporary, and the restrictive precaution ought to be temporary also. It was not necessary to consider upon this occasion, whether there ought to be, simply, an assimilation of the Irish to the present English franchise; or whether the English franchise should not undergo some change, but it was desirable, that, in one way or another, at, at no very distant day, the English and the Irish franchises should be made identically the same. On the 13th April, 1839, in a debate on a bill brought in by the Lord Advocate of Scotland, the noble Lord himself, who brought in the Bill now under discussion,
416415ll414lll413ls412may possibly"Not what the owner occupying it himself may possiblymay possibly"That the value of a freehold, in right of which the owner votes, is the rent which a tenant would give for it, and not what the owner occupying it himself may possibly411"He could not consent, after the experience of the last few years, and the anxiety which had been shewn for the establishment in the three countries, of a representation founded upon the same principles to apply to the property of Scotland, a different rule from that which governed England and Ireland."410Sir Charles Grey
bonâ fide448l447ls."If the registering banister shall adjudge any claimant to be entitled to be registered, it shall be lawful for any person who had opposed such registration, to appeal from such adjudication."446Question.lsl445444443" The present heirs apparent having seats in the House of Commons, being deeply imbued with popular impressions, would at some future time get into the House of Lords, and would by the special course of reason intrude new feelings and principles into the House of Lords, and when that happy time should come, then, and not till then, would the noble Lord's Registration Bill pass."" He would go on year after year sending up bills to the House of Lords, and remain perfectly indifferent as to the registration; "he said" he expected the House of Lords would reject them—that years would pass before the House of Lords was sufficiently enlightened to adopt them; but the time would come when ultimately the House of Lords would accede to the views of the House of Commons, and pass the Registration Bill.''442441440439 "I think there cannot be a greater error than to throw the appointment of the registering barristers into the hands of the judges. It would certainly be best to make the registration for a year, and not to give the House of Commons the power of opening the registry. That will be put an end to by this bill, which gives a final appeal to the judges, and that
439438Loud "hears" stopped the right hon. Baronet in the midst of his sentence.Hear.437 said, he should occupy the attention of the House for a very short time. He did not intend to enter upon any consideration of the clauses of the bill, for the whole progress of the debate had convinced him that it was a wise rule and practice of the House which reserved the consideration of the separate clauses for Committee. Four-fifths of the present debate had turned on details, and not on the great question really before the House—whether any attempt should be made to improve the system of Irish registration. There were two alternatives before the House—either to attempt to reform the admitted evils of the present Irish registration, or to postpone indefinitely, if not absolutely abandon the attempt, as suggested by her Majesty's Government.
bonâ fide448l447ls."If the registering banister shall adjudge any claimant to be entitled to be registered, it shall be lawful for any person who had opposed such registration, to appeal from such adjudication."446Question.lsl445444443" The present heirs apparent having seats in the House of Commons, being deeply imbued with popular impressions, would at some future time get into the House of Lords, and would by the special course of reason intrude new feelings and principles into the House of Lords, and when that happy time should come, then, and not till then, would the noble Lord's Registration Bill pass."" He would go on year after year sending up bills to the House of Lords, and remain perfectly indifferent as to the registration; "he said" he expected the House of Lords would reject them—that years would pass before the House of Lords was sufficiently enlightened to adopt them; but the time would come when ultimately the House of Lords would accede to the views of the House of Commons, and pass the Registration Bill.''442441440439 "I think there cannot be a greater error than to throw the appointment of the registering barristers into the hands of the judges. It would certainly be best to make the registration for a year, and not to give the House of Commons the power of opening the registry. That will be put an end to by this bill, which gives a final appeal to the judges, and that
439438Loud "hears" stopped the right hon. Baronet in the midst of his sentence.Hear.437Sir R. Peel
 wished to know whether the noble Lord was serious in attempting to force this bill through the Committee? The noble Lord must be aware, that with his measuring-cast majority he had not the slightest chance of
carrying this bill through the House. The noble Lord must be aware of the great excitement which this bill had created amongst the people of Ireland. The noble Lord must be aware that it was not a question in that House, whether that excitement was right or wrong. He believed that it was right, the noble Lord might think it wrong, but even so, what use was there—he put the question distinctly to the noble Lord—in keeping up that excitement on a bill which he must know he could not carry?Sir W. Somerville
454453bon— fide452451450Hear and interruption449 said, that as the right hon. Baronet had begun by assuring the House that he would not trespass long upon their attention—an attention which was always most willingly conceded by the House to the right hon. Baronet—he trusted that he should not so far miscalculate his own position as to trespass upon their time at so late an hour, and at the close of so protracted a debate. He should be less inclined to do so, as he had had abundant opportunities of fully stat-
454453bon— fide452451450Hear and interruption449Viscount Morpeth
488l. then rose to call the attention of the House to the subject of a petition presented from Mr. Hercules Bradshaw, on the 7th May, complaining of his having been subjected to a loss of 16,000488l.Mr. O'Connell
 was of opinion that there should be the greatest delicacy on the part of Government in treating applications of this nature, when great discoveries often turned out to be great failures. He was happy to state, that the Anatomy Act had been completely successful, and that not a single case of what was termed "resurrection" now occurred.Mr. F. Maule
 said, that in answer to an application from Mr. Roberts, he referred that gentleman to a committee of Inquiry which was then sitting at the House of Commons. Before that committee, however, Mr. Roberts never chose to appear,Mr. Hawes
 said, that the course suggested would be as irregular as that originally intended to be taken by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford University. He was quite sure that the hon. Member must be aware of the necessity of a notice of any motion that the House should resolve itself into a Committee upon this subject.The Speaker
 said, that the Standing Order of the House was, "that this House shall not proceed on any motion for addressing the Crown for any money to be issued, or expense incurred, without notice."The Speaker
491l.l.490l.l.489 rose to call the attention of the House to the petition of Mr. Roberts, which had been presented on the 3rd of April, and which related to a subject of much importance in an anatomical point of view. The petitioner had discovered an antiseptic process, by which animal substances could be preserved from putrefaction, and to the value of that discovery some of the ablest surgeons and anatomical teachers in the metropolis had borne testimony. Those gentlemen, in a letter, which he held in his hand, stated that they were convinced, from what they had seen, that Mr. Roberts's preparation was capable of keeping in a fresh, moist, and inoffensive state, the flesh of animals, and they thought that it might become of important use to surgeons and students of anatomy, and that it might be made to promote materially the objects of the Anatomy Bill. That letter was signed by Sir A. Cooper, Sir C. Brodie, Mr. Green, and other gentlemen of high standing in the medical profession. There was another letter, to the same effect from Dr. Somerville, who stated, that he owed it to Mr. Roberts not less than to the medical profession, to bear his testimony to the merits of the process by which portions of the human body had been preserved for a period exceeding six weeks. Those Gentlemen, and many others, had expressed themselves in the most decided terms as to the merits of this discovery, and they had suggested to Mr. Roberts, that the hon. Member for Bridport, from his connexion with the Anatomy Bill, and from the influence which he possessed with the Government, was the best person to whom he could apply in order to have the process adopted generally in the anatomical schools, and in a manner the best cal-
491l.l.490l.l.489Mr. F. French
 thought, that if this were really a valuable discovery, as from its nature it was not entitled to receive a patent, the individual was entitled to some remuneration at the hands of the public,Mr. Goulburn
"Dr. Somerville mentioned at a meeting of the committee, that Mr. Roberts had expressed his determination, unless the governors advised the use of his antiseptic fluid, to obstruct the distribution of bodies to the anatomical schools."492 thought it would have been only fair if the hon. Member who had brought forward this subject had applied to him in the first place, and before submitting this motion to the House. Had he done so, the hon. Gentleman would have received the fullest explanation of all the circumstances to which he had adverted; but, as he had thought proper to pursue a different course, and without any intimation had made a statement on the subject to the House, he felt he had some cause to complain of the manner in which he had been treated. Mr. Roberts had come to him and had shown him letters from some of the most respectable members of the medical profession in favour of his discovery, and had asked him to bring his invention under the notice of the Government. To that request he had replied, that he was no judge of the merits of the process, but that the great question to be considered was, in his opinion, whether it was economical and easy in its application. He had also stated to Mr. Roberts, that he was willing to see the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon the subject, and he had said he would recommend the Chancellor to make him a small grant in the first place, and a larger one afterwards should the discovery prove effectual. While,
"Dr. Somerville mentioned at a meeting of the committee, that Mr. Roberts had expressed his determination, unless the governors advised the use of his antiseptic fluid, to obstruct the distribution of bodies to the anatomical schools."492Mr. Warburton
 thought, that the effect of leaving the question thus unsettled would be, to increase the agitation which already existed throughout the country upon this subject. He begged to ask what there was to prevent the hon. Baronet now moving that the House should go into Committee? Or, if it would be a more convenient course, he would submit the motion which he had on the paper as a substantive motion, and the hon. Baronet might make his motion by way of amendment.Mr. Hume
 inquired whether it were impossible that any question respecting religion could be entered into without previous notice.Mr. Hume
487 said, that since he had entered the House he had received a communication which, he feared, left him no alternative but that of postponing the motion which he had placed on the paper for this evening. He begged to apologise to hon. Members on both sides of the House for the needless trouble which he had given them, and he deeply regretted, for the sake of the cause which he advocated, that any circumstance should have arisen to prevent his bringing forward his motion. At the same time, the communication which he had received was of such a nature, and of so high an authority, that he thought it more
487Sir R. H. Inglis
 said, that before proceeding with the business of the day, for the convenience of the House, he begged to move the order of the day for the Committee upon the Irish Registration Bill, in order that he might postpone it.Lord Stanley
507 did not suppose that it would make much difference, whether the notice of the postponement was given now, or at some subsequent time. He wished to take the earliest opportunity of stating
507Lord Stanley
509 wished to know from the noble Lord, whether it were his intention to bring forward any motion for the purpose, for the third time, of offering opposition to going into Committee on this bill? With regard to the comparison between the bills, which it appeared they were now to have on the part of her Majesty's Government, and that which he had had the honour of suggesting to the House, he should now only say that he would not, on his part, offer the least opposition to the Solicitor-general for Ireland introducing his bill on Tuesday; but he must declare that it would be a source of great gratification to him to see the manner in which the Government proposed to carry out
509Lord Stanley
513 said, that his objection was, that the voters could not be entitled to the franchise when they were
513Mr. M. J. O'Connell
 having moved the order of the day for the second reading of the Customs, &c, Duties' Bill,The Chancellor of' the Exchequer
 objected not only to the increased duty of 5 per cent, indiscriminately laid on all articles at present subjected to tax, but also to the mode in which it was proposed to be levied. Neither could he agree with that particular part of the plan of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer which imposed only 5 per cent, additional on spirits manufactured in England, while it added from 14 to 15 per cent, on spirits distilled in Scotland, and, he believed, also in Ireland. And he could assure the right hon. Gentleman, that if he hoped for additional revenue from this additional duty on those articles, he would find himself miserably deceived. The same plan was tried in 1830 by the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, and it failed to such an extent that his successor was obliged to repeal it. But the right hon. Gentleman was not alone laying the foundation of a deficient revenue from these articles of industry, he was also about to renew the demoralising system of illicit distillation, for that would be the inevitable result, by bringing foreign manufactured spirits into competition with homemade spirits, by reducing the duty on French brandy 50 per cent, as the right hon. Gentleman proposed. He would not oppose the second reading of the bill; but he should be prepared to propose some amendments in committee, which would go to effect the object he had in view— namely, the equalization of the duty, and the protection of the home trade in spirits.Captain Gordon
llllllll521 said, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Ex-
llllllll521Mr. William Williams
 thought the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was the best that could be devised under the circumstances, and therefore he should support it.Mr. Rice
527526 said, that as the general disposition of the House appeared to be to assent to, or rather not dissent from, the measure proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and as that disposition was not guided by any approval of the financial merits of the arrangements proposed, but by a conviction of the necessity of providing in some way for the deficiency in the revenue, he did not feel authorised to oppose himself to the prevailing sentiment. Certainly, as he did not participate in the views of the hon. Member who had moved an amendment, he should not support that amendment. But at the same time, entertaining strong doubts of the advantages of the particular plan adopted for raising the additional taxation which was required, he could not refrain from
527526Mr. W. Attwood
 confirmed the accuracy of the statements which had been made as to the condition of the poor, who were worse of now than they were ever known to be. If additional taxes were required, they ought to be imposed on property, which course, while it rendered property more secure, would afford relief to the working classes.Mr. Turner
: Of course the hon Baronet is quite correct in stating that the House cannot take any step, whatever the law may be, upon the document which lie has read. With respect to the question which the hon. Gentleman has asked, my answer certainly will not be of a very precise description. All I have to say is, that having come to town on Monday afternoon, on Tuesday Lord Melbourne informed me that he had made an offer to Mr. Horsman, and he stated, that that Gentleman seemed inclined to accept it. That is the utmost amount that passed. I left Lord Melbourne immediately afterwards, and I have no further information with respect to the subject. Of course I cannot say anything with regard to the general law respecting appointments to office.Lord John Russell
510 must beg to say a few words with respect to the last observations which had fallen from the noble Lord opposite, and he really wished to assure the noble Lord that no intention existed on his part to monopolise the Wednesday. As to what the noble Lord had said with respect to this bill, he begged leave to point out to him that, of course, if there were a certain number of bills introduced by the Government, and if, in addition to those, three or four others should be introduced, all upon very important subjects, it would not conduce to the passing the Government bills through the House. The noble Lord had asked him whether he meant to interpose any proposal, in order to obstruct him in his carrying the question that the Speaker leave the Chair in the Registration of Voters' Bill. He begged to say, without exactly pledging himself to the course which he should take, that he should think himself perfectly at liberty to move any other of these bills relating to the registration to be considered in Committee in preference to that of the noble Lord's. He
510Lord J. Russell
508 might as well state the course he proposed to pursue with respect to that subject. It was, as the noble Lord observed, a very important question; and, if the question of registration was to be taken up, of course it would have a considerable effect with respect to the general business of the Session. He had already proposed, that the Thursdays after the 1st of June should be taken with a view to enable the bills to be proceeded with which had been introduced by the Members of her Majesty's Government, and some of which were of great importance, more especially the bills regarding Canada, the bill for the continuance of the Poor-law, and the bill with regard to ecclesiastical duties and revenues. These subjects being before the House, it certainly had not been his intention to have proceeded so early with the Registration Bill: but, agreeing with the noble Lord that it was a very important subject, if the noble Lord proposed that that matter was to be discussed on Thursday, the 4th of June— thereby taking certainly a day intended for other business—he must consider what course he would take with regard to that very important subject. He did not think it would be either for the convenience of the House, or favourable to the discussion upon the bills, that the House should take the subject into consideration without having before it the proposals he had to make with regard to it. It was, therefore, his intention to lay before the House, on Tuesday next, his bill for the Registration of Voters in England; and his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-general for Ireland, would move, on the same day, for leave to bring in a bill with regard to the Registration of Voters in Ireland. He
508Lord J. Russell
 said, that this seemed to him to be rather an extraordinary course to adopt. This was the day usually appropriated to the Government. Notice had been already given, that the bill with regard to the taxes would be brought on tonight the first thing, but the first question with regard to this order might be one of debate.Lord John Russell
524"Or it shall be at the option of the party entering into the contract, or of the purchaser, to declare the contract null and void." could not support the motion of the hon. Member for Coventry. He thought that, generally speaking, out of doors the mode in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had proposed to raise the additional revenue was rather acceptable than otherwise. He wished to ask an explanation from the Chancellor of the Exchequer of a proviso in the 7th clause of the bill, relating to contracts already made, to this effect:—.
524"Or it shall be at the option of the party entering into the contract, or of the purchaser, to declare the contract null and void."Mr. Hawes
 would not enter into the question of the corn-laws on the present occasion, but he believed that if it had not been for the existing system, the country would now be in a state of starvation. With respect to taxation in general, he would say, that though it might appear to be a very fair principle to raise 5 per cent, upon the general taxation, yet if one article was taxed at 1,200 per cent., and another at 500 per cent., great injustice might be done to particular parties.Mr. Darby
548 was perfectly satisfied that this measure was not of a temporary nature, but that there would be many calls like the present, each louder than the foregoing. Improvement was talked of, but he asked where it was to come from? It was quite notorious, that not a single manufacture of ours was worked to any profit. And not only that, but the labourer could hardly exist on the wages which he received. As to the corn-laws, he did not wonder that the landlords should uphold them in defence of their property, He owned if he were similarly situated he should do the same. What he found fault with the landlords for was, that they did not give wages proportioned to the prices
548Mr. Muntz
547546545544ad valorem543de mortuis nil nisi bonum542Vin d'Ay,541conamore540539538curacoa537intactis quoque cura conditione super communi.536535534533bona fidedevant532ci-soi-disant531coute qui coute,hocus pocus530529"GEORGE SINCLAIR.""Very faithfully yours,"Believe me to remain,thousand copies of the report as it appeared in the newspapers. As no one is more thoroughly conversant than yourself with the momentous subjects, to which my remarks referred, I have been induced by so decided an intimation of your approval to prepare a corrected edition for the press.quid pro quo528"My dear Scholefield;—I should not have printed, in a separate form, my speech on the condition and feelings of the working classes, if you had not intimated a wish to circulate a"London, 27th May, 1840.To J. SCHOLEFIELD, ESQ. M.P.*** spoke to the following effect:547546545544ad valorem543de mortuis nil nisi bonum542Vin d'Ay,541conamore540539538curacoa537intactis quoque cura conditione super communi.536535534533bona fidedevant532ci-soi-disant531coute qui coute,hocus pocus530529"GEORGE SINCLAIR.""Very faithfully yours,"Believe me to remain,thousand copies of the report as it appeared in the newspapers. As no one is more thoroughly conversant than yourself with the momentous subjects, to which my remarks referred, I have been induced by so decided an intimation of your approval to prepare a corrected edition for the press.quid pro quo528"My dear Scholefield;—I should not have printed, in a separate form, my speech on the condition and feelings of the working classes, if you had not intimated a wish to circulate a"London, 27th May, 1840.To J. SCHOLEFIELD, ESQ. M.P.***Sir George Sinclair
 said, the question was, were we at liberty, under existing treaties with the United States, to give to the produce of the empire of Morocco, with which we had no particular connexion, an advantage denied to the commerce of the United States.Mr. Goulburn
518 said, that looking at the strict letter of the treaty, we should be perfectly justified in that view of the ease on which Government had proceeded in the present instance; but a question might, perhaps, arise under other circumstances, whether we had not taken an indirect mode of violating the spirit of the treaty, which would render it a matter of fair and just complaint against us by the foreign state. He had never heard any speech with greater surprise than that of the right hon. Member for Harwich, knowing, as he did, the right hon. Gentleman's extensive knowledge of the subject and long official experience. The question, lie conceived, lay in a nutshell. It was
518Mr. Labouchere
 said, with regard to some of the details in this bill, he believed the right hon. Gentleman's expectation of an increase of revenue from an increase of duty, would be disappointed. The effect of the alteration of duties on timber would be to raise the price of Baltic timber more than that of colonial timber, and therefore to diminish the importation of the former and increase the quantity of the latter, which paid a duty so much lower. The present revenue from timber was as follows:—Mr. Warburton
 complained that no answer had been given to some of his objections, which might have been answered without inconvenience to the public service. The mere declaration that "we would persist in our determination" was not a sufficient answer to the memorialists. They ought to be informed of the grounds on which that determination was founded.Mr. Herries
l516"The papers had been send to the Lords of the Treasury, and that their Lordships informed him that they were referred to the law officers of the Crown for their opinion."515d514 said, he would take that opportunity of addressing some observations to the House on a subject to which he had before called the attention of hon. Members in moving for certain papers which had since been laid upon the table. The subject was intimately connected with the bill the second reading of which had just been moved by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he felt that it would be most convenient to avail himself of that opportunity for offering the remarks which he had to make for the consideration of the House. Before he sat down, he hoped he should be able to satisfy the House and the Government, that there had been on this subject a great mistake committed, and great injustice done, and that no time ought to be lost in affording a remedy. The papers for which he had moved were printed under the title of "Rough Rice," and he could assure the House, that they would be found well worthy of the most attentive consideration.
l516"The papers had been send to the Lords of the Treasury, and that their Lordships informed him that they were referred to the law officers of the Crown for their opinion."515d514Mr. Herries
llLaughter.lll523llllllllllllllll522 observed that his hon. Friend was obliged to make this motion, as, to attain his object, he could not do otherwise, according to the rules of the House. He agreed with his hon. Friend in thinking that the taxes proposed pressed particularly upon the middle and working classes of so-
llLaughter.lll523llllllllllllllll522Mr. Hume
 could state an additional fact to that stated by the hon. Member for Kerry; and that was, that on Mr. Tighe returning to Dublin, and conferring with other Members of the legal profession, he became convinced that his decision in the case in question was erroneous, and he intimated that if the same claims were brought forward again, he would admit them.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
549 wished to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether the addition of ten per cent, to the assessed taxes applied to those buildings which were not enlarged, but in
549Mr. Bernal
, whilst he felt bound to vote with Ministers, bore testimony to the fact, that the sufferings of the poor were great and increasing. He hoped the time would soon arrive when they would abandon such paltry objects of contention as usually engaged the attention of the Legislature, and apply themselves to the far nobler purpose of improving the condition of the great mass of the people. If they did not, they would soon forfeit the confidence of their constituents.Mr. Slaney
l said, the House of Commons should be a check upon the extravagance of the Executive Government, whereas there was no security but the moderation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and of the Secretary of the Treasury against the extravagance of the House. He found that the hon. Members for Lambeth, Kilkenny, and Bridport, had agreed to incur an expenditure of 400,000lMr. Gisborne
"Was that before or after the election?—It was after.""Nor their property, by any violence?—Yes, their houses were attacked; I made them an allowance for their windows, which they said had been broken and their doors smashed in." But their persons have not been injured? —Not that I know of."Mr. O'Conaell: Have any been actually injured?—Not personally; they have been injured in pocket, so far that they could not get their corn purchased in the town of Drumleish when they brought it there, and in other instances they were obliged to send it out in strangers' names, that they should not tell who it belonged to.512"Mr. Lefroy: Upon that townland, after the last election, were not the tenants refused assistance to mow their land?—I understood
512"Graves were dug opposite to the houses of some of the voters?—Yes, in this townland of Driminacreeher; on the other townland of Derrihelin, upon which the six voters were, some were obliged to go from their houses and conceal themselves."Upon a former occasion?—Yes; the excitement might not have been so great. These men might have been induced to go against their landlord in consequence of intimidation, of graves being dug opposite the houses of some of the voters," Chairman: With the exception of Burne and Cunningham?—Without any exception."How did the remaining tenants act; did any others go against their landlord; I think you said there were sixteen altogether?—Yes; I remember polling every man of them."Is there any reason why those tenants should have been disposed, if they had been left to the exercise of their own feelings and judgment, to have acted against their landlord?—I think not."Now, from your acquaintance with the estate, have you any doubt the wish of the tenants would have been to have gone in accordance with the wishes of their landlord upon all occasions, if they had been left to their own free choice?—My own opinion is they would.""Then those covenants were introduced as a protection to the tenants, that they might have an excuse to those who pressed them to act against the wishes of their landlord and their own wishes?—Certainly; as a protection to the tenant."With respect to leaving in Roman Catholics and not bringing in Protestants upon the estate?—There is not a single Protestant upon that part with respect to which I was asked about the leases. Only two deaths had taken place, and the widow had been left in at the same rent, though in setting the farm, I desired the surveyor, who is a very experienced person, to give me a return of what he thought the land was worth, without reference to the registration, and in every instance I made an abatement from the rent he laid on to enable the tenants to register. On suggesting to Mr. Lefroy that these men should not be disturbed in their holdings, I recommended some covenant should be shaped, in protection to them, that they could say, if wanted to be forced to poll against his interest, there was something or other which stood between them and their doing so. I believe it was in consequence of that suggestion that those covenants were introduced.511 rose to request the attention of the House to a matter connected with this subject, upon which he conceived that he was bound to say a few words to the House. It would be in the recollection of the House, that upon the debate the other evening upon this bill, a statement had been made by the hon. Member for Kerry as to certain evidence produced before the fictitious votes committee for Ireland. The evidence which that hon. Member had stated to the House related to certain leases made on a part of his (Dr. Lefroy's) property in the county of Longford; and it had been referred to with the view of showing that the leases were valueless for the purpose of voting, and that the tenants who had sworn were, therefore, guilty of perjury, and he had been accessory to the crime. He did not mean to say that the hon. Member had travelled out of the privilege or duty; but when the House had heard the charge, and when the hon. Member had thought fit to make it, considering its grave and serious nature, he thought that the House would now allow him an opportunity of giving an answer to it. He certainly should have expected that when a charge of this nature was brought before the House, the hon. Member would have laid all the evidence before them which fairly related to it; but he contended that the most important part of it was omitted. At the time when these leases were made, a certain part of the property, occupied by Roman Catholics, being out of lease, it was determined, instead of putting them off the property, to give them new leases. But at that time the country was in a peculiar state of excitement, produced by intimidation; and he would now call the attention of the House to the particular evidence in relation to this subject. The witness, Thomas Courtenay, had been examined with respect to the leases; and he was asked:—
"Was that before or after the election?—It was after.""Nor their property, by any violence?—Yes, their houses were attacked; I made them an allowance for their windows, which they said had been broken and their doors smashed in." But their persons have not been injured? —Not that I know of."Mr. O'Conaell: Have any been actually injured?—Not personally; they have been injured in pocket, so far that they could not get their corn purchased in the town of Drumleish when they brought it there, and in other instances they were obliged to send it out in strangers' names, that they should not tell who it belonged to.512"Mr. Lefroy: Upon that townland, after the last election, were not the tenants refused assistance to mow their land?—I understood
512"Graves were dug opposite to the houses of some of the voters?—Yes, in this townland of Driminacreeher; on the other townland of Derrihelin, upon which the six voters were, some were obliged to go from their houses and conceal themselves."Upon a former occasion?—Yes; the excitement might not have been so great. These men might have been induced to go against their landlord in consequence of intimidation, of graves being dug opposite the houses of some of the voters," Chairman: With the exception of Burne and Cunningham?—Without any exception."How did the remaining tenants act; did any others go against their landlord; I think you said there were sixteen altogether?—Yes; I remember polling every man of them."Is there any reason why those tenants should have been disposed, if they had been left to the exercise of their own feelings and judgment, to have acted against their landlord?—I think not."Now, from your acquaintance with the estate, have you any doubt the wish of the tenants would have been to have gone in accordance with the wishes of their landlord upon all occasions, if they had been left to their own free choice?—My own opinion is they would.""Then those covenants were introduced as a protection to the tenants, that they might have an excuse to those who pressed them to act against the wishes of their landlord and their own wishes?—Certainly; as a protection to the tenant."With respect to leaving in Roman Catholics and not bringing in Protestants upon the estate?—There is not a single Protestant upon that part with respect to which I was asked about the leases. Only two deaths had taken place, and the widow had been left in at the same rent, though in setting the farm, I desired the surveyor, who is a very experienced person, to give me a return of what he thought the land was worth, without reference to the registration, and in every instance I made an abatement from the rent he laid on to enable the tenants to register. On suggesting to Mr. Lefroy that these men should not be disturbed in their holdings, I recommended some covenant should be shaped, in protection to them, that they could say, if wanted to be forced to poll against his interest, there was something or other which stood between them and their doing so. I believe it was in consequence of that suggestion that those covenants were introduced.511Dr. Lefroy
525 concurred with those hon. Gentlemen who deplored that Ministers had been urged into an expenditure by hon. Gentlemen opposite. Indeed, one of the happy effects of a Conservative opposition was, that extravagance was coincided in, and frugality opposed. He was glad that his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny had called the attention of the House to the predominance of the landed interest in its exemption from taxation. In no other European nation did that distinction exist, for in almost every other country there was a land tax, and instead of taxing labour and commerce, they taxed superfluous luxuries. Originally the principle revenues of England were derived from land and malt; the wars of William 3rd., and all the great victories of Marlborough, were supported principally by a tax on
525Mr. Ewart
 said, the proviso referred to was a mistake.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
551550 said, he should detain the House for a very short time, because hon. Gentlemen, in the course of the present debate, had
551550The Chancellor of the Exchequer
517 was understood to complain of the great inconvenience which would ensue from raising a discussion on this case, on the application of interested parties, whilst negotiations were pending on it between the government of America and the British Government. He could not pretend to say what representations had been made by the memorialists to the late President of the Board of Trade, who was now in Canada; but, as far as the Treasury was concerned, he could declare that no such representations as the right hon. Gentleman had intimated had been made to any officer of that department. To the question which had been raised by the right hon. Gentlemen opposite, he should not give any reply, for it was a question for the American Government to raise, which had not pressed it. The great object, when the slave trade was abolished, had been to protect and encourage the produce of the western coast of Africa, in order to allure the natives from their sanguinary feuds to habits of peace, order, and civilization. The rice might not be grown in our settlements but if it were imported from the neighbouring districts into our settlements, and thence into England, it was liable to the lower duty only. He trusted, that the case would not be pressed in a tone which would compel the Legislature to go back to our former prohibition, and which would prevent the small boon that had been given to these unfortunate Africans from being continued to them. The American government had certainly made a representation to our Government upon the subject,
517The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 admitted that no argumentative answer had been given to them, and further, he admitted, that that argumentative answer had been advisedly refused. He did not conceive it to be consistent with his duty to argue the construction of a public treaty with individual parties, however influential or respectable they might be.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
prima facie506505" I have been offered the appointment of a Lord of the Treasury, and, from the manner in which the offer has been made, I have felt it my duty to accept it.""I have accepted the offer, not only as a distinction to myself, but as a compliment to those whom I represent. The moment, therefore, the debate on the Irish Registration Bill is over, I shall present myself to you.""Gentlemen, I have been offered the appointment of a Lord of the Treasury, and from the manner in which the offer was made, I have felt it my duty to accept it. It is therefore necessary that I should appeal to you for your approval of the step which I have resolved to take,": Sir, I beg leave to call the attention of the House to a matter deeply affecting the privileges of the House. A new writ was moved for yesterday in the room of Mr. Horsman, late Member for Cockermouth, on the ground that the hon. and learned Gentleman had accepted the situation of a Lord of the Treasury. I hold in my hand an address to the electors and non-electors of Cockermouth, signed "Edward Horsman," and dated "London, May the 18th."Sir, I wish to call the attention of the House to the terms of that address. It commences as follows:—
prima facie506505" I have been offered the appointment of a Lord of the Treasury, and, from the manner in which the offer has been made, I have felt it my duty to accept it.""I have accepted the offer, not only as a distinction to myself, but as a compliment to those whom I represent. The moment, therefore, the debate on the Irish Registration Bill is over, I shall present myself to you.""Gentlemen, I have been offered the appointment of a Lord of the Treasury, and from the manner in which the offer was made, I have felt it my duty to accept it. It is therefore necessary that I should appeal to you for your approval of the step which I have resolved to take,"Sir G. Clerk said
 considered the measure to be one which would operate unfairly to some classes of the community. He knew very well that the Chancellor of the Exchequer must raise money when there was a deficiency in the revenue by some means or other. Taxation had been compared to physic, and it seemed to him that the right hon. Gentleman did not care how he administered the dose, so long as he could get it down his patients' throats. He agreed, however, with the general principle of the proposition. He felt bound, not only in justice to his constituency, but to the community at large, to protest against the operation of the proposed increase on the window-tax; it was a tax most unjust and injurious, as well towards the inhabitants of the houses taxed, as towards the individuals who invested their capital in building.Captain Pechell
 said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had recommended to the House, in his budget, that which he had the best probability of carrying, but it was perfectly competent for every hon. Member to express his dissent from the principle of taxation upon which the Government had proceeded, and to say, that other means ought to be resorted to instead of those which must press severely upon the masses—upon those who were the least able to afford a diminution of their resources. He had received complaints from the town which he had the honour to represent, that there was a pressure upon industry such as had never been known. He had received complaints, not merely from individuals, but from whole trades, of the total impossibility of extricating themselves by any effort, or any amount of exertion, from the difficulties which they said the Corn-laws imposed upon them. He had no doubt that a substitute could be found for the budget proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, pressing as it did upon articles consumed by the great mass of the population, and with that feeling he should give his vote in favour of the proposition of his hon. Friend.Mr. Ward
 begged to contradict, from beginning to end, the statement of the learned Sergeant. So far from Mr. Tighe having any doubt of his decision, he still adhered to it. Not a single appeal had been lodged against them. He regretted that he had not with him a letter which he had received from Mr. Tighe, but he would be happy to afford the right hon. Gentleman, or the learned Sergeant, an opportunity of seeing it.Sir M. Chapman
 would give no opinion on the justice of this claim, for he had not examined it. He wished, however to call the attention of the House to one point. The right lion. Gentleman opposite seemed to consider that it rested with the United States whether they would wave their claim under the treaty in favour of their own subjects or not. Was that a construction which a merchant was justified in raising under a public treaty? The act said, that rice imported from the western coast of Africa should be liable to the less duty. Now, if a British merchant invested his capital in the United States, and imported rice in American vessels from the western coast of Africa, the question was, whether he was not entitled to the advantage of the treaty, even though the American government should consent to wave its claim under that treaty?Sir R. Peel
"God hath given the earth to the children Of men; and he, undoubtedly, in giving it to them, has given them what is abundantly sufficient for all their exigencies,—not a scanty, but a most liberal provision. The Author of our nature has written it strongly in that nature, and has promulgated the same thing in his word, that man shall eat his bread by his labour; and I am persuaded that no man, or combination of men, for their own profit, can, without great impiety, undertake to say that he shall not do so, and that they have any sort of right either to prevent the labour, or to withhold the bread."587ss586585584583582581"Mr. Secretary Peel exhorted the House to
581580"I cannot look at your proofs of declining trade; they are unsatisfactory, if they are just; but I have here that which is conclusive on the subject. I have in my hand a return of the exports to the whole world from this country; and I find, that during the last year, they have increased; therefore, there can be no distress,—therefore the trade of this country is extending to the different parts of the world."579"Then," said the right hon. Baronet, "see how I will deal with these arguments. In the first place, you complain that they disturb the monetary system of the country. Now, I will tell you, that the currency has been deranged before; and, upon such occasions, no person attributed that result to the operation of the Corn-laws. I say, further, that the currency has been deranged in the United States, and. that commercial embarrassment has occurred in France; and these results cannot have been owing to such a cause as you ascribe them to, in this country. Again, with respect to the fluctuations in the price, this argument would imply that other articles are steady in price. Now, I can prove that coffee has fluctuated in price as well as corn; and that is my answer to your argument, which would show that the
579578577576575574"It becomes his Majesty's Government, in the judgment of this committee, when a proposal for altering our Corn-laws is made to us by a foreign government, as a condition of something to be done or omitted by that go-
574"Assuming, then, that it will be agreeable to the British Government to learn that Prussia is disposed to conclude a treaty of reciprocity, the Court of Berlin has directed the undersigned to propose to his Excellency, Mr. Canning, to enter into negotiation for that purpose. It would be ready to engage to make no change in its existing system for a certain number of years, and specifically not to increase the duties of import on English merchandise. But, on the other hand, it expects that the British Government will allow the importation of Prussian corn, subject to such duties as shall not exclude the possibility of carrying on that trade with a reasonable profit, and that it will grant greater facilities than it does at present to the importation of timber coming from the ports of Prussia. As the produce of English industry finds a very extensive market in the Prussian monarchy, whilst, on the other hand, Prussia can only import into England the produce of its soil, and principally corn and wood, it is evident that it is only by granting facilities to the importation of these two articles that it is possible to establish the relations between the two countries on a footing of reciprocity."57310,07054,80421061810
10,07054,804210618103,31448,1083731807
3,31448,108373180744,7941601804
44,794160180411,17155,90531181801
11,17155,90531181801ddss
ddsssExcess of Deaths above those of the year 1804, when wheat was 60sDeaths.Average Price of Wheat per Quarter.Years.
sExcess of Deaths above those of the year 1804, when wheat was 60sDeaths.Average Price of Wheat per Quarter.Years.A Return of the Number of Deaths in seven of the manufacturing districts of England, at four different periods, with the average Price of Wheat per quarter, at each period.
A Return of the Number of Deaths in seven of the manufacturing districts of England, at four different periods, with the average Price of Wheat per quarter, at each period.
10,07054,80421061810
10,07054,804210618103,31448,1083731807
3,31448,108373180744,7941601804
44,794160180411,17155,90531181801
11,17155,90531181801ddss
ddsssExcess of Deaths above those of the year 1804, when wheat was 60sDeaths.Average Price of Wheat per Quarter.Years.
sExcess of Deaths above those of the year 1804, when wheat was 60sDeaths.Average Price of Wheat per Quarter.Years.A Return of the Number of Deaths in seven of the manufacturing districts of England, at four different periods, with the average Price of Wheat per quarter, at each period.
A Return of the Number of Deaths in seven of the manufacturing districts of England, at four different periods, with the average Price of Wheat per quarter, at each period.572571"I take the liberty of addressing you on the necessity of cheap bread for our artisans and their families. As a medical man, I feel, that
571570Burrellminimumds569ssdssss.Annals of Agriculture"I should find it difficult to resist the conclusion that, however the labourer has derived benefit from the cheapness of manufactured commodities and the inventions of machinery, he is much inferior in ability to support a family than his ancestors were three or four centuries ago. I know not why some, here, suppose meat was a luxury seldom attained by a labourer; doubtless he could have procured as much as he pleased, but from the greater cheapness of cattle, it seems to follow that a more considerable portion of his diet consisted of animal food than at present. It was remarked by Sir J. Fortescue, that he thought the English lived far more on animal food than their neighbours the French, and it was natural to ascribe their superior courage to that circumstance."568567566565Hear564: I believe that the House is well aware that in consequence of the singular course which it thought proper to adopt with regard to the last motion on the Corn-laws, it has now become my duty again to propose the question for its consideration; and I hope the House will feel that if that course was unsatisfactory to the public, offensive to those interested in the discussion, and almost cruel to that much larger number who refer their recent sufferings to the operation of this law—that neither has it been attended by any convenience or
"God hath given the earth to the children Of men; and he, undoubtedly, in giving it to them, has given them what is abundantly sufficient for all their exigencies,—not a scanty, but a most liberal provision. The Author of our nature has written it strongly in that nature, and has promulgated the same thing in his word, that man shall eat his bread by his labour; and I am persuaded that no man, or combination of men, for their own profit, can, without great impiety, undertake to say that he shall not do so, and that they have any sort of right either to prevent the labour, or to withhold the bread."587ss586585584583582581"Mr. Secretary Peel exhorted the House to
581580"I cannot look at your proofs of declining trade; they are unsatisfactory, if they are just; but I have here that which is conclusive on the subject. I have in my hand a return of the exports to the whole world from this country; and I find, that during the last year, they have increased; therefore, there can be no distress,—therefore the trade of this country is extending to the different parts of the world."579"Then," said the right hon. Baronet, "see how I will deal with these arguments. In the first place, you complain that they disturb the monetary system of the country. Now, I will tell you, that the currency has been deranged before; and, upon such occasions, no person attributed that result to the operation of the Corn-laws. I say, further, that the currency has been deranged in the United States, and. that commercial embarrassment has occurred in France; and these results cannot have been owing to such a cause as you ascribe them to, in this country. Again, with respect to the fluctuations in the price, this argument would imply that other articles are steady in price. Now, I can prove that coffee has fluctuated in price as well as corn; and that is my answer to your argument, which would show that the
579578577576575574"It becomes his Majesty's Government, in the judgment of this committee, when a proposal for altering our Corn-laws is made to us by a foreign government, as a condition of something to be done or omitted by that go-
574"Assuming, then, that it will be agreeable to the British Government to learn that Prussia is disposed to conclude a treaty of reciprocity, the Court of Berlin has directed the undersigned to propose to his Excellency, Mr. Canning, to enter into negotiation for that purpose. It would be ready to engage to make no change in its existing system for a certain number of years, and specifically not to increase the duties of import on English merchandise. But, on the other hand, it expects that the British Government will allow the importation of Prussian corn, subject to such duties as shall not exclude the possibility of carrying on that trade with a reasonable profit, and that it will grant greater facilities than it does at present to the importation of timber coming from the ports of Prussia. As the produce of English industry finds a very extensive market in the Prussian monarchy, whilst, on the other hand, Prussia can only import into England the produce of its soil, and principally corn and wood, it is evident that it is only by granting facilities to the importation of these two articles that it is possible to establish the relations between the two countries on a footing of reciprocity."57310,07054,80421061810
10,07054,804210618103,31448,1083731807
3,31448,108373180744,7941601804
44,794160180411,17155,90531181801
11,17155,90531181801ddss
ddsssExcess of Deaths above those of the year 1804, when wheat was 60sDeaths.Average Price of Wheat per Quarter.Years.
sExcess of Deaths above those of the year 1804, when wheat was 60sDeaths.Average Price of Wheat per Quarter.Years.A Return of the Number of Deaths in seven of the manufacturing districts of England, at four different periods, with the average Price of Wheat per quarter, at each period.
A Return of the Number of Deaths in seven of the manufacturing districts of England, at four different periods, with the average Price of Wheat per quarter, at each period.
10,07054,80421061810
10,07054,804210618103,31448,1083731807
3,31448,108373180744,7941601804
44,794160180411,17155,90531181801
11,17155,90531181801ddss
ddsssExcess of Deaths above those of the year 1804, when wheat was 60sDeaths.Average Price of Wheat per Quarter.Years.
sExcess of Deaths above those of the year 1804, when wheat was 60sDeaths.Average Price of Wheat per Quarter.Years.A Return of the Number of Deaths in seven of the manufacturing districts of England, at four different periods, with the average Price of Wheat per quarter, at each period.
A Return of the Number of Deaths in seven of the manufacturing districts of England, at four different periods, with the average Price of Wheat per quarter, at each period.572571"I take the liberty of addressing you on the necessity of cheap bread for our artisans and their families. As a medical man, I feel, that
571570Burrellminimumds569ssdssss.Annals of Agriculture"I should find it difficult to resist the conclusion that, however the labourer has derived benefit from the cheapness of manufactured commodities and the inventions of machinery, he is much inferior in ability to support a family than his ancestors were three or four centuries ago. I know not why some, here, suppose meat was a luxury seldom attained by a labourer; doubtless he could have procured as much as he pleased, but from the greater cheapness of cattle, it seems to follow that a more considerable portion of his diet consisted of animal food than at present. It was remarked by Sir J. Fortescue, that he thought the English lived far more on animal food than their neighbours the French, and it was natural to ascribe their superior courage to that circumstance."568567566565Hear564Mr. Villiers
610609ldd.dsds608s had always been an advocate for agriculture and everything connected with it, and though he felt that the question had been sufficiently debated, he wished to make a few observations on the subject. He was pleased at the temperate manner in which the question had been hitherto discussed in that House, forming such a contrast to the violent and offensive manner in which the discussion was carried on out of doors—a manner which did the cause of those who employed it little good, and the adverse one little harm. In reference to the different propositions which had been offered, he must oppose them. As to the proposition of the hon. Member for Cambridge, he felt it his duty to give it his opposition. In reference to the proposal of a fixed duty, which had been so temperately and so ably made by an hon. Member, he was of opinion that the present system was preferable: a fixed duty was always either too high or too low. In regard to the proposal of the hon. Member for Taunton, it would be a low duty when the price of corn was low, and no duty when corn was high, and comprised the evils of other systems without their benefits. If there was a fault in the present Corn-law, it was that after the price reached 70610609ldd.dsds608sMr. G. Heathcote
621620sssss619618617 was fully aware that this subject had been so ably treated by hon. Gentlemen on either side of the House upon a former occasion, that it would be quite impossible to bring any new arguments to bear upon it; yet, representing
621620sssss619618617Mr. Baillie
622 observed, that after the numerous pamphlets that had been published, and the array of speeches that had been made upon the subject of the Corn-laws, it was not easy to say any thing new. He had heard nothing new that evening, and he should certainly make no attempt to advance any thing that should be novel. He should not have risen at all, had he not felt it necessary to make some explanation of the vote he intended to give in favour of the motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. While he gave that vote, he was anxious to guard himself against being thought to adopt the whole of the hon. Mover's opinions, and being supposed to give a vote in favour of the total, imme-
622Mr. James
639638 in reply, observed, that it was an agreeable surprise to him to hear the final declaration of the hon. Member who had just sat down, for he had otherwise been about to congratulate hon. Members opposite on the accession to their strength in the person of the hon. Member for Birmingham. Giving, as he had done, all the attention in his power to that hon. Member, he had been utterly unable to know the hon. Member's meaning. He had, however, expected from that quarter some confusion being introduced into the present discussion, re-
639638Mr. Villiers
ShawJ. Graham647646645ls rose, pursuant to notice, to ask for leave to bring in a bill for the better regulation of voters in Ireland. In doing so he would shortly call the attention of the House to those circumstances connected with the Irish system of registration, which appeared to him to have led to what had been a subject of complaint both in the present and former Sessions of Parliament. The House was aware, that there had for a long time existed in Ireland a system of registration of the elective franchise. He believed, that the first appearance of that mode of proceeding was to be found so far back as the year 1727. Since that time various provisions had been made, both by the Irish and Imperial Parliaments, for regulating the registration of the franchise, and for providing a means by which the right of the voter might be tested on going to the poll. In 1829, when the qualification was raised from 40ShawJ. Graham647646645lsMr. Pigot
"That the House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House to take into consideration the act of the 9th of George 4th, regulating the importation of foreign corn, with a view to the reduction of the average prices specified in the table to that act annexed, according to which the respective duties are imposed." did not rise to repeat his former speech. He only wished to say, in explanation of what he had stated on a former occasion, that he had not founded his arguments for the proposal he had made on the ground of the heavy taxes which were imposed on land. He had not said anything in regard to these taxes, and he had only alluded to the taxes on the production of corn. He had said nothing of the land-tax because the land-tax was not included in those which pressed on the production of corn, and which increased with increased production and decreased with diminished growth. He should not trouble the House with any further observations, and should content himself with moving, by way of amendment on the motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton,
"That the House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House to take into consideration the act of the 9th of George 4th, regulating the importation of foreign corn, with a view to the reduction of the average prices specified in the table to that act annexed, according to which the respective duties are imposed."Mr. Pryme
636635634633sssss632 assured the House that he was extremely unwilling to address them upon a subject which had been already so fully discussed, not only in the present but in former Sessions. Still, as the Government had been attacked in the course of the present debate, he felt it necessary to address a few words to the House upon the subject. An hon. Member had complained, that the Government had not brought forward a proposition upon the subject. Now, he thought that the conduct of the Government had been regulated by a due regard to the national interests. It was his opinion, that if upon a question of this kind there was a general disposition to have an alteration of the law, and a general wish to have the question settled by some new measure of legislation, but that there was a diversity of opinion as to the measure that ought to be adopted, the Government might safely step in and frame such a measure as might be most conducive to the national interests, and propose it for the adoption of Parliament, thereby securing a greater support for it than the measure of any individual Member could obtain. Such, however, was not the position of the question of the Corn-laws. There were Members on both sides of the House constituting a considerable majority, who thought that there ought not to be any alteration of the present laws. That being the case, the introduction of a measure by the Government would have been only adding to all the arguments and prejudices which influenced the votes and opinions of Members on the subject, and giving rise to party strife and contention, thereby not promoting but retarding the settlement of the question. The Government had not in the present or former debates interposed that obstacle. Judging, however, front the course of
636635634633sssss632Lord John Russell
611 was opposed to the motion, but rose principally for the purpose of saying that the hon. Member opposite was in error with respect to the petitions which he had presented upon this subject. Amongst thousands of signatures there were only six names of persons under the age of twenty-
611Mr. Packe
592591590s589588 rose to second the motion. He was at all times unwilling to trespass on the attention of the House, and he felt particularly so after the able speech of his hon. Friend. The question, however, was of so much importance, that he was induced to trouble the House with a few observations. His hon. Friend had justly observed, that hon. Gentlemen on the other side seemed disposed to settle the question by phrases instead of arguments; one of these phrases was, "protection to agriculture," as if protection to agriculture was a species of property in the possession of the landed interest, which could be conferred as a boon upon landlords
592591590s589588Mr. Strutt
637 said, that this was a question involving the interests of millions of the poorer classes, and which therefore deserved the most serious attention. He had listened to the arguments which had been advanced on both sides of the House, both on that and on a previous occasion when this subject was under consideration, and after much reflection he had come to the conclusion that the repeal of the Corn-laws would not effect the good which some seemed willing to suppose. The high price of corn in this country was not altogether a loss to the nation. It was a rule with him never to take a theoretical view of any question if he could take a practical one, and he had found on examination that the price of corn and the rate of wages had for a long time been in unison, rising and falling together. If the Corn-laws were repealed,
637Mr. Muntz
dssdsss628**dss said, with regard to the manner in which this debate had been disposed of on the last occasion, he believed that every one in the House knew that the hon. Member for Bridport had completely outwitted himself—although with great tact he had afterwards claimed credit for it as a triumph.—He was willing to rest his support of the Corn-laws upon the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, which was unanswered and unanswerable—and had only been approached by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton with misrepresentation.—The hon. Member for Wolverhampton's speech on this occasion had been marked by a tone far less commendable than on former occasions. It was unjust in the hon. Member to speak of the supporters of the Corn-laws, as though they were indifferent to the sufferings of the people. Bit it could not be doubted that the rate of wages depended not upon the price of food, but upon the demand for labour, and hence the labouring population were better off when food was high than when it was low. In Lincolnshire the wages were from 10dssdsss628**dssMr. Handley
*627s"One of his reasons for wishing to see an alteration in the present system of our Corn-laws was, that the continuance of it would endanger the currency. There had been such an alteration in the currency since the Corn-laws were first introduced, that it was quite impossible to impute inconsistency to any man who, in 1827, condemned the continuance of the measure which he had supported in 1815. The Bank of England having returned to cash payments, and being obliged to pay in gold, nothing would be more likely to injure that measure, to cause a run upon the Bank, and to send gold out of the country, than the system proposed by the hon. Gentlemen who differed from him and his colleagues upon this question. One hon. Friend of his had mentioned the fact, that he had seen foreign ships receive gold for their corn, and then leave this country in ballast; and this, too, at a period when the importation of corn was limited. But if this took place under a limited importation, let hon. Members consider how much more extensive it would be if, under the present system, corn rose to 80*627s626 would vote for going into Committee, because he believed that to be an intermediate step, which was absolutely requisite before the measure of repeal was adopted. He found, too, that such had been the opinion of Mr. Huskisson. That lamented gentleman only a few weeks before his death, declared, that he believed that the first step towards the total repeal of the Corn-laws would be the adoption of a moderate fixed duty, and that that would lead at no very distant period to the adoption of the measure of their total repeal, and convinced as he was of the truth of this argument, he at once declared his intention to vote in favour of the motion. Rather than have no change at all, he should vote for a fixed duty, although he must say that he had rather record that vote, in favour of a total abolition of the tax. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, had said upon a former occasion, that no one had ever contended that the currency was affected exclusively by the sudden demand for corn. There could be no doubt that no such circumstance could produce such an effect alone. The right hon. Baronet had referred to the authority of Mr. Jones Lloyd upon this subject, and to the arguments used by him in refutation of those employed at the Chamber of Commerce at Manchester. Referring to the same authority, he found that Mr. Jones Lloyd had accounted for the effect produced upon the currency in 1839 by these means. He said, that there appeared to him to be every reasonable ground for believing that the cur-
*627s"One of his reasons for wishing to see an alteration in the present system of our Corn-laws was, that the continuance of it would endanger the currency. There had been such an alteration in the currency since the Corn-laws were first introduced, that it was quite impossible to impute inconsistency to any man who, in 1827, condemned the continuance of the measure which he had supported in 1815. The Bank of England having returned to cash payments, and being obliged to pay in gold, nothing would be more likely to injure that measure, to cause a run upon the Bank, and to send gold out of the country, than the system proposed by the hon. Gentlemen who differed from him and his colleagues upon this question. One hon. Friend of his had mentioned the fact, that he had seen foreign ships receive gold for their corn, and then leave this country in ballast; and this, too, at a period when the importation of corn was limited. But if this took place under a limited importation, let hon. Members consider how much more extensive it would be if, under the present system, corn rose to 80*627s626Mr. Warburton
596595libitumsdad valorem594d593 said, that in rising to oppose the motion of the hon. Member for
596595libitumsdad valorem594d593Sir C. Burrell
s616sssdss615sdss614sdss613sdsdssss612 said, the hon. Member for Lincolnshire had placed the question on very fair grounds, by stating his readiness to agree to the removal of all protection to agriculture, if all protections were taken off trade and manufactures; but if it depended upon the readiness of the manufacturers to consent to give up the various duties by which it was supposed they were benefitted, the advocates of the Corn-laws would be very soon called on to fulfil the condition the hon. Member had suggested—namely, to give up the Corn-laws. But the hon. Member had made a very erroneous statement when he said that the manufacturing interest had not come forward with any specific proposition to have the protection of manufactures removed, for there was no class of manufacturers that had not in the course of this or preceding years presented petitions to this House, or memorials to the Board of Trade, expressing a desire to have all grounds of foreign commercial jealousy removed, by repealing all protecting duties. On this point he could speak with certainty, with regard to the manufacturers and merchants of Dundee, for he had presented several petitions and memorials declaring their readiness to agree to the principles of free trade being generally acted upon. The hon. Member for Lincolnshire had referred to the high duties on foreign linens, to illustrate the right the agriculturists had to similar protection; but he could say, that his constituents, who carried on the linen manufacture more extensively than any other manufacturers, placed no value on these high duties, and were ready to consent to their being taken off. So, with regard to the old linen bounties, the greater part of these were received by the merchants of Dundee; but there was no point on which so much unanimity prevailed as with regard to the benefit the linen trade had derived from the repeal of these bounties. In addressing the House upon the motion immediately before it, he would call upon those hon. Members who were so strenuous in supporting the Corn-laws to look more accurately into the facts of the case. Those hon. Members were satisfied in going on repeating arguments which might
s616sssdss615sdss614sdss613sdsdssss612Sir Henry Parnell
607606Hear.605604603602601600599ssssss598Cheers from Sir Charles Burrell."597 could assure hon. Members that he never felt so much his incompetency to express himself in that House, and in that way which would be deserving of its attention, as upon the present occasion; and if he did approach this question, he could assure hon. Members it was under the deep sense of its importance in relation to those whom he had the honour to represent. It was, then, a most painful sense of its importance which induced him to depart from that course, which was the most general course observed by him in that House. With respect to the speech that had been made by the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, he should have occasion but to trouble the House with a very few observations—and especially with regard to that advice which the hon. Baronet had so panegyrised as coming from that most eminent capitalist, Mr. Rothschild. He thought he could discover a little more of interest, and a little more of sagacity, than appeared to have occurred to the hon. Baronet, in that advice—that there was something not quite so generous, something not quite so disinterested, in what that Gentleman expressed in his deep feeling for the landed interest and the general interest of the country. Mr. Rothschild was a gentleman of most honourable character, but he was also most sagacious, and had a very keen perception of that which was for his advantage—he was most diligent and most active in whatever pursuit he was engaged, and he paid keen attention to the prosecution of that which might aid in increasing the large fortune he had amassed. Mr. Rothschild knew very well what might happen if those revulsions that he apprehended should take place, and what must be their consequence on their monetary system. He was a man whose perception was superior to that of most other men, and no man knew better than he did how to protect himself. No man could more acutely watch the progress of national changes—no man could more diligently mark the
607606Hear.605604603602601600599ssssss598Cheers from Sir Charles Burrell."597Mr. Easthope
631630629 requested the indulgence of the House to one not in the habit of frequently troubling it. On a former occasion he had been accused of prophesying, but he thought the statements which had been made that evening were more prophetic than anything he had ever uttered.—He had been present at a meeting of upwards of 5,000 operatives at Manchester—a meeting which few hon. Members had perhaps had it in their power to attend, and which he would not attempt to describe, since his hon. Friend, the Member for Wolverhampton, with all his power of language, had been able to convey but a faint idea of it. The feeling which pervaded that meeting was not confined to the operatives, but he believed was now spreading among the agricultural districts. It had so happened that two hon. Members for Lincoln had spoken in the course of the debate, and though they said, the subject was drawn to the dregs, they had nevertheless delivered speeches of some length. It was his misfortune during the debate of last year to have immediately preceded his hon. Friend who had just
631630629Mr. M. Phillips
625624623 agreed with some of the opinions expressed by the hon. Member who had just sat down, but could not arrive at the same conclusion as the hon. Member. He could not conceive, that the act of going into committee upon an occasion like the present, under the guidance of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, and with the expression of opinion that had fallen from the great majority of the hon. Members who had supported him, and without the assistance of some leading Member or some great party, would be fair, just, and honest towards the great interests at stake. He must admit, that it would be easier for him to vote for going into committee than against it. He should certainly have the support on that point of the larger part of his constituents. Therefore, it was not personally agreeable to him to take the course he was about to take; but as he still conceived, that the existing principle of protection ought to be continued to the agricultural interest, he was determined
625624623Viscount Sandon
 said, that it was a gross violation of the law to treat Mr. O'Connor in that way. Imprisonment did not imply torture, and really it would appear that this gentleman had been subjected to the greatest torture. He thought the hon. Member ought to take some further step.Mr. O'Connell
 was opposed to the principle of the measure, and he moved, that the House should go into Committee on the bill on that day six months.General Johnson
 thought that the bill would sanction great severity towards children. It would also strike a fatal blow at the trial by jury, and take it away in those cases where it was most wanted. He also objected to the punishment of whipping, as it was not stated how long, or with what instrument, or at whose discretion, it was to be inflicted. He therefore felt it his duty to second the amendment of the hon. and gallant Member.Sir G. Strickland
657 said, that the hon. Baronet was mistaken in his opinion as to the severity of the bill, and his objections
657Sir E. Wilmot
 would support the motion for going into committee, though he objected to the principles of the bill; and he did not see how any alteration could make it meet his views. These offenders would be tried in the absence of the public, in the absence of the press, and in the absence of the salutary check of the bar. There would, in fact, be nothing but hole-and-corner decisions. These circumstances, of themselves were sufficient to induce him to oppose the bill.Mr. J. Jervis
 said, that no one could be more opposed to the principle of the bill than he was, but he thought it would be unfair to the promoter of the bill, after the House had decided in favour of the principle of it, to refuse to allow it to go into Committee.Mr. Barneby
 thought it would be a mere waste of time to go into Committee upon a bill, to the whole of the clauses of which every hon. Member who had spoken, had expressed himself opposed.Colonel Wood
658 said he should vote against the committee. The object of the hon. Baronet seemed to be, to provide for the punishment of young offenders, and also to provide, after their conviction, for their improvement and reform; so far he was disposed to support the measure; but he must object to that part of the plan which placed the extent of the im-
658Sir E. Sugden
659 observed, the principle of the bill was, in his opinion, unobjectionable. He should, however, feel disposed to improve its various details. The object of the whole appeared to him to be the reconciliation of our different enactments upon the subject of felony by juvenile offenders. The principle of the act was, that when a child should be accused of felony, he should not be compelled to hold up his hand to the bar upon being arraigned, after the manner of a felon, and that the usual jury on such occasions should not be charged with his deliverance, but that his case should be subjected to a domestic tribunal, especially entitled to take cognizance of the offence. The more plausible objections to this bill and its principle were, that it had a positive tendency to abolish that birth-right of Britons—the trial by jury. There was not within those walls an individual, nor out of the profession, who had all along entertained a higher respect for the institution of trial by jury, but he would remind the House, that already the Legislature had departed from that principle in all its strictness; and had sanctioned, in cases of misdemeanor, the adjudication of the case by the magistracy at the sessions. The House ought to be informed of the glaring anomaly that subsisted in our enactments upon the subject of theft. As the law stood, if a boy stole apples from off the tree, it was merely a case of trespass; whereas, strange as it might appear, if he took the apples up from the ground within the orchard, the offence amounted to felony. Such a a state of the law was totally irreconcileable to common sense and sound reason, and calculated to bring its authority into disgrace. What he wished upon this subject was, to see adopted some summary
659The Attorney-General
 said, if the House were to suffer itself to be diverted from the serious consideration of the subject embodied in the bill before the House, they would ere long have reason to regret their imprudence. For his part he must acknowledge he felt a deep sense of gratitude to the hon. Baronet for the introduction of the bill under discussion.Mr. Pease
 said, the state of the law of England was such, that the merest child was liable to all the tedious forms of imprisonment, commitment, and trial, for stealing a few peats from a peat stack. Such a state of the law was a disgrace to the jurisdiction of the country.Mr. Aglionby
660 objected to that part of the bill before the House, which rendered it necessary that hereafter no petty sessions of the peace should be held for any purpose whatever within the walls of a public or of a private house. The bill would entail, in this respect, great expense upon the several counties, inasmuch as all such petty sessions must be held, even for the
660Mr. Benett
 said, such an amendment as that would do away with the principle of the bill; he could not support it.Mr. F. Maule
 was opposed to the bill, but he was more opposed to reducing juries, and he could not attempt to defeat the bill by a side wind. He must oppose the amendment.Mr. Darby
 was opposed to the reduction of the juries—he was a Conservative so far—but he would prefer a trial by six jurymen to no trial at all.Sir G. Strickland
 thought the words "in open court," ought to be added, because he decidedly objected to these decisions and convictions being had in private.Mr. Wakley
661 was sure the hon.
661Sir Eardley Wilmot
 had frequently seen persons turned out of court, and as the law was not defined on that point, he thought it would be advisable to insert these words.Sir George Strickland
 thought the suggestion of the hon. Member was calculated very much to embarrass the question. With respect to the amendment of the hon. Member for Cambridge, he certainly should object to a small jury of six—the law provided that they should either have a jury of twelve, or reject the jury altogether. He hoped the amendment would be withdrawn.Sir Edward Sugden
653 said, there was this view of the question which he wished to submit to the House. It was the duty of the judge to apportion the punishment to the crime, and he was the responsible person. Now they took away that power entirely from the judge, if by these prison regulations they left it in the hands of other parties to say whether the imprisonment should be mere restraint or actual torture; the judge was no longer the responsible party in such a case. He merely gave the duration of the punishment, and it was for the visiting justices to say whether the imprisonment was to be insufferable or not. He remembered hearing the Member for Southampton stating, that his experience of prison discipline was, that any man who came out of the prisons of England after two years' imprisonment had his health materially impaired and his life considerably shortened. At that time he really thought the hon. Member was mistaken, but he now believed that it was perfectly just. They had taken the punishment out of the hands of the judges and lodged it in that of the visiting justices. He did not know that it would be much better if left in the hands of the Government. It should be laid down and defined by the law so that the judges should in open court award the punishment due to any offence, and if the punishment were cruel it should be awarded before the bar and the country. There could be nothing so hideous as that treat-
653Mr. O'Connell
 thought it was not fair to throw on her Majesty's Government the responsibility of a transaction which rested entirely with the Judges, and the visiting magistrates. The magistrates were, he was convinced, men of honour; many of them he personally knew to be men of humanity also, but in this instance they certainly had made a great mistake—arising, perhaps, from their excessive zeal to carry out their new regulations. It was right, however, that a public investigation should take place, and he hoped that when the magistrates heard what had passed on the subject, they would, find an immediate remedy.Sir George Strickland
 felt some degree of hesitation in bringing the subject forward until the rules and regulations of York Castle were laid before the House. He begged to suggest to the noble Lord, that when those rules were laid on the Table, there should also be a return setting forth whether any, and what relaxation had taken place in respect to Mr. O'Connor; for the House and the public had a right to know if that Gentleman was still kept in the department of the felons, and was subjected to the same degrading severities with that class of criminals. Mr. O'Connor's offence had been similar to that of Mr. Stephens. Why should their punishments differ, merely because they had gone to different prisons?Mr. Aglionby
l.652651 said, two questions had been put to him—the one by the hon.
l.652651Mr. F. Maule
 said, he was glad the question had been asked, for an erroneous impression had gone abroad that Mr. O'Connor was so treated by direction of the Government. Now, he begged distinctly to state, that the Government had issued no orders whatever as to the manner in which the sentence should be carried into effect. If there had been any additional severity in the treatment of persons lately convicted of libels, it arose from the provisions of the act for regulating prison discipline. Orders had, however, been sent by the Secretary of State to the governor of York Castle, directing certain relaxations, but to that communication no answer had as yet been received.Mr. Fox Maule
 having subsequently moved the Order of the Day for a Committee on the Juvenile Offenders' Bill,Lord John Russell
650 believed that the treatment which political offenders at present underwent was owing to the state of the law upon the subject. A bill had been brought into that House several months ago for the purpose of changing that law. Which, however, had not yet passed the House of Lords; and he should say, that he did not feel that her Majesty's Ministers had shown that attention to the subject which it merited. It was his opinion, that under the existing state of that law, the Government could not interfere in the treatment to which political offenders might be subjected; but they had the power of removing them from one gaol to another, in which there might be a less severe discipline. He would ask, why her Majesty's Government should refuse to avail themselves of this power? At any
650Mr. Warburton
 was very much surprised to hear that the regulations of York Castle compelled persons imprisoned for political offences to associate with felons. He trusted that such regulations would be speedily put an end to, because such a mode of treatment, instead of acting as a punishment, would excite the indignation of the country.Mr. Briscoe
 said, they now understood from the Under-Secretary that the treatment Mr. O'Connor received was owing to prison discipline. He wished to ask whether two days before the removal of Mr. O'Connor certificates had not been sent to the Government from two eminent medical men, stating that he were removed to York Castle and so treated his life would be endangered, and whether these certificates had not been utterly neglected? It seemed to him that the Government exhibited a cool indifference and an utter disregard of the feelings of the community, and he could assure them that they were estranging those who were anxious to be their friends. He hoped some explanation of the matter would be given.Mr. Hume
 said, it did certainly appear to him objectionable, that persons convicted of the same offence should be treated differently. It could not, however, be expected that the Judge should be able to sentence with any equality or uniformity, when the prison discipline varied in different counties. This showed the necessity of establishing some uniform system of prison discipline throughout the country. Mr. O'Connor had been made to perform offices which he ought not to have been called upon to perform, and which to a person in his situation of life would be extremely irksome and injurious. He thought the punishment of this individual had been far more severe than he ought to have received.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
649 said, as it regarded
649Mr. T. Duncombe
648 presented a petition from a large meeting held in Bridworth, in Yorkshire, in which the petitioners stated that Mr. F. O'Connor had been sentenced to eighteen months' imprisonment in York Gaol, on a charge of publishing a seditious libel. The petitioners stated, that Mr. O'Connor was subjected there to the same treatment as burglars, felons, and reputed murderers. They
648Mr. T. S. Duncombe
 had seen the Marquess of Normanby on the subject that day, and be understood that some steps would be taken, but he believed that nothing short of removing Mr. O'Connor from the prison would effect the object.Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
656 wished to state, that on Mr. O'Connor's arrival at York Castle, he wrote a letter to him (Mr. Sergeant Talfourd), informing him that the gaoler had stated he would be treated as a felon, except that he might wear his own clothes. He returned an answer, that this statement was too vague for him to act
656Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
655 said, that in the medical certificates which had been first forwarded in regard to Mr. O'Connor, it was stated that he was suffering from inflamation of the lungs, and that he could not in consequence appear before the Court of Queen's Bench. Mr. O'Connor's health was so bad that he could not appear without danger before the court, and yet on the day after he had received his sentence, and after the exertions which he had made in his defence, he was removed under the authority of the marshal of the Queen's Bench Prison, and placed in York Castle in a cold cell, where there was only a stone to sit upon. Now suppose the inflamation under such treatment had returned, and that life had been destroyed, who would have been responsible for that loss of life. Would not the Government have been held guilty? If an inquest had been held upon the body, and if the jury had returned a verdict of manslaughter or of murder—and he had no doubt that the one or the other verdict would have been returned—against whom he would ask, would that verdict have been given? He hoped this case would be a warning to hon. Members on his (the Ministerial) side of the House, who had last year voted in a body in favour of all the restrictive clauses of the Prisons, Bill, while hon. Gentlemen opposite had voted in a body against them. For himself, he thought they ought to have a full report as to the state of the prisoners in York Castle, and they would then see who the persons were who were to blame for the severity which had been practised; they would then see whether the blame
655Mr. Wakley
 suggested that the hon. Member should take the earliest opportunity of putting the question he had referred to. The case was certainly a most harsh one.Sir E. Knatchbull
 hoped as soon as the matter was stated to the Government that they would interfere and prevent the necessity of Parliamentary inquiry.Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, that the hon. and learned Member had pointed out the real evil of the present system, which was the variable nature of the punishment, it being different, according to the different localities where it was enforced. There was a constantly shifting responsibility: even in the conveyance of Mr. F. O'Connor to York Castle, he was not conveyed under the authority of the Government or the Judge, but under that of the Marshal of the prison in which he happened to be. The Home Office did not consider itself responsible, nor could the visiting magistrates alter the rules by their own power. It was scarcely credible that a gentleman condemned for a political offence—a gentleman of acute feeling—one who had lately been a member of that House— should have been condemned to perform the most menial offices. That must have been far more wounding to Mr. O'Connor's feelings than anything which he could conceive. He hoped that the expression of opinion on this subject which had taken place—participated in, as he was sure it had been, by gentlemen opposite—would have its effect, and that the bill would speedily be passed for establishing a simple and plain remedy, which at least might prevent such cases for the future.Mr. Ward
 said, no individual in the country would more deeply regret than himself that the statements as to Mr. O'Connor's treatment should be found correct. He had felt it his duty to prosecute Mr. O'Connor for libels which he considered highly dangerous to the peace of society. If these statements were correct, certainly Mr. O'Connor had been treated with a severity not contemplated by the Judge. But he believed it would be found that the law did not justify this treatment, because the law made that distinction between felonies and misdemeanours, which the complaint was, had been overlooked in this case.The Attorney-General
667 said, this was not the first time that this question had been under the consideration of the House, though, perhaps, it had never before been brought forward in its present shape. Bills to carry into effect the views of the hon. Gentleman had been introduced on former occasions, and these bills had always been resisted, and chiefly on two grounds. The first of these grounds of objection was, that such a measure as was now proposed had an indirect bearing on the Corn-laws; and the second was, that no sufficient guarantee could be provided against smuggling. The last of those objections was the one which had operated on his mind to induce him to oppose those bills; but if it could be shown that fraud could be effectually prevented, he should not oppose any similar measure. For that reason he should not oppose the appointment of a Committee of inquiry, before which the whole subject could be fully investigated. If, however, the Committee was unfairly composed—if two-
667The Earl of Darlington
668 confessed that nothing had fallen from any hon. Member who had spoken on this motion to alter the opinions which he had formerly expressed upon this subject; and if the hon. Member who had last spoken, divided the House, he should certainly vote with him. The measure which was now proposed, Was not a new one. The proposal of the hon. Member who had brought forward the motion, had been tried before, and had been found a failure, as the greatest frauds were constantly committed; flour having been admitted into bond, and chalk having been taken out in return. It not unfrequently happened that ships took flour and bread on board, afterwards using them as ship's stores, and the bonds were not enforced. He would have this, as well as every other portion of the system inquired into. The strongest possible feeling prevailed amongst the agricul-
668Mr. G. Heathcole
 said, that many hon. Gentlemen who had voted for the second reading of the bill of the hon. Member for Dartmouth, had also voted for the Speaker leaving the chair to go into committee on that bill, because they believed the measure to be harmless as regarded the Corn-laws, while they thought it would conduce to the advantage of the shipping interest, so that the hon. Member for Bridport, was not quite justified in the accusation he had brought forward against all those who had supported the second reading of that bill. He hoped the House would allow an inquiry to be gone into, because he was sure the measure would be found to be perfectly harmless as regarded the landed interest.Colonel Wood
674 wished to make an observation, in consequence of his hon. Friend, the Member for Hull, having revealed a private communication that had taken place between them. His hon. Friend certainly told him that his intention was to constitute the committee entirely of country gentlemen; but he had referred to what had taken place between them, with a view of unduly influencing the judgment of the House at his expense. His hon. Friend had recommended his motion, on the ground that he had said the refusal of the motion would throw odium on the other side. That disclosure was not correct. The only question between him and his hon. Friend was as to the time; and he had recommended the motion of his hon. Friend to be brought on after the House had rejected the motion for a committee on the Corn-laws, which they were sure to do, as it was very unpopular. His hon. Friend then said, "Oh, I am sure to carry it, for Lord this and Lord that, and Sir Charles the other, have promised me their support." All that he had said was, that he did not consider the objection was as to the details, but as to meddling; with the
674Mr. Villiers
678 hoped that the noble Lord's bill would contain a strict definition of bribery, for during the many years he had had the honour of a seat in that.
678Colonel Sibthorpe
 said, that if the provisions of the bill were applied to counties, one halt of the electors would be disfranchised. A different measure, therefore, should be introduced for counties. Some electors, working men, came ten or fifteen miles to poll, and it was absurd to say that they should not have refreshment. If that were prohibited, the electors would decline to register, he had no doubt. He trusted, therefore, that some mode of legalizing reasonable refreshment would be adopted for counties. If no other was propounded, he would take the liberty of suggesting to the noble Lord, that the sheriffs should have the power of ordering refreshments for the voters and charging it to the candidate. If something of that kind were not done, the consequences in counties would be deeply injurious.Colonel Wood
 did not wish to oppose the motion, but he warned the House that they should be careful in tampering with existing law.Mr. Goulburn
 thought there was some danger by the proposed legislation of throwing a doubt on the validity of past marriages.Mr. Shaw
 assured the right hon. Gentleman there was not the least ground for any such alarm.Dr. Lushington
 said, that after what had fallen from his right hon. Friend, there could be no doubt upon the question raised by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. The words of the act were to the effect that after a marriage had been solemnized, it should not be necessary to give proof of residence. With respect to the bill proposed to be introduced by the hon. Member, he conceived there could be no objections at the present stage. He believed the case to be as the hon. Gentleman had stated, and that for some time after the act had passed, it was supposed that the law was actually as the hon. Gentleman now proposed to make it. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman opposite in what he had said with respect to the validity of marriages, and trusted that the hon. Gentleman would consider well the definition of the word "near," whether it might not be taken to mean places within a certain distance. It appeared necessary that some limits should be fixed.Lord John Russell
690l.l.l.l.689 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to remove doubts with respect to the qualification of voters in Ireland for the election of Members to serve in Parliament, and to create a tribunal of appeal. The objects of the bill were; first, to ascertain and settle the law as to tenements to which the Irish Reform Act had annexed the franchise; and next, to assimilate it to a considerable extent to the law of this country. Doubts had arisen very soon after the passing of the Reform Act, which rendered it indispensable that the law should be settled. Differences of opinion had arisen among the originators of the law, and among those whose duty it was to carry that par-
690l.l.l.l.689Mr. Pigot
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to direct that there be laid before tins House copies of all communications from British merchants, addressed to the Board of Control, or the Foreign Office, on the subject of the British trade with Java, with the answers to them, from the year 1832 to the year 1839 inclusive. Copies of any communications on the same subject from the Foreign Office to the Board of Control, and from the Board of Control to the directors of the East India Company, with the answers during the same period. Copies of any communications from British merchants, or from the authorities in Singapore, or elsewhere, addressed to the Foreign Office, on the subject of any interference with British or native trade to the island of Sumatra, or throughout the Eastern Archipelago."685l.l.l.l.l.684683ad valorem rose to call the attention of the Secretary for Foreign Affairs to the state of the question as to the replacement of the trade with Java on a proper footing, and for the better understanding of which he would, in conclusion, move, that all the papers connected therewith should be laid before the House. Previous to 1824, the Dutch government had been in the habit of laying on heavy "That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to direct that there be laid before tins House copies of all communications from British merchants, addressed to the Board of Control, or the Foreign Office, on the subject of the British trade with Java, with the answers to them, from the year 1832 to the year 1839 inclusive. Copies of any communications on the same subject from the Foreign Office to the Board of Control, and from the Board of Control to the directors of the East India Company, with the answers during the same period. Copies of any communications from British merchants, or from the authorities in Singapore, or elsewhere, addressed to the Foreign Office, on the subject of any interference with British or native trade to the island of Sumatra, or throughout the Eastern Archipelago."685l.l.l.l.l.684683ad valoremMr. Colquhoun
693 regretted to find that the qualification for voting was still to be left depending on opinion and not on fact. Whichever form of oath the Solicitor-general adopted, still the vexatious proceedings consequent on the proof would be left unremedied. Proof on oath of value would still be given—still to be met by proof on oath of the contrary. Landlords would still be arrayed against their tenantry, and the tenantry against their landlords. Why not, now that the country has been placed under the Poor-law Act, adopt some standard of qualification which should be a fact not capable of contradiction? It would be a boon to the country, which he hoped might originate with his hon. Friend, the Solicitor-General, if some measure were introduced, which should make the amount at which every man was rated, or the valuation of his property under the Poor-law Act, the standard of qualification, instead of the
693Sir Denham Norreys
 doubted whether the hon. Member for Coleraine had read the evidence given before the fictitious votes' committee; for questions were there put by Mr. Sergeant Curry, which showed how easy the net value, after payment of the tenant's expenses, could be ascertained. For himself, he should be glad if the suggestion of the hon. Member for Mallow were adopted, and some certain test of value established.Mr. M. J. O'Connell
v.701 remarked that the hon. and learned Member had asserted, with great confidence, that there was no doubt about the law, but the very case to which he had referred afforded the most remarkable illustration of the doubt and difficulties of the law that it was possible to conceive. It occurred thus: a person appealed against a decision to the Chief Justice. The Chief Justice refused to put the oath which the Reform Act permitted to be put to the jury on the appeal, but directed the jury to act as if the oath had been put. Subsequently another judge in another case put the oath. The matter came subsequently before the Court of Queen's Bench. The Chief Justice was pressed with his own opinion on one side, and the practice of his fellows on the other; what was the decision that was come to? not the decision of ten to two, as to the solvent tenant? It was no such question. The question was whether the oath ought to be put. The four judges of the Court of Queen's Bench were unanimous, and one of the judges of the Court of Exchequer agreed with them, and the consequence was, that there was a division of five to seven to settle that one question; but on the next—whether the Chief Justice was right in directing the jury to act as if the oath had been put— three of the very judges who had given their opinion that the oath ought not to have been put on the second question, joined in deciding that the jury ought to act as if the oath had been put. Could he possibly point out a greater instance of the doubt and difficulty of the law? If three of the judges, who had declared with the minority on the one point, and with the majority on the other, surely two judges, of as high character as any on the bench, might be allowed to maintain their own opinions of what was the law. Reference had been made to the practice of reserving points of law in Crown cases in England; far be it from him 1o dispute a practice which time had sanctioned in England; but he would appeal to the learned Gentleman to state any authority for a similar reference to the judges in Ireland upon questions of the franchise. The Reform Act made a single judge the party by whom the appeal was to be decided, and he would be glad if the learned Gentleman would tell him where the Reform Act gave any authority for a reference to the twelve
v.701Mr. Pigot
706l.705704***703"In answer to the first question, we are all of opinion that the words 'a Protestant clergy'
***703702 said, that in bringing before the House the question of the Clergy Reserves of Canada, he did not think it necessary to explain the various evils which had been produced in that place, owing to the unsettled state of the colony, or to the neglect which had been exhibited with regard to the lands reserved under the act of 1791, or the disputes which had arisen owing to the state of affairs in the colony. These circumstances were familiar to the House, owing to the discussions which had arisen in the course of the last Session of Parliament, and the correspondence which had been laid before the House. The only explanation, which he thought it would be necessary for him to give, was with regard to the present state of the question, in relation to the bill which he now proposed to introduce. The Governor-general of Canada, following the general instruction which he had received, thought it most desirable that a bill should be passed by the Legislature of Upper Canada, in reference to this subject, before the Legislature of the United Kingdom should consider it. It was found that while the strongest objections were entertained by one party to anything which did not give these funds to the purposes of education generally, on
706l.705704***703"In answer to the first question, we are all of opinion that the words 'a Protestant clergy'
***703702Lord J. Russell
707 answered in the affirmative. One-fourth of the amount was to go to the Church of England, one-fourth to the Church of Scotland, and the remainder to those denominations which had
707Lord John Russell
 remarked, that there could be no doubt, that this fund was not intended for the Roman Catholic clergy, but this was not like a fund which had been regularly appropriated, for a great portion of this land was wild, and not useful for any purpose whatever. It was acting differently from the intention of the act of 1791. That act had not been successful, although, no doubt, it had been passed with a good and pious intention. But it was as competent for the House at this day to make the alteration proposed, as it would have been for the Legislature then to alter their own act.Lord John Russell
 stated, that the Crown would not have been advised to give the royal assent to the act, as the judges had given their opinion that the Legislature of Upper Canada had exceeded their authority. They did not now propose to explain the act of 1791; but were proposing new enactments as to the disposal of the clergy reserves. As to the question which the right hon. Gentleman asked, he begged to say that a proposition had been made as to regulating the sums to be appropriated to Roman Catholics, with others, that a census should be taken of the different numbers of religious denominations. To that he thought there was very great objection. It could not be supposed, that the Wesleyan Methodists were more numerous than the Roman Catholics; but all that was now proposed was, that the Roman Catholics should not be excluded.Lord John Russell
695l.l.694 had asked the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Litton), who spoke immediately after his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Pigot), to read the questions which had been put by Chief Justice Bushe to Chief Justice Denman, because he wished to know exactly what it was to which Lord Denman had replied. He gathered from the letter read by the hon. and learned Gentleman that Chief Justice Bushe asked Chief Justice Denman two questions—first, what was the course of the judges in England with respect to points reserved in Crown cases and criminal matters upon circuit? and secondly, what was the course in cases of appeal from the assistant-barristers? Now, with regard to the first of these questions, Lord Denman having consulted the judges, gave a very positive answer, which accorded with one lately given by Chief Justice Tindal. But with regard to the question of appeal, he could not conceive that Lord Denman gave any answer whatever to that part of Chief Justice Bushe's letter. Lord Denman left that point of the letter wholly unnoticed. That branch of the law which more immediately concerned the House of Commons never was brought by Lord Denman before the judges in any way whatever. Therefore he conceived that the hon. and learned
695l.l.694Lord John Russell
677676 said, there was one question on
677676Lord J. Russell
 said, as the measure proposed by his hon. Friend would be a very great boon to the shipping and commercial interests of the country, he trusted a majority of that House would not refuse inquiry, so that some safe system might be found out to carry it into effect.Mr. A. White
 then presented two petitions from certain Dissenters in favour of the bill which he was now about to introduce, "to provide a general form of affidavit for all persons believing the taking of any oath to be forbidden by the law of God." The Quakers had long been permitted to substitute their affirmation for an oath. The Moravians and the Separatists had also since received similar indulgences; nay, all who had, at any time, been Quakers, and who still professed to have conscientious scruples, were exempted from oaths. He did not, therefore, apprehend any danger from the extension of toleration in this respect. He would now propose, that all persons should be relieved from the necessity of taking an oath who should three months previously have gone before a magistrate and have solemnly declared their conscientious objection to that Act; thereby removing the danger or likelihood of setting up a false pretence in the matter, as the declaration would be made before the necessity could be foreseen. As he anticipated no serious objection to the principle he advocated, he would, to save the time of the House, at present only move for leave to bring in the bill.Mr. Hawes
 said, that as to the main provisions of the bill, as announced by the noble Lord, he hoped it was not necessary for him to say, that he should cheerfully support them; but he had great doubts as to the propriety of seating a person, having a minority of voles, who should give notice that the agents of the opposite candidate had been guilty of bribery: such a proceeding would interfere with the rights of the electors, and he thought it might lead to dangerous consequences. The electors could not have the slightest means of ascertaining whether or not the accusation was well founded. In every case where an election was going on, a candidate could try the experiment and give notice against his opponent for the chance of gaining the seat. That would at least alarm the electors, as it would be an intimation that their votes for his opponent would be thrown away. The effect might thus be to deter a great number of the electors from recording their votes. He should be most ready to concur in any provisions which would discourage corrupt practices, but he very much feared, that to adopt the provisions of which he had spoken would be more dangerous than to leave the law as it now stood.Mr. Williams Wynn
 said, that the elector ought not to have the franchise if he did not choose to exercise it without the hope of favour or reward. It was otherwise derogatory to him, and disgraceful as well as injurious. Members of Parliament incurred great expense in attending to their duties, and he did not see why the electors should be rewarded for exercising their rights. He could not, therefore, agree with the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down, that there should be any distinction drawn as regarded treating between borough and county electors.Mr. E. Turner
 thought that the best way of preventing bribery and treating was to limit the time of election to one day. The great mischief occurred during the fatal night between the two days. He feared that no modification of treating could consistently be permitted or enjoined in favour of the poor, as proposed by the right hon. Baronet. His noble Friend, the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, had 28,000 constituents, many of whom came a distance to vote for him, and it would be a heavy drain on his purse if he gave a dinner to one-half of them.Mr. Baines
692John Russell:l.691l. said, that the tribunal which the hon. and learned Gentleman propose to constitute appeared to be subject to all the objections that existed to the present tribunal of assistant barristers, and he would say, that the settled law of the land would be violated by the measure. The bill was an insult to the administration of justice. The title of the bill was to remove doubts with respect to the qualification of voters in Ireland, for the election of Members to serve in Parliament, and those doubts had been explained by the hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite to mean doubts as to what was the interest in the franchise which entitled men to be registered, and whether or not that interest was what was called a beneficial interest—that was what any man in his own fancy might imagine it to be worth, or whether it was such an interest as a solvent tenant would give 10692John Russell:l.691l.Mr. Litton
 entirely concurred in the observation of his hon. Friend, the Member for Mallow, (Sir D. Norreys). He believed that the mode of testing the qualification by the beneficial interest of the tenant, as proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Pigot), was a mode which that hon. and learned Gentleman himself would hereafter have the greatest possible reason to regret. In point of fact, it would permanently fix upon the constituency all the evils and mischiefs of which so many complaints were now made. He believed it would not be possible to make any definition of the qualification based upon the words "beneficial interest" capable of enforcing uniformity of decision. To remove this difficulty be begged to suggest that it would be better to take the ordnance valuation, the Poor-law valuation, or even a valuation by surveyors. If the bill were introduced in the shape described by the hon. and learned Member for Clonmel, he ventured to predict that when it came fairly before the House, the good sense and experience of the English Members would prevent it from passing into a law.Mr. Lucas
697696 could not help protesting against some of the doctrines which had
697696Mr. Shaw
673 would not quibble with the motion. It was clear that if the House did consent to a committee, that that committee would be composed of Members who were favourable to the principles of the hon. Mover, and who
673Mr. G, Palmer
682 said, that he had stated his opinion on this subject already, and did not now intend to offer any opposition to the introduction of the bill; however, he begged that it would not be understood
682Mr. Goulburn
 did not object to the Roman Catholic pastors being paid; but if a sum were assigned by an act of Parliament, he had a very great objection that any portion of that fund should be applied to a purpose for which it never was intended, and from the enjoyment of which, by the construction of the statute by the judges, the Roman Catholics were expressly excluded. He did not enter upon the discussion, but this was a matter of very great importance.Mr. Goulburn
708 observed, that if they ad-
708Mr. Goulburn
 said, that the Roman Catholics had been held not to be included in the terms of the act of 1791. He begged to ask how it was, that the noble Lord proposed that they should form no exception to the provisions of his bill?Mr. Goulburn
 said, that it would be of course useless to attempt to enter into a general discussion of the measure of the noble Lord now. He wished, however, to be informed whether the noble Lord intended the Roman Catholic clergy to be included in its provisions?Mr. Goulburn
 remarked, that the line of argument used was calculated to excite an unfounded prejudice on this subject. Although the Act of Parliament did confine the proceeds of the clergy reserves to a particular purpose, yet in that act the e was introduced the almost unexampled provision, that the Legislature of Upper Canada should have power to alter this provision.Mr. Labouchere
669 thought the course pursued by his hon. Friend, the Member for Hull, an exceedingly fair one. In his opinion, this power of converting foreign wheat into flour in bond, would be a very great benefit to the commercial interest, without incurring the smallest danger of infringing the provisions of the Corn-laws. Although he was as strongly opposed as any man to the existing system of corn-laws, yet if he thought that the proposed measure would have a tendency insidiously and indirectly to undermine the operation of the Corn-laws, so long as those laws existed, he would most strenuously oppose it. He had always considered the alarm entertained upon this subject by the country gentlemen to be quite groundless. He was somewhat surprised to hear the speech which had been delivered by the noble Lord, the Member for Shropshire. Four or five years since, great alarm prevailed amongst the landed interest lest the privilege accorded to the Channel Islands, with reference to foreign corn, should lead to an illicit importation of grain into this country. He had had the pleasure of meeting the noble Lord upon that occasion, and they had carefully inquired into the subject. The result of this inquiry was, to produce the conviction in their minds, that the statements which had been made upon the subject, had been greatly exaggerated, and that this valuable boon conferred upon these dependencies of the British Crown was productive of no injury to the landed proprietors of England. He entertained sanguine hopes, that as the result of the proposed committee's labours, a measure would pass the Legislature conferring this important privilege upon the mercantile interests. Our West Indian possessions and Newfoundland took large quantities of flour, no mills existing among
669Mr. Labouchere
J. Russell: remarked, that unless the bill of the noble lord made provision for setting on foot an investigation into the complaints of electors, independently of the candidates, it would not reach the majority of cases which occurred. [Lord J. Russell:Mr. Warburton
672 had no objection to the hon. Member for Hull amusing himself with a committee if he liked. He had no doubt but that he might do so without opposition, but when he brought in a bill founded on the evidence taken before that committee, it would fare in the same manner as the bill brought in last year by his hon. Friend below him, the Member for Dartmouth, which was permitted to be read a second time, but when they came to discuss the provisions by which it was proposed to guard against fraud, they were not permitted to enter upon the consideration of them, for on the motion that the Speaker do leave the chair, preparatory to going into com-
672Mr. Warburton
 hoped, that payment to the Roman Catholic clergy would be made out of some other fund than the clergy reserves.Mr. Plumptre
 was satisfied that the present motion was an attack upon the Corn-laws by a side blow, and he thought he should be best serving the agricultural interest by opposing it.Mr. Eaton
 felt himself obliged to oppose the motion. If the hon. Member who bad brought it forward, had held out any hope that new facts, in regard to this subject, could have been elicited by a committee of inquiry, then he might have been induced to agree with the noble Lord who had last spoken, and have voted for the motion. But the hon. Mover had held out no such hope. This was a question which had over and over again been discussed in that House, and was one on which repeated decisions had been given against the views of the hon. Mover. He could not therefore see the necessity for again bringing it forward, as it had on former occasions been fully investigated. He considered this motion as an attack, by a side wind, on the Corn-laws, and as Such, he was sure it would be received by the country. The House had only two nights ago refused, by a large majority, to go into committee on the Corn-laws, and under these circumstances he was resolved to resist this motion, and to divide the House upon it, if it was pressed.Mr. Christopher
700699Laughter.698 hoped the noble Lord would reconsider the question, with a view to adopt the recommendation of the hon. Member for Mallow, and that they would no longer hear it said, that Members obtained seats in that House by fraud or perjury. Was it consistent with the high bearing of the noble Lord, that he should come forward and say that he did not propose what was right, because it might not be adopted elsewhere? Let the right measure be brought forward, and then let those who raised the objection to such a proposition bear all the odium. He trusted that leave would be given to bring in the bill that night, but that it would not be introduced till clauses had been framed to meet the suggestion that had been made. If the franchise were to depend upon pro-
700699Laughter.698Mr. Wakley
681 said, the case of a poor man going to an election was well worth taking into consideration. He might have to walk fourteen or fifteen
681Sir C. Knightley
 hoped that the motion would not be pressed to a division. He entirely concurred with the view which had been taken by his noble Friend, the Member for Shropshire. He differed wholly from the right hon. Gentleman opposite with respect to the Corn-laws. The right hon. Gentleman opposed them; he strenuously supported them. He supported them, because he was firmly persuaded that the protection of agriculture by agraduated scale of duties—the only mode which he believed would be either effectual or permanent— was essential to the general interests of the community. It was his earnest desire to enforce that protection as little vexatiously as possible. In a former Session, when a bill was introduced upon this subject by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Dartmouth, he had opposed it as tending to encourage fraud. It was only upon this narrow ground that a measure like this could be resisted. Into the proposed inquiry he was prepared to enter; but he did not think the terms of the hon. Member for Hull's motion altogether unobjectionable. He did not think that an inquiry as to the means of carrying on this manufacture should be referred to a committee. The subject referred to them should rather be, whether it was practicable by any means to secure the revenue, and prevent the illicit intrusion of foreign corn. It would then be for the House to consider as to ulterior measures. He would suggest, that these words should be added to the motion—"to consider whether it was possible, without fraud to the revenue, to devise means for the grinding of corn in bond." He trusted that there would be no division.Sir J. Graham
 thought it so desirable, that this question should beset at rest, that he had no intention of opposing the bill at that stage of the proceeding. He did not, however, wish it to be understood, that he consented to the arrangement proposed by the noble Lord. He thought there was abundant means in the possession of the Roman Catholics of Lower Canada, to provide for the Catholics both in the upper and lower province.Mr. Pakington
 hoped that the agriculturists would act liberally towards the shipping interests in this as in all other instances. He trusted that the hon. Member for Lincolnshire would withdraw his opposition, and permit the question to be discussed fairly in the proposed committee.Sir J. R. Reid
ad valorem,671 felt the importance of the subject so much, that he had placed in the paper a notice of his intention to introduce a bill during the present Session. He did not complain of the hon. Member for Hull having taken up the question, and he would shortly state his reasons for taking so much interest in the question. He thought they ought to give every possible scope to the enterprise of the merchants, but he never wished to do so in contravention of any existing law. Whenever a demand was made for flour the merchants were compelled to go into the ports of the Baltic in order to supply the markets of the United States and the Brazils, and those voyages were attended with considerable expense and loss of time. He recollected hearing Mr. Poulett Thompson state, a few years ago, that owing to the deficiency in the crop in the United States there would have been a very considerable demand for flour from England, if at the time they had been permitted to grind corn in bond. Most of the seaports in America had no means of converting grain into flour, and their supplies always came from the interior in the shape of flour. On that occasion it would have been of great advantage to the Americans, and a great convenience to our merchants, if they had been permitted to supply the demand. He thought an arrangement could be made by which that object might be accomplished, while at the same time security was given that the revenue should not be defrauded. It was a notorious fact that under the new bonding system goods of the most valuable description were allowed to be transferred from London to Liverpool, or to any other part of the country which had the advantage of canal communication, without any loss whatever to the revenue. It had been stated, he believed, before that Committee, that no loss to the revenue had occurred from the abstraction of property in transit; there had occasionally been losses by forfeiture of bonds on account of the insufficiency of the bonds given in the first instance, but there had been no pilfering or abstraction of property during its transit. He could not conceive any great difficulty with respect to security in this case. It had been tried with respect to sugars now refined in bond, and though at first there had been some practical difficulties these had been overcome. With respect to
ad valorem,671Mr. Mark Phillips
680679 observed, that this subject was one of extreme difficulty to legislate upon. All were desirous of preventing bribery, but while they wished, if possible, to detect and punish the guilty, they ought to see that advantage was not taken of acts which were innocent in themselves. Suppose that an election committee, having adjudicated on the individual claim before it, were to present a special report to the House, that circumstances had appeared which demanded further investigation, as affecting the general character of the body, and perhaps laying the foundation for a measure of disfranchisement, the House might in such a case give power to the committee to continue the investigation on public grounds, and at the public expense. It would be desirable that the committee should retain the same power which it now had for the purpose of conducting the private investigation of examining on oath. He could not help thinking that the disclosure of disgraceful conduct would have a very powerful effect in repressing such practices. As to bribery, he apprehended there could be no doubt that any effectual law framed for the purpose of preventing it should receive the support of the House. It appeared to him that this was a subject of much less difficulty than the law of treating, and if it were possible clearly to define bribery, so that persons might with a perfectly safe conscience take an oath, he should be very much disposed to require the parties to disclaim upon oath any participation in it. He thought this might be adviseable if no other remedy should be found effectual, although he had strong objections to the unnecessary multiplication of oaths. The offence, however, must be clearly specified and defined, otherwise persons who had been guilty of no improper act, but had dispensed their charity liberally in their neighbourhoods, might be deterred from taking; the oath. It was quite possible
680679Sir R. Peel
Villiers after the extraordinary speech of his hon. Friend, the Member for Wolverhampton, must make an observation. It was true this was a private conversation, but his hon. Friend had stated, two years ago, in that House, that his objection to this bill was, that it would remove from the Corn-laws a portion of that odium which he thought they justly deserved. [Mr. VilliersMr. Hutt,
666665664l.663 said, that the subject of which he had given notice, and to which he now wished to call the attention of the House as of great importance to the public interests, was one with which the House was by no means unfamiliar. Since the Grinding Act expired in 1825, various propositions had been submitted to Parliament for allowing corn to be manufactured into flour in bond, for the purpose of exportation. These propositions had been brought forward in the form of bills, and though they had been anxiously promoted by the Gentlemen who introduced them, and supported by the shipping and mercantile interests of the country, they had not, any one of them, bad the good fortune to obtain the sanction of the House of Commons. He did not now propose to introduce a bill upon the subject, for he could have little hope of attaining an object which Gentlemen every way his superior had failed in accomplishing. But, being strongly impressed with the conviction, that the hostility evinced by the House to these measures had been the result of insufficient information and ill-founded alarm, that hon. Members in deciding on them had neither estimated rightly the advantages which these measures would confer on the community, nor the evils which they could by any possibility impose on any particular interest in it, it was with these feelings, and being urged by that class, whose welfare it was his more immediate duty in that House to promote, that he had been led to come forward and to request that the House would grant him a committee to inquire into the question. At least let the subject, with the nature of which few gentlemen could have any practical acquaintance, be fully and fairly investigated. Whatever opinions the House might entertain of the prudence and propriety of permitting corn to be ground in bond, he was sure, that looking to the large and influential classes who had solicited this boon of the Legislature, all parties would agree that it was not a request of that nature, which should be lightly or carelessly denied. The case of the merchants was this, they allege that, under the restrictions of the existing law, extensive markets, in which they might carry on a valuable trade, are closed against them; that, in consequence of the disabilities which their own Legislature has imposed on them, Newfoundland, the West Indies,
666665664l.663Mr. Hutt
687686 said, that he would first state, that he did not intend to oppose this motion. He did not think it necessary to suggest, that the motion should be framed for copies or "extracts," because the communications required were those which had taken place between the Government and British merchants, and not between the Government and their own agents. However, he should wish it to be understood, that if amongst the papers required, any communications of the latter sort should be found, extracts
687686Viscount Palmerston
 was anxious that this question should have the fullest and most mature consideration. He thought such a measure as the hon. Gentleman had proposed would be highly advantageous to the trade and shipping interest of this country, and he considered that it might be adopted with perfect safety as respected the interests of the home growers of corn. He should have been willing at once to sanction the introduction of a bill to carry out the views of the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward this motion, but, as a majority of the House had so recently decided against going into Committee on the Corn-laws, he was heartily glad, as a bill might not be successful, that this question had been brought forward in such a shape as would enable the House to investigate it fully.Viscount Sandon
 moved the order of the day for going into Committee on the Canada Government Bill.Lord J. Russell
724"So strongly do I feel the fatal consequences of this measure, that were I permitted to approach my gracious Sovereign, I would on my bended knees implore her Majesty to withhold her assent from it."723"To remove the seat of government wholly from Upper Canada would not only be contrary to the declared sense of the legislature of that colony, but it would be laying the
723"Her Majesty's Government does not consider the union of the two provinces a fit matter to be recommended to the consideration of Parliament."722721"Because the union places the Protestant population of both the Canadas under a Legislature virtually Roman Catholic, and with an injurious, unjust, and unconstitutional distinction—viz., that while the rights and temporalities of the Church of Rome are secured by law against all attempts from local authority, those of the Church of England are continually liable to be interfered with by the united Legislature."720"Hitherto the province has been free from religious dissensions, but I have observed with regret during the late discussions a spirit of intolerance which cannot fail, if continued, to have the worst effects,""To leave this question of the union of the provinces undetermined would be to add to the sources of discord already existing, a new element of strife; for among the various evils existing in Lower Canada there was one now wanting—namely, religious dissension.""The Republican party had become much revived of late, and that the loyal party were so jealous of any measure that would give an ascendancy to their opponents, that it was impossible to act with too great caution. The country needed peace; and it was of great importance that a body of loyal emigrants should go over to Canada from this country, that so possession might be secured before important legislation began."719l.718"I have all along informed her Majesty's Government, that it is absurd to think of Upper Canada as containing a whole community of loyalists. There is a considerable section of persons who are disloyal to the core —reform is on their lips, but separation is in
718"Nor do I exaggerate the inevitable constancy any more than the intensity of this animosity. Never again will the present generation of French Canadians yield a loyal submission to a British Government. Never again will the English population tolerate the authority of a House of Assembly, in which the French shall possess, or even approximate to, a majority."717"The first point to which I would draw your attention being one with which all others are more or less connected, is the existence of
717716"An attempt to join people dissimilar in law, language, and manners, appeared to him highly absurd—to join, too, the conquerors and the conquered must give rise to much unpleasant feeling, and many invidious distinctions; he recommended that system of go-ment which tended to promote the good of the individual and the public, in opposition to that which attempted to methodize anarchy.""He believed there was such a rooted opposition of interests, that if there was a constitution consisting of a House of Assembly in which the parties might be nearly balanced, the consequence, at least for a long series of years, would be a great degree of animosity and confusion."715"If the province were not divided, there would be only one House of Assembly, and, there being two parties, if those parties should be equal, or nearly equal, in the Assembly, it would be the source of perpetual faction. If
715714"I should further recommend that the governor or viceroy be empowered to appoint a deputy-governor to reside at Toronto, and form an executive council to transact the business of the districts to the westward of Midland District, under special instructions from the governor or viceroy.""No person who, like myself, has been for nearly thirty years traversing annually a large portion of Upper Canada, can possibly persuade himself that the great ends of civil government—safety and convenience—can be reasonably provided for under such an arrangement. If it be attempted, the change cannot last. The inconveniences to which it would give rise could scarcely be overstated."713712711 rose, under feelings of greater anxiety and embarrassment than he had ever before experienced, to oppose the bill. Deeply sensible of the great difficulty and importance of the subject, he approached it solely through a paramount sense of public duty. He was not prepared to say, that at no future period the union of the Canadas might be practicable, but that at present such a step was both dangerous and impolitic. He should not, perhaps, have thought of adopting the course he was now about to take respecting the noble Lord's bill, had he not found, upon investigating the subject, that the views he entertained upon it were supported by some of the greatest and most illustrious statesmen that had ever adorned that House or done honour to the country, and by, if not all, a very large majority of those public officers, who, at various times, up to the present time, and under the present Administration, had held authority in the Canadas. In stating his views to the House, he would not be tempted to deviate into any lengthened comments upon the history of Canada during the last few years, or to dwell upon the various causes which led to the rebellion in that country—a rebellion which had created so much distraction and disturbance in Canada, as now rendered it imperative upon the Imperial Parliament to interfere to settle the affairs
724"So strongly do I feel the fatal consequences of this measure, that were I permitted to approach my gracious Sovereign, I would on my bended knees implore her Majesty to withhold her assent from it."723"To remove the seat of government wholly from Upper Canada would not only be contrary to the declared sense of the legislature of that colony, but it would be laying the
723"Her Majesty's Government does not consider the union of the two provinces a fit matter to be recommended to the consideration of Parliament."722721"Because the union places the Protestant population of both the Canadas under a Legislature virtually Roman Catholic, and with an injurious, unjust, and unconstitutional distinction—viz., that while the rights and temporalities of the Church of Rome are secured by law against all attempts from local authority, those of the Church of England are continually liable to be interfered with by the united Legislature."720"Hitherto the province has been free from religious dissensions, but I have observed with regret during the late discussions a spirit of intolerance which cannot fail, if continued, to have the worst effects,""To leave this question of the union of the provinces undetermined would be to add to the sources of discord already existing, a new element of strife; for among the various evils existing in Lower Canada there was one now wanting—namely, religious dissension.""The Republican party had become much revived of late, and that the loyal party were so jealous of any measure that would give an ascendancy to their opponents, that it was impossible to act with too great caution. The country needed peace; and it was of great importance that a body of loyal emigrants should go over to Canada from this country, that so possession might be secured before important legislation began."719l.718"I have all along informed her Majesty's Government, that it is absurd to think of Upper Canada as containing a whole community of loyalists. There is a considerable section of persons who are disloyal to the core —reform is on their lips, but separation is in
718"Nor do I exaggerate the inevitable constancy any more than the intensity of this animosity. Never again will the present generation of French Canadians yield a loyal submission to a British Government. Never again will the English population tolerate the authority of a House of Assembly, in which the French shall possess, or even approximate to, a majority."717"The first point to which I would draw your attention being one with which all others are more or less connected, is the existence of
717716"An attempt to join people dissimilar in law, language, and manners, appeared to him highly absurd—to join, too, the conquerors and the conquered must give rise to much unpleasant feeling, and many invidious distinctions; he recommended that system of go-ment which tended to promote the good of the individual and the public, in opposition to that which attempted to methodize anarchy.""He believed there was such a rooted opposition of interests, that if there was a constitution consisting of a House of Assembly in which the parties might be nearly balanced, the consequence, at least for a long series of years, would be a great degree of animosity and confusion."715"If the province were not divided, there would be only one House of Assembly, and, there being two parties, if those parties should be equal, or nearly equal, in the Assembly, it would be the source of perpetual faction. If
715714"I should further recommend that the governor or viceroy be empowered to appoint a deputy-governor to reside at Toronto, and form an executive council to transact the business of the districts to the westward of Midland District, under special instructions from the governor or viceroy.""No person who, like myself, has been for nearly thirty years traversing annually a large portion of Upper Canada, can possibly persuade himself that the great ends of civil government—safety and convenience—can be reasonably provided for under such an arrangement. If it be attempted, the change cannot last. The inconveniences to which it would give rise could scarcely be overstated."713712711Mr. Pakington
732731730729"The power for which a Minister is responsible in England, is not his own power, but the power of the Crown, of which he is for the time the organ. It is obvious that the executive councillor of a colony is in a situation totally different. The governor under whom he serves, receives his orders from the Crown of England. But can the Colonial Council be the advisers of the Crown of England? Evidently not, for the Crown has other advisers for the same functions, and with superior authority."728"But while I convince myself that such desirable ends would be secured by the legislative union of the two provinces, I am inclined to go further, and inquire whether all these objects would not more surely be attained
728"The Reformers of Upper Canada paid little attention to the composition of the Legislative Council, and directed their exertions to obtaining such an alteration of the Executive Council as might have been obtained without any derangement of the constitutional balance of power; but they well knew, that if once they obtained possession of the Executive Council, and the higher offices of the province, the Legislative Council would soon be unable to offer any effectual resistance to their meditated reforms.""The wisdom of adopting the true principle of representative government, and facilitating the management of public affairs, by intrusting it to the persons who have the confidence of the representative body, has never been recognized in the government of the North American colonies.""The powers for which the Assembly contended appear in both instances to be such as it was perfectly justified in demanding. It is difficult to conceive what could have been their theory of government, who imagined that in any colony of England, a body invested with the name and character of a representative Assembly, could be deprived of any of those powers which, in the opinion of Englishmen, are inherent in a popular legislature."727726725 concurring as he did in many points of the able speech which his hon. Friend, the Member for Droitwich had just delivered, and thinking, notwithstanding the opposition of those Gentlemen who were so clamorous for the division, that this subject had not met with all the attention which it deserved, and that the country was indebted to his hon. Friend for having done all in his power to obtain for it additional attention, and not being prepared to concur in his hon. Friend's motion, but, on the other hand, feeling himself bound to support the motion proposed by her Majesty's Go-
732731730729"The power for which a Minister is responsible in England, is not his own power, but the power of the Crown, of which he is for the time the organ. It is obvious that the executive councillor of a colony is in a situation totally different. The governor under whom he serves, receives his orders from the Crown of England. But can the Colonial Council be the advisers of the Crown of England? Evidently not, for the Crown has other advisers for the same functions, and with superior authority."728"But while I convince myself that such desirable ends would be secured by the legislative union of the two provinces, I am inclined to go further, and inquire whether all these objects would not more surely be attained
728"The Reformers of Upper Canada paid little attention to the composition of the Legislative Council, and directed their exertions to obtaining such an alteration of the Executive Council as might have been obtained without any derangement of the constitutional balance of power; but they well knew, that if once they obtained possession of the Executive Council, and the higher offices of the province, the Legislative Council would soon be unable to offer any effectual resistance to their meditated reforms.""The wisdom of adopting the true principle of representative government, and facilitating the management of public affairs, by intrusting it to the persons who have the confidence of the representative body, has never been recognized in the government of the North American colonies.""The powers for which the Assembly contended appear in both instances to be such as it was perfectly justified in demanding. It is difficult to conceive what could have been their theory of government, who imagined that in any colony of England, a body invested with the name and character of a representative Assembly, could be deprived of any of those powers which, in the opinion of Englishmen, are inherent in a popular legislature."727726725Mr. Gladstone
740739738737736735734733 had some objections to the details of this bill, but as the hon. Member for Droitwich had brought forward the general question by opposing the principle of the bill, he might be permitted to say that to that principle he gave his most cordial support, and he believed that the bill generally was framed in so wise and judicious a manner as to secure to Canada the advantages of good government, with all the prospects of advantage
740739738737736735734733Mr. C. Buller
741 said, as it was his intention to vote for going into committee, he would not trouble the House at length. He would state, however, that resolutions had emanated from every county in Upper Canada expressive of their approval of the union. He understood, indeed, that the majority of the people had agreed to the union, in the belief that Lord Durham's Report, which held out the hope that a responsible Government would be conceded to them, would be adopted. Nine-tenths of the people of Upper Canada supported the union on that principle alone. He did not well understand the arguments of the hon. Member for Newark with respect to the governing power and responsibility divided between the colonies and the mother country. His complaint against the bill was, that it did not hold out that security to the popular branch of the Legislature, which had all along been promised. They were about to take from the people, by that bill, the management of their revenues. But he hoped in committee, the noble Lord would see the necessity of making an alteration on that point. There would be no security unless they gave to
741Mr. Hume
744743Hear.742 said, the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard had stated that if the Canadians were united, they would have a responsible Government. That was no very gratifying prospect for his side of the House. He would remind the hon. and learned Member, that Lord Durham had stated that a large section of the people in Lower Canada, namely, the French party, were filled with the deepest hatred towards the English nation. He would beg also to remind the House of a passage in Lord Durham's report, in which, speaking of the Reformers of Upper Canada, he said, they had a great desire to assimilate their institutions to those of the United States. Many persons said this was a most partial report. He did not say that, but merely that he had heard a report of Lord Durham's being partial to the Canadians. But what said Sir G. Arthur?—that he had all along informed the Government the Reformers of Upper Canada were unfriendly to this country. Was that party inconsiderable? Sir G. Arthur said it was very considerable, and that he was desirous of a police to penetrate the intentions of this hostile party. What said Lord Seaton? That in Lower Canada responsible Government was the watchword of every rebel, and Sir G. Arthur said the same of the Reformers in Upper Canada. He put it to the hon. Member, if this were so, what would become of the harmony of the united Legislature? But as the noble Lord declared through Mr. P. Thomson he was not prepared to concede a responsible Government, it was plain he would not do so unless he were compelled to it—therefore the hon. Member appeared to him to be looking to that numerous party in the Canadas, who would force this responsible
744743Hear.742Mr. Colquhoun
748747746745 said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had given them a conversation which had taken place between himself and a gentleman, who seemed, he thought, much better to understand the condition of the colonies than did the hon. Gentleman. He wished the hon. Member had felt the force of the arguments he had so well repeated, because when he came to what he was pleased to call the rebound of the argument, he confessed he was at a loss to feel the force of it. The hon. Member had offered some reasons against the measure now before the House, and having done so had proceeded to lay before them a plan of his own. He thought the objection to it was simply this—that no man who had taken the trouble to read the
748747746745Viscount Howick
750l.l.d.749 would only detain the House a few moments. His object was simply to protest against the bill. He would not wish to speak with anything like emphasis, but he protested against this bill because it contained two distinct principles of injustice—first, on the ground of the unequal representation of the people of Lower Canada as compared with the Upper Province. That portion which was the most populous had only the same share in the representation as that portion which was the least so. The second injustice of which he complained was a pecuniary one. Lower Canada was unencumbered. Now, by the proposed union, it was intended to spread the debt of Upper Canada, which was exclusively its own, over the entire of the united country. But the worst of all was, that they were about to do this without consulting the wishes of the people. It might be said that the Legislature of Upper Canada had consented, and so far they had the semblance of popular approval; but this was done at a most unfortunate
750l.l.d.749Mr. O'Connell
"There is a natural excitement felt here for the result of the union on the Clergy Reserves' Bill; but there is otherwise no general excitement in the country, and the community at large seem more desirous of repose than of further agitation. I do not, therefore, know a more auspicious moment than the present for carrying the details of the union into effect, if that measure should be agreed to by the Imperial Legislature."752751 believed that the Government were under great obligations to the hon. Member for Droitwich, for having shown, on two occasions, that the decided sense of that House was in favour of the union of the provinces. On the first, occasion, the hon. Gentleman had refused to go at great length into the question, but had stated his general hostility to the measure, and in the course of the short debate which had ensued, the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Tamworth, had declared his intention of voting for the union. On the present occasion, the hon. Gentleman had gone at greater length into the question, but he had not produced such an effect upon the House as would induce them to accede to his views—he had, on the contrary, produced a speech from the hon. Member for Newark, more entirely in accordance with the plans and views of the Government than even the speech of the right hon. Member for Tamworth on a former occasion. The chief opposition to the present bill, in addition to that of the hon. Gentleman, had proceeded from the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and he did not imagine that the hon. Gentleman opposite would concur in the views of the hon. and learned Gentleman on that subject. With regard to the first objection of the hon. and learned Gentleman, namely, that the representation was unequal, as compared with the population of the two provinces, his answer was that the representation was founded on the principle usually adopted on the American Continent, not the exact state of the population at the time the constitution was granted, but what it was likely to be in the course of a few years; because if this were not the case in a country possessed of large territory, and in which a considerable influx of people was likely to arrive—if it were not so based, the very injustice would be committed which it was wished to avoid. With regard to the debt, that debt had been incurred by Upper
"There is a natural excitement felt here for the result of the union on the Clergy Reserves' Bill; but there is otherwise no general excitement in the country, and the community at large seem more desirous of repose than of further agitation. I do not, therefore, know a more auspicious moment than the present for carrying the details of the union into effect, if that measure should be agreed to by the Imperial Legislature."752751Lord John Russell
 thought we ought to legislate for Canada, on the principle that she would one day become independent of the mother country. The more slight our control, the more firmly she would adhere to us. If we reckoned on her assistance, we must govern her gently.Mr. Ewart
753 wished to know what se-
753Mr. Hume
 In Trinidad there was no representative assembly, and therefore it was considered expedient to allow some members of the Council to be elected. With regard to the present proposal, it was made in accordance with the views of the present Governor-general, confirmed, as he said in one of his despatches, by all the authorities he could approach, both in the Upper and Lower Province, as well as by the opinion of Lord Seaton. He believed that the former differences between the Council and Assembly arose rather from an opposition of political opinions, than from the fact of the councillors being for life. No such dissensions would have taken place had the Council been nominated so as to include those only who agreed with the majority of the assembly.Lord J. Russell.
755"He plainly and openly, then, declared, should this bill pass into a law, that if a clergyman in his diocese conducted himself criminally, he would call on that clergyman to answer to him for his actions, on his oath of canonical obedience. Over the clergyman's civil state he had no power; but he had power over him in a spiritual point of view, 'and,' said the right rev. Prelate, 'before his master and my master, I will remind this erring clergyman of his folly or his vice, I will reprimand him for it; and if he will not obey the remonstrance, I shall proceed to that sentence which this bill tells me I shall not pass —I shall proceed to excommunicate him.' "754 said, it was with considerable hesitation he opposed the exclusion of any fellow subjects from the enjoyment of political rights and dignities, but he felt bound, as a means of promoting the welfare of the state in general, and of the Canadas in particular, to press this proposal on the consideration of the committee. He grounded his motion on the entire inability of the clergy to discuss political questions with calmness, more particularly where the wealth of the Established Church was concerned. The clergy were notorious for incapacity as statesmen and legislators. The opinion of a celebrated historian (one of their great favourers and partisans) was too well known for him to quote at length; but he begged the committee to look to recent instances in which the weakness of the clergy as legislators, was manifested in the most deplorable manner. He was afraid that the illustrations which he should have to adduce would not be very palatable to hon. Gentlemen opposite; but he should endeavour to make his statements in as inoffensive a manner as he could, consistently with giving the best effect to the strongest topics in support of his case. In 1838, a bill for the improvement of church discipline was introduced into another
755"He plainly and openly, then, declared, should this bill pass into a law, that if a clergyman in his diocese conducted himself criminally, he would call on that clergyman to answer to him for his actions, on his oath of canonical obedience. Over the clergyman's civil state he had no power; but he had power over him in a spiritual point of view, 'and,' said the right rev. Prelate, 'before his master and my master, I will remind this erring clergyman of his folly or his vice, I will reprimand him for it; and if he will not obey the remonstrance, I shall proceed to that sentence which this bill tells me I shall not pass —I shall proceed to excommunicate him.' "754Mr. C. Lushington
 could not agree to the proposition for an absolute exclusion of the clergy, however desirable it might be to enforce it under certain circumstances. He thought the speech of his hon. Friend, a revival of that which he made some years ago, in prefacing a motion respecting the House of Lords, rather than as one pertinent to the present discussion.Lord J. Russell
: If the Government dispensed with the attendance of the Bishop in the Council of Australia, why not in that of Canada?Mr. Hume
: In Australia there was but one Bishop, whereas in Canada there were several. It was best to leave the matter to the discretion of the Governor.Sir C. Grey
 said, he wished to be understood as assenting to the principle, that it was not generally desirable to have clergymen in the Council, though he felt bound to oppose a motion of so sweeping a character as the present.Lord J. Russell
757 said, that although he concurred with the bill generally, under all circumstances, he thought this a defective part. He had not spoken until the preceding clauses had passed, because he thought, under existing circumstances, it was impossible those clauses could be mended. The committee, however, must bear in mind the practical difficulties in the constitution of the Legislature. The councillors only held their offices during pleasure, and were removable by the Crown, therefore, they stood more in the situation of advisers to the Governor than in any other capacity. That was the original constitution. Of late it had, indeed, been varied, but he questioned whether beneficially so. It was impossible to create a Council of this kind, which should have the weight and importance that the House of Lords had in this country. It was an institution
757Viscount Howick
 said, it would be impossible to propose any alteration that should have a chance of satisfying all parties.Mr. C Buller
 protested against the clause as unjust, on the ground of the population of the two provinces being unequal, and equal representation being given.Mr. W. S. O'Brien
 said, that he objected to the bill, because an equal number of representatives was given to the upper and lower provinces. The hon. Member for Limerick wished to have a larger representation for Lower Canada, merely because the number of the population was greater. Now, he (Sir R. Inglis) held that population was not the just basis of representation, and looking to property, and, above all, looking to principle, he held that Upper Canada, being more nationally English, should have the preference.Sir Robert Inglis
 considered they were bound to give equal representation to each; province. The noble Lord then intimated, that within the last two days he had received a despatch from the Governor-general, suggesting the propriety of assigning two representatives to the county of Lincoln, and that in consequence of that despatch, he should on the report propose the division of the county in question into two ridings, each sending one member, and that no member should be given to the town of Niagara.Lord John Russell
758 complained that the town population was not sufficiently represented. There were seventy-eight members in all, and it was proposed out of those only to give eight or nine to the towns.
758Mr. E. Ellice
 was inclined to agree with the hon. Member with respect to giving additional representatives to Toronto and Kingston. He thought that the cities of Quebec and Montreal should have a fair representation in proportion to the amount of population.Mr. C. Buller
 said, that if the large towns were to return two Members, he hoped they would be divided into wards.Mr. Hume
 objected to the clause. In the first place he thought the qualification too high; in the next place, he did not see the necessity of any qualification at all.Mr. Hume
 suggested that the qualification should extend to personal property as well as to property in land.Mr. Hawes
l. observed, that 500l.Mr. Edward Ellice
760 approved of making the
760Mr. C. Buller
 said, that it was necessary that there should be a legal record of everything, and that was all that he required to be in the English language. He did not mean to prevent translations.Lord John Russell
 thought, that much hardship might be imposed on the members of the legislature itself, who might not know the English language, if all printed documents for the use of the house were required to be in the English language, and he, therefore, earnestly requested his noble Friend to agree to the amendment.Viscount Howick
 said, that the clause related only to formal proceedings on matters of record, and did not interfere with interlocutory matters, nor did it appear to him to prevent any copy being translated into French for the use of members or others.The Solicitor-General
 suggested that a proviso should be added that nothing in the clause should prevent the Legislature from ordering any translation to be made.Sir C. Grey
 observed, that this was the only clause that he would like to keep in the bill, because he was anxious as far as possible to introduce the English language, notions, and feelings. They ought to propagate the English language wherever there was English law.Sir R. H. Inglis
 wished for time to consider the point, as he admitted that the words "and printed" were not in the bill sent from Canada.Lord John Russell
 thought that the preservation of the English language was of great importance, for the difficulty of translating one legal language into another legal language was very great. Which was to be the original?—see the subtlety of the lawyers—see how they differed in construing one language, and what increased difficulties would there be if the lawyers were to construe languages.Mr. Courtenay
 supported the clause. The grant was not greater, in his opinion, than public policy demanded. He thought, however, that the salary of the Governor-General ought to be charged upon the consolidated fund rather than upon the revenues of the colony. As, on the one hand, it was desirable that the Governor-General should have a liberal salary, and, as on the other, it appeared that the colony were not desirous of giving it, it would be well to provide from the civil list such salaries as would ensure to the executive the means of performing its duty.Viscount Howick
 begged to ask the noble Lord, whether he was aware of any impediments having been thrown in the way of the British residents at Naples to prevent their enjoying the advantages of a Protestant place of worship; whether, if so, those impediments were still continued; with whom they had arisen, and by whom they were so continued?Mr. Cumming Bruce
710 said, that the strictness of the laws opposed some obstacles to Protestant worship at Naples. For a long course of time, however, an apartment in the house of the consul-general at Naples was appropriated as a chapel for British residents; and when the office of consul-general was abolished, and a consul with a reduced salary substituted in his place, a similar accommodation was still afforded in the house of the consul. The room in his house, however, having been found too small, the British residents applied to the Neapolitan Government for permission to build a separate edifice as a chapel for public worship, and it was understood by them and the British mission that the Neapolitan Government had consented that such edifice should be erected, provided that its outward appearance should be free from anything calculated to shock or annoy the feelings of the Neapolitan inhabitants. Her Majesty's Minister and the British residents proceeded with some ceremony to lay the first stone of the intended chapel, but the Neapolitan government, acted upon by some other influence, took alarm, as he supposed, retracted their consent, and insisted that a stop should be put to the erection of such building. The British residents then, but without obtaining in writing the consent of the Neapolitan government, engaged a large room in the Palazzo Calabritti as a place of worship, which, however, when fitted up, the Neapolitan government would not permit to be
710Lord Palmerston
 thought Mr. Bradshaw's claim for compensation was a just one.Mr. E. Tennent
 said, the Government had allowed Mr. Bradshaw to go on for more than a year and a-half, and then suddenly came upon him; decidedly there was a case for inquiry at all events, and he should press his motion for a committee.Mr. O'Connell
l.;"Your committee have employed a considerable portion of their time and attention in the investigation of the expenditure of the United Kingdom, with a view to the settlement of the account of proportionate contribution between the two countries. They have not yet the means of stating an account with so much exactness as to serve as the foundation of a definitive settlement between Great Britain and Ireland, as the accounts which they have directed to be made up in Ireland are not yet completed. While they have been in preparation your committee have to state that they could not be more usefully employed during those several sittings than in discussing and settling, subject to the final judgment of Parliament, the principle by which the account ought to be regulated, with respect to certain articles as to which the sense of the Act of Union appeared to admit of question. With respect to these points your committee are of opinion, that in the adjustment of the payments made on account of the joint charge of Great Britain and Ireland, the payments made from the consolidated fund (Ireland), since the union, under the act of 40 George 3rd, ch. 34, so far as relates to any composition to any bodies corporate or individuals, in respect to any city or borough which may have ceased to send Members to Parliament in consequence of the union, should not be a joint charge."l.797l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.l.,l.;"A case is established in the instance of Ireland, which was written in characters too legible not to serve as a guide to future financiers—one which ought to bring shame upon the memory of its authors. The revenue of Ireland, in the year 1807, amounted to 4,378,000l.l.,l.l.l.,l.;"Your committee cannot but remark, that for several years Ireland has advanced in permanent taxation more rapidly than Great Britain itself, notwithstanding the immense exertions of the latter country, and including the extraordinary and war taxes; the permanent revenue of Great Britain having increased from the year 1801, when the accounts of both countries were first made to correspond in the proportion of 16½ to 10—the whole revenue of Great Britain, including war taxes, in the proportion of 21¾ to 10, and the revenues of Ireland in the proportion of 23 to 10. But in the twenty-four years referred to by your committee, the increase of Irish revenue has been in the proportion of 46¾ to 10."796l.,l.l.,£5,408,000Total
£5,408,000Total224,000Post-horse duty
224,000Post-horse duty782,000Soap
782,000Soap463,000Bricks
463,000Bricks£3,939,000Land and assessed taxes
£3,939,000Land and assessed taxes
£5,408,000Total
£5,408,000Total224,000Post-horse duty
224,000Post-horse duty782,000Soap
782,000Soap463,000Bricks
463,000Bricks£3,939,000Land and assessed taxes
£3,939,000Land and assessed taxesl.l.l.£16,821,000Total charge
£16,821,000Total charge1,021,000Ditto of unfunded
1,021,000Ditto of unfunded£15,800,000Charge of funded debt
£15,800,000Charge of funded debtANNUAL INTEREST.
ANNUAL INTEREST.£446,385,000Total debt
£446,385,000Total debt26,080,000Unfunded debt
26,080,000Unfunded debt£420,305,000Funded debt
£420,305,000Funded debtBRITISH DEBT AT THE UNION.
BRITISH DEBT AT THE UNION.
£16,821,000Total charge
£16,821,000Total charge1,021,000Ditto of unfunded
1,021,000Ditto of unfunded£15,800,000Charge of funded debt
£15,800,000Charge of funded debtANNUAL INTEREST.
ANNUAL INTEREST.£446,385,000Total debt
£446,385,000Total debt26,080,000Unfunded debt
26,080,000Unfunded debt£420,305,000Funded debt
£420,305,000Funded debtBRITISH DEBT AT THE UNION.
BRITISH DEBT AT THE UNION.795l."In respect to the past expenses, Ireland had no concern whatever with the debt of Great Britain, but the two countries were to unite as to future expenses, on a strict measure of relative ability. He should have considered it a most valuable circumstance in this arrangement if the countries could have been so completely incorporated as not to have had distinct revenues, a part of the system of the Scots' union, which had been felt to be of such importance that a great effort was made to equalize the circumstances of the two countries for that purpose. England had a large debt, Scotland had none charged upon her revenues; an accurate calculation was made of the sum to be paid to Scotland, to justify her in accepting her share of the debt, and the sum was paid accordingly by England. The taxation of the two countries was accordingly fixed at the same proportion, except in the instance of the land-tax, which was fixed at a different ratio, because the land-tax in England was imposed so unequally, that had Scotland paid in the same rate as the nominal tax of England, she would really have been taxed much higher than her just proportion. He mentioned this to show the pains that had been taken to incorporate the two countries, as well in point of finance as other circumstances; but in the present situation of these countries, this part of the system could not be adopted. Great Britain now paid in taxes for interest on her debt ten millions annually (it was nearly 17,000,000l.l.l.794l.l.793 said, that the hon. Gentleman seemed disposed to regard Ireland, in one respect, as an English country—but had Ireland the same privileges—had she the same franchises—had she the same liberties, as if she were an English country? The hon. Gentleman would, indeed, give to Ireland an equality of burdens with England, but he would at the same time deny to her an equality of rights. The hon. Gentleman would give an equality in the burden, but an inequality in the relief. The financial was a different question from the political, and yet by the Union they were to be secured an equality of political rights, while they were told that they were to be free from an equality of fiscal burdens. But, then, the hon. Gentleman talked of the prosperity of Ireland! He said that Ireland was prosperous because it exported the prime necessaries of life! Now, if the hon. Gentleman spoke of its imports, it would then be known that the country was prosperous, because it was a consumer
l.;"Your committee have employed a considerable portion of their time and attention in the investigation of the expenditure of the United Kingdom, with a view to the settlement of the account of proportionate contribution between the two countries. They have not yet the means of stating an account with so much exactness as to serve as the foundation of a definitive settlement between Great Britain and Ireland, as the accounts which they have directed to be made up in Ireland are not yet completed. While they have been in preparation your committee have to state that they could not be more usefully employed during those several sittings than in discussing and settling, subject to the final judgment of Parliament, the principle by which the account ought to be regulated, with respect to certain articles as to which the sense of the Act of Union appeared to admit of question. With respect to these points your committee are of opinion, that in the adjustment of the payments made on account of the joint charge of Great Britain and Ireland, the payments made from the consolidated fund (Ireland), since the union, under the act of 40 George 3rd, ch. 34, so far as relates to any composition to any bodies corporate or individuals, in respect to any city or borough which may have ceased to send Members to Parliament in consequence of the union, should not be a joint charge."l.797l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.l.,l.;"A case is established in the instance of Ireland, which was written in characters too legible not to serve as a guide to future financiers—one which ought to bring shame upon the memory of its authors. The revenue of Ireland, in the year 1807, amounted to 4,378,000l.l.,l.l.l.,l.;"Your committee cannot but remark, that for several years Ireland has advanced in permanent taxation more rapidly than Great Britain itself, notwithstanding the immense exertions of the latter country, and including the extraordinary and war taxes; the permanent revenue of Great Britain having increased from the year 1801, when the accounts of both countries were first made to correspond in the proportion of 16½ to 10—the whole revenue of Great Britain, including war taxes, in the proportion of 21¾ to 10, and the revenues of Ireland in the proportion of 23 to 10. But in the twenty-four years referred to by your committee, the increase of Irish revenue has been in the proportion of 46¾ to 10."796l.,l.l.,£5,408,000Total
£5,408,000Total224,000Post-horse duty
224,000Post-horse duty782,000Soap
782,000Soap463,000Bricks
463,000Bricks£3,939,000Land and assessed taxes
£3,939,000Land and assessed taxes
£5,408,000Total
£5,408,000Total224,000Post-horse duty
224,000Post-horse duty782,000Soap
782,000Soap463,000Bricks
463,000Bricks£3,939,000Land and assessed taxes
£3,939,000Land and assessed taxesl.l.l.£16,821,000Total charge
£16,821,000Total charge1,021,000Ditto of unfunded
1,021,000Ditto of unfunded£15,800,000Charge of funded debt
£15,800,000Charge of funded debtANNUAL INTEREST.
ANNUAL INTEREST.£446,385,000Total debt
£446,385,000Total debt26,080,000Unfunded debt
26,080,000Unfunded debt£420,305,000Funded debt
£420,305,000Funded debtBRITISH DEBT AT THE UNION.
BRITISH DEBT AT THE UNION.
£16,821,000Total charge
£16,821,000Total charge1,021,000Ditto of unfunded
1,021,000Ditto of unfunded£15,800,000Charge of funded debt
£15,800,000Charge of funded debtANNUAL INTEREST.
ANNUAL INTEREST.£446,385,000Total debt
£446,385,000Total debt26,080,000Unfunded debt
26,080,000Unfunded debt£420,305,000Funded debt
£420,305,000Funded debtBRITISH DEBT AT THE UNION.
BRITISH DEBT AT THE UNION.795l."In respect to the past expenses, Ireland had no concern whatever with the debt of Great Britain, but the two countries were to unite as to future expenses, on a strict measure of relative ability. He should have considered it a most valuable circumstance in this arrangement if the countries could have been so completely incorporated as not to have had distinct revenues, a part of the system of the Scots' union, which had been felt to be of such importance that a great effort was made to equalize the circumstances of the two countries for that purpose. England had a large debt, Scotland had none charged upon her revenues; an accurate calculation was made of the sum to be paid to Scotland, to justify her in accepting her share of the debt, and the sum was paid accordingly by England. The taxation of the two countries was accordingly fixed at the same proportion, except in the instance of the land-tax, which was fixed at a different ratio, because the land-tax in England was imposed so unequally, that had Scotland paid in the same rate as the nominal tax of England, she would really have been taxed much higher than her just proportion. He mentioned this to show the pains that had been taken to incorporate the two countries, as well in point of finance as other circumstances; but in the present situation of these countries, this part of the system could not be adopted. Great Britain now paid in taxes for interest on her debt ten millions annually (it was nearly 17,000,000l.l.l.794l.l.793Mr. O'Connell
 said, the bill was so unfair and unequal in its operation, that he could not believe the House would adopt it without further alteration. In the clause before the Committee the original proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was, that the additional duty should be levied from the 15th of May, but he submitted, that although that arrangement might seem to be fair, it inflicted a hardship on parties dealing in the articles. Though there was a proviso with respect to contracts, yet there might be virtual agreements made, which would not have the benefit of the clause. Instead of fixing a particular day when the duty should commence, the fairest way would be to levy it from and after the passing of the bill. It was bad both in principle and practice to charge the duty from the passing of the resolution of this House.Mr. W. Attwood
805d, rose to propose certain amendments, limiting the increase of duty on Scotch and Irish spirits to five per cent, on the existing duties. He did not propose to interfere with English spirits, rum and brandy; Irish spirits, or Scotch spirits, coming to England would be subject to the 4805d,Captain Jones
807 could not support the proposed increase of duty, as in his opinion it would give a great stimulus to
807Sir Robert Ferguson
 said, it was difficult to frame a provision which should not in some individual cases produce hardship, but a similar clause had been introduced into other acts by which duties had been increased, and upon the whole it appeared fairer, that the buyer should pay the extra duty, which was not taken into account when the bargain was made.The Chancellor of' the Exchequer
 said, the exemption did not apply to the property, but to the person. He thought it desirable to add a clause to the present bill to carry into effect the object intended to be secured by the last act on the subject.Mr. Jervis
 observed, that the number of post-horses on the road to Windsor, had amazingly diminished of late.Captain Berkeley
d.s.s.l.l.,798 expressed his regret at being compelled to differ with the hon. Member for Lincolnshire, but he must do
d.s.s.l.l.,798Colonel Conolly
779 said, that he had, by direction of the Secretary of State for the
779Mr. F. Maule
 felt, that it was quite impossible for him to speak with any certainty as to the measures which might be taken with respect to Mr. Bejet; the Governor-general of the colony, who was on the spot, must judge of the danger to be apprehended to the province from the liberation of any persons now in custody. He was led to believe that Mr. Bejet, who was one of the richest men in Lower Canada, had been concerned in giving aid to a most atrocious rebellion, which had been accompanied with some most cruel, revolting, and sanguinary murders. But as the hon. and learned Gentleman had just acknowledged, Mr. Bejet, if he had given the required sureties, would not have been detained in custody. If this bill should be passed, and if a representative form of government should again be restored to Canada, he was quite sure that there would be a desire to overlook all that had occurred, so far as was consistent with the security of the province. He had no doubt that under such circumstances, the restrictive system would no longer be continued.Lord J. Russell
 said, the object of the differential duty had been, not to put one penny more into the Exchequer, but to give employment to 1,000 ships, and 15,000 seamen, at a time when they were debarred from employment in the Baltic. This was the consideration which had induced the Timber committee to come to the resolution, and he thought no measure had been more satisfactory to the country generally than the present scale of duties. Timber was an article of such importance to us, that we must draw it from every part of the globe.Mr. A. Chapman
 as one of that committee, must say, that the present scale of duty was considered unfair and unequal, and a reduction had been recommended. He regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer could not now state the course he intended to take; it was of great importance that the trade should know it.Mr. Hawes,
 rose to propose the omission of a clause. Its effect was, to impose the extra duty upon the buyer, where a contract for the sale of goods was not completed at the time fixed for the act to come into operation. This would operate very unjustly where the bargain was made upon the understanding, that the duty was included in the price.Mr. B. Wood
800l.l.799l.l. said, he had felt it his duty to second the motion, and after listening to the speeches of hon. Members on both sides of the House, he must say that the motion had not been fully and fairly discussed. These hon. Gentlemen, who came from the other side of the channel had carefully watched their own interests, and showed zeal for their country; but all parties had suffered the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer to escape both on this and on former occasions. The right hon. Gentleman, ay, the whole of the Ministers ought to be told, that they had no business to entail upon either England or Ireland any new lax at all. The statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer showed that there had been gross mismanagement of the finances of the country, and hence had arisen the necessity for this new taxation. He was astonished to see the public money voted away in so thin a House. To be sure, hon. Gentlemen pleaded that it was their dinner hour, but let them remember that they might deprive many a poor man of his dinner. He observed a noble Lord smiling. Why, did not the noble Lord know that very often there was not a single Minister in his place to answer a question? He was sorry that steps were not taken to oust such Ministers altogether. Some people might say we cannot find better. One thing he knew, it was impossible to find worse. They had got into place and power by professing to be friends and promoters of economy and retrenchment. What taxes had they reduced? Why, the duty on balsam of copaiba, and on shepherd's dogs, and such like trumpery matters. The right hon. Gentleman knew that the increase of taxation was only the beginning of the mischief. He could foretell that in the next Session of Parliament 3,000,000800l.l.799l.l.Colonel Sibthorp
 considered, that this tax pressed very unfairly, and was for taking it off altogether.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, it was quite clear, that the English and Scottish distillers were not likely to suffer, whereas the Irish had not been aware of the measure intended. There was not less than 20,000 puncheons of spirits now on the hands of the distillers in Ireland which would be affected by this proposed increase of duty, and he would contend, that never had there been any duty which was so unpalatable to the capitalists in spirits in Ireland as this would be. The unanimous opinion in that country was, that the additional duty would not be of any advantage to the revenue, but that, on the contrary, it would encourage illicit distillation. He therefore hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not press the proposition he had made.Mr. Callaghan
ex post factol. observed, that by some means or other the English distillers obtained information beforehand, which enabled them to get rid of their stocks of spirits, and the result would be, that not 500ex post factol.Mr. Lucas
 said, that Ireland was already sufficiently taxed, and he thought the proposition of the hon. Member would be unproductive of any real good, he could not support it.Mr. Lucas
 so far agreed in opinion with the hon. Member for Kent, that if he thought an increased duty would lead to a diminution in the consumption of spirits, he would give his vote in favour of the additional rate, but as he believed, that it would not have that effect, and that on the contrary it would encourage illicit distillation, he should vote for the amendment of the hon. Member for Londonderry.Mr. Shaw
 was glad to hear that it was the intention of the right hon. Gentleman to alter this bill so far as it related to Baltic timber. He was sure if an increased duty was placed on timber from the Baltic, as was originally proposed, that such a course would not only cause a serious loss or ruin to many persons engaged in the trade, but would also have the worst effect upon the revenue. He was, therefore, happy that an alteration in respect to timber was to be made in the bill.Mr. Grote
d. was of opinion, that if the additional duty of 4d.Mr. Home Drummond
d.d.,s. said it was true, that in 1830 the duty was 2d.d.,s.Mr. Goulburn
803 said, that if the right hon. Gentleman admitted a distinction with respect to timber from the fear that an increase of duty would cause a loss to the revenue, he would warn the right hon. Gentleman that the same principle would be found to apply to other articles, and that he would be asked to make other exemptions from the operation of this bill. For himself, if timber were exempted, he should feel considerable difficulty with respect to spirits, on which the
803Mr. Goulburn
 agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) that this would be an inauspicious moment to deprive Canadian timber of any advantage. With respect to the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, a person largely concerned in the timber trade with the Baltic, as well as Canada, had stated to him, that the proposed alteration would diminish instead of augment the revenue. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman if he contemplated any further alteration in the bill, or intended to adhere to it with this single exception?Mr. Kemble
 observed, that innkeepers felt it to be a grievance, that while the duty on shop windows had been repealed, their bar windows still remained liable to tax.Mr. Fector
 thought it a hard case upon English gentlemen that Irish gentlemen should be thus exempted, and on bringing up the report he should move the insertion of a clause for the purpose of taxing the horses and carriages of Irishmen resident in England to the same extent as the horses and carriages of Englishmen were taxed, which was not the case at present.Mr. Humphery
 wished to asked the right hon. Gentleman whether gentlemen who came from Ireland, bringing their own carriages, horses, servants, &c. with them, were exempt from the payment of assessed taxes while they remained in this country?Mr. Humphery
 supported the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and would have been better pleased if a heavier duty on spirits had been proposed, so that the system of gin drinking might be checked.Mr. Plumptre
810 thought the increase of the assessed taxes would restrict the present franchise under the registration law, and he trusted the new act for the registration of voters would pass, and relieve
810Mr. Brotherton
 observed, that the right hon. Gentleman had givan no answer to the question respecting the assessment of reopened windows. Would old windows opened since the passing of the act of 4th and 5th William 4th on this subject, be liable to assessment under the new survey? Lord Althorp had given a distinct pledge that they should not be assessed.Mr. Hume
 expressed a hope that the Habeas Corpus Act would no longer remain suspended in this province, as a most respectable Gentleman, seventy-five years of age, had now been immured in a dungeon for more than three years, and had never been brought to trial even before a court-martial. The sufferings of the Italian prisoners in the dungeons of Austria, had not been more atrocious than the sufferings inflicted by the British Government on some of the most virtuous citizens in Lower Canada.Mr. Hume
 was of opinion, that if the carriage tax were removed altogether, the horse tax would more than make up the difference.Mr. Hume
 said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer ought to give a schedule to show how the five per cent, would bear upon particular articles.Mr. Hume
804 was surprised that the hon. Member for Whitby should have stated, that the present scale of duty was satisfactory; every consumer of timber disapproved of it. He hoped the time was not far distant when the Chancellor of the
804Mr. Hume
784783"The opinion of France is, that the independence of Turkey should be maintained; but by the word independence, we do not mean an impossibility. France believes, at least her cabinets have believed, that to maintain the Turkish empire, could not mean the restoration to the Turkish empire of all the provinces which have been successively detached from it; but we have thought, that to maintain the Turkish empire was to prevent any new dismemberment; and, if by the side of the Turkish empire a new empire had risen up which consented to the bond of vassalage which consented, as in other times, to be the faithful vassal of the Turkish empire—that if Egypt had succeeded better than Constantinople in arranging her finances and in creating an army which, though they do not resemble our finances nor our army, are yet superior to, those of Constantinople, it would be a real service to the Turkish empire to give to it the Pacha of Egypt as an ally, for besides the Turkish empire, which might defend itself, you would have the rear guard of a powerful vassal, useful and able to support the Sultan in moments of difficulty."Moniteur,782l. said, that as that bill imposed a taxation of more than 2,000,000784783"The opinion of France is, that the independence of Turkey should be maintained; but by the word independence, we do not mean an impossibility. France believes, at least her cabinets have believed, that to maintain the Turkish empire, could not mean the restoration to the Turkish empire of all the provinces which have been successively detached from it; but we have thought, that to maintain the Turkish empire was to prevent any new dismemberment; and, if by the side of the Turkish empire a new empire had risen up which consented to the bond of vassalage which consented, as in other times, to be the faithful vassal of the Turkish empire—that if Egypt had succeeded better than Constantinople in arranging her finances and in creating an army which, though they do not resemble our finances nor our army, are yet superior to, those of Constantinople, it would be a real service to the Turkish empire to give to it the Pacha of Egypt as an ally, for besides the Turkish empire, which might defend itself, you would have the rear guard of a powerful vassal, useful and able to support the Sultan in moments of difficulty."Moniteur,782l.Mr. Hume
 wished to know if the British Government were acting in accordance with the French, as was stated in the Speech from the Throne?Mr. Hume
d.,s.d.d.,s.d.s.d.792 said, that it was very far from his intention to rise for the purpose of seconding the motion of his hon. Friend. There was very little indeed of what had fallen from him in which he could concur; but he could concur with him on one point, and that was, that in his opinion the mode by which the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to supply the deficiency in the revenue was a partial one, but it was by no means partial towards Ireland. He conceived that the mode adopted was both unjust and inconsistent. The assessed taxes had indeed been remitted to Ireland, but it was not from any feeling of liberality, but because those taxes had not been productive. An immense staff was necessary for their collection, and he believed that the income received was exceedingly small, and that was the ground on which the remission had been made. But his hon. Friend had said, that Ireland had been benefitted by those causes which had led to the present deficiency. His
d.,s.d.d.,s.d.s.d.792Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 deprecated the plan, as falling more heavily on Ireland and Scotland than on England, and, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had listened to reason on one item of his proposed taxation—namely, the timber trade—he hoped he would also take into consideration the inequality with which this tax would bear on the three kingdoms.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 could find no clause in the act of Parliament carrying out the pledge which the hon. Member for Kilkenny said, had been given by Lord Althorp. All reopened windows would consequently be assessed under the new survey.Mr. Godson
 said, that if the hon. Alderman near him (Alderman Humphrey) proposed to tax Irishmen residing in England higher than Englishmen, he should be glad to second that motion, as such a course would, he hoped, have the effect of inducing Irishmen to reside in their own country, and to spend their money there.Mr. D. Browne
791790 rose, in pursuance of notice to move, "that it is the opinion of this House (as the people of Ireland do not contribute to the assessed taxes) that in any additional taxation that may be required to make up the deficiency of the
791790Mr. Christopher
 had no fear of this additional tax leading to smuggling in Scotland, as that system had received a most effectual check by the last enactment on this subject.Mr. R. Steuart
 proposed as an amendment, that the words referring to carriages kept to be let on hire be omitted, which would exonerate them from all taxation.Mr. Gillon
 said, that the pledge given by Lord Althorp was to the effect, not merely that these re-opened windows should be free from assessment, but that the first tax repealed should be the window tax. Instead of this being done, an increased duty was now laid on windows.Sir B. Hall
 felt, that he should be acting a most unmanly part, if he did not support the proposition that Mr. Bejet, whose acquaintance and hospitality he had enjoyed whilst acting as a commissioner in Canada, should be immediately discharged. He believed it was the mode in which his property was implicated with the ecclesiastical seigneuries of Canada, that had prevented him from giving to the British Government the sureties, which it had demanded as a preliminary condition to his liberation.Sir C. Grey
814 said, that his impression with respect to Mr. Bejet was, that he,.
814Sir C. Grey
l. said, that he would be very much disposed to do so; but that as it amounted to the sum of 154,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that if the House thought such a clause desirable, he had no objection to its introduction.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the provisions of the act alluded to should be strictly adhered to, and the attention of the surveyors had been directed to them. The assurance given by the act of Parliament would not in the slightest degree be infringed by the present bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not think the hon. Member could expect to succeed in his proposition. Considerable reduction had been made in this tax, and he could not make any concession with respect to it upon the present occasion. He admitted the tax was unpopular. He did not enter into the defence of any single item. The bill must be taken as a whole.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 referred to the last act, and quoted a clause exempting all windows re-opened since the passing of that act from assessment. The same exemption did not apply to newly built windows.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
s.d.s.d.,s.d.,s.d.s.806s.,d.s.d.s.d.s.d. was understood to say, it was impossible, that any of the parties concerned could have obtained the least information upon this subject one hour earlier than the others. Knowing the state of the revenue, it was perfectly natural, that persons engaged in the manufacture of spirits should anticipate the possibility of being subjected to increased taxation, and, apprehensive that they could not escape the Chancellor of the Exchequer, took their measures accordingly. The question which the House had to decide was, whether there should be a per centage or not. Now, he contended, that spirits were a very proper object of taxation, and then the only practical question which remained was, whether 4s.d.s.d.,s.d.,s.d.s.806s.,d.s.d.s.d.s.d.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he did not intend to propose any other alteration in the bill except verbal alterations, and if any should be proposed, he meant to oppose them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that they were protected under a special act; but gentlemen arriving earlier than the opening of the Parliamentary session, and staying after its close, would be liable.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
s.;s.802 said, he would avail himself of that opportunity to state the course which he intended to pursue with respect to Baltic timber, which was one of the articles affected by this bill. He had received many communications on the subject, and he had endeavoured to ascertain the real facts of the case by every means in his power. He was bound to say, according to the best information which he had been able
s.;s.802The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished it to be distinctly understood that it was not at all with reference to an alteration of the scale of duties that he made the proposition; so far from it, that he believed that by the alteration he should propose, he should leave the question which had been mooted, and respecting which a great variety of opinions prevailed, in a better state for Canadian interests; for he was satisfied, from the communications he had received, that the additional burthen which by the bill he originally had imposed on Baltic timber would have caused more difficulty and doubt than by the course he now proposed to take.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
809s. proposed to add a proviso, excepting windows from the proposed additional tax of 2809s.Captain Pechell
 wished to ask the hon. Gentleman, the Under-Secretary for the Colonies whether, as had been promised, any inquiry had been made into the case of Nathaniel Cave?Mr. Easthope
 thought this was a proper subject for inquiry, as the first step to equal justice to Ireland, for he could not see why Irishmen living under the protection of British laws should not be taxed to an equal extent with Englishmen. He could not understand what objection there could be to equal taxation. If, however, this motion came to a division now, he was afraid the minority would be such as to compromise the question in some degree, and he therefore hoped it would not be pressed at present.Mr. J. Jervis
 said, what the speech stated was, that the concord of the five Powers on the Belgian question had led to satisfactory results, and it was hoped that the same concord would bring the questions pending between Turkey and Egypt to an amicable termination. He had not abandoned that hope.Viscount Palmerston
789788787786785 said, that his hon. Friend had placed him in considerable difficulty, by endeavouring to draw him into what he regarded as a premature discussion of the details of a negotiation which had not been concluded, and it would be very prejudicial to the public interests if he were to discuss it in the manner in which his hon. Friend had invited him. It would not be consistent with the public interests, with those interests especially of which the department over which he presided was charged with the conduct, to state to his hon. Friend all the particulars which he wished to know; yet he did feel t his duty to assure the House that almost very assertion which his hon. Friend had made as to the folly of the course pursued by this country, as to the communications which had taken place between this country and other powers, as to the conduct of her Majesty's Ambassador at Constantinople, and as to the desires and wishes of
789788787786785Viscount Palmerston
*"That, under these circumstances, it is expedient that a free passage to those colonies which offer the greatest rewards to industry should be provided by the State for such of the labouring classes as are disposed to emigrate thither.""That, in several of the British colonies, the demand for labour is urgent, continuous, and incieasing, and its remuneration is comparatively ample, whilst the prosperity of these colonies is much retarded by its inadequate supply:"That, in Great Britain and Ireland, the working classes are frequently exposed to extreme privation, from inability to procure employment:And make new nations.""Wherever the bright sun of heaven shall shine, Her honour and the greatness of her name shall be,867866865864l.dsdsl.863l.l.l.862l.l.861860859l.858l.857minimum856l.855sl.854l.dsl.l.l.l.853"You may be assured that you have not expressed yourself too strongly respecting the favourable change in the condition of the poor Irish who were taken to Upper Canada in 1823 and 1825, in consequence of your benevolent exertions.…You would find the former
853l.l.l.852cœteris paribusvacuumvacuum851vacuumLabitur et labetur in omne volubilis ævum.—Expectat dum defluit amnis, at illel.850l.849848"The high price of labour, owing to the insufficiency of its labouring population, which prevails throughout the province, is confessedly cramping the enterprise and exertions, and otherwise operating most injuriously upon its commercial and agricultural interests; and this consideration would alone appear to me
848l.sl.dsds"I feel some difficulty in stating the precise number of emigrants who might probably find employment in the company's lands, in the Huron tract, or in other parts of the province, this season. I feel confident that many thousands might readily find such employment. The opinion I have heard from Upper Canada is, that nothing is so much required to promote the prosperity of that country as an abundant supply of labour." (He adds,—) "The current wages in the company's lands vary from 3dsds847l.l."We would respectfully suggest to your Majesty the paramount subject of emigration from the British Isles, which we consider the best calculated to render the united province British in fact as well as in name. No time, in our humble opinion, should be lost, in the establishment and vigorous prosecution of a well-organised system of emigration, calculated to afford every possible facility to the settlement of that extensive domain, the proceeds of which have been proposed to be surrendered to the control of the provincial Legislature, upon certain terms and conditions, which, in Upper and Lower Canada, is, at present, in right of the Crown, at your Majesty's disposal.846ssdsdssl.s"The demand for domestic and farm servants, mechanics, and even common labourers, being very great and urgent in the colony (more especially since the emancipation of the negro apprentices), and likely to continue so for many years, this scarcity presents a certain prospect to the apprentices and working classes of every description, whether artisan or labourer, of being able to obtain a comfortable livelihood and maintenance, where good character exists, and ordinary exertion and prudence accompany that good conduct…. The average rate of wages for domestic servants is from 1ssdsdssl.s845"That the Council is unanimously of opinion, that there is an urgent and immediate necessity for procuring a supply of labour.""In the present state of the colony, there is such a deficiency of labour as to impede its advancement. The prudent portion of the workmen have saved means, and are now in a condition to extend their business and to hire assistance, if they could procure it; but they cannot venture to undertake works in the existing scarcity of workmen, and the consequent high rate of wages."844l."At the date of the latest accounts, abundance of rain had fallen, and the crops were looking well. The wages of mechanics and domestic servants continued as high as ever; and agricultural labourers were receiving 25l."It will be evident that there cannot he a stronger proof of the great demand for labour which exists in this colony, than the fact, that all the emigrants who arrived during the past year, notwithstanding the numerous disadvantages before adverted to, which they had to contend with, are now comfortably settled, and at high wages, throughout the colony.""It appears, that among the entire number consulted, there is not a dissentient voice us to the want of additional labourers in every department; and the imperative necessity of introducing an immediate and copious supply, if we would avert the most serious evils, has been urged most forcibly upon the attention of your committee.…. The appropriation to this purpose of the entire surplus of the produce arising from the sales and leases of Crown lands, after certain recognised charges have been defrayed, is the object upon which the first degree of solicitude is felt and expressed by the public."843"Is there still an urgent demand for male and female domestic servants, mechanics, shepherds, and agricultural labourers, in your neighbourhood?""The losses that are at present sustained in every department of business in which labourers are employed, but especially in sheep farming, by actual deaths of sheep, are enormous; and the amount of thorn, if saved, would cover the expense of wages to this additional number of persons,""I am at present compelled, from sheer necessity, to place from 1,000 to 1,200 sheep under the charge of one man; 500 being the very utmost that a man can properly attend to.""I have at this moment, before me, from 10,000 to 12,000 applications, which, from dearth of means, I have not been able to comply with."ss"During the last two years, I have found it impossible to procure sufficient labour in any shape. I was offering 7ss842841l.s840839dss838l.l.837"That the appalling state of want to which many thousands of the inhabitants of the Highlands, and islands of Scotland were reduced in the year 1837, and the misery that has existed in some of the Highland districts since that period, now loudly demand the adoption of an extensive and systematic plan of emigration, as the only means of preventing a recurrence, year after year, of the same degree of frightful distress and suffering."836l.835834l.l.833**. In bringing forward the motion of which I have given notice, I feel that I can advance no claim to the attention of the House, founded upon my own ability to do adequate justice to the subject which I have undertaken to submit for its consideration, but I confidently ask for that attention, on account of the intrinsic importance of the subject itself. It wants, indeed, the stimulating excitement which belongs to party questions, and which never fails to produce a full attendance of Members in this House; but there surely cannot be presented for the deliberation of the representative assembly of an empire possessing such vast colonial dominions as belong to Great Britain, any question more worthy to engage its most anxious consideration than the inquiry whether, by a well-regulated system of colonisation, it may not be in our power at once to relieve the
"That, under these circumstances, it is expedient that a free passage to those colonies which offer the greatest rewards to industry should be provided by the State for such of the labouring classes as are disposed to emigrate thither.""That, in several of the British colonies, the demand for labour is urgent, continuous, and incieasing, and its remuneration is comparatively ample, whilst the prosperity of these colonies is much retarded by its inadequate supply:"That, in Great Britain and Ireland, the working classes are frequently exposed to extreme privation, from inability to procure employment:And make new nations.""Wherever the bright sun of heaven shall shine, Her honour and the greatness of her name shall be,867866865864l.dsdsl.863l.l.l.862l.l.861860859l.858l.857minimum856l.855sl.854l.dsl.l.l.l.853"You may be assured that you have not expressed yourself too strongly respecting the favourable change in the condition of the poor Irish who were taken to Upper Canada in 1823 and 1825, in consequence of your benevolent exertions.…You would find the former
853l.l.l.852cœteris paribusvacuumvacuum851vacuumLabitur et labetur in omne volubilis ævum.—Expectat dum defluit amnis, at illel.850l.849848"The high price of labour, owing to the insufficiency of its labouring population, which prevails throughout the province, is confessedly cramping the enterprise and exertions, and otherwise operating most injuriously upon its commercial and agricultural interests; and this consideration would alone appear to me
848l.sl.dsds"I feel some difficulty in stating the precise number of emigrants who might probably find employment in the company's lands, in the Huron tract, or in other parts of the province, this season. I feel confident that many thousands might readily find such employment. The opinion I have heard from Upper Canada is, that nothing is so much required to promote the prosperity of that country as an abundant supply of labour." (He adds,—) "The current wages in the company's lands vary from 3dsds847l.l."We would respectfully suggest to your Majesty the paramount subject of emigration from the British Isles, which we consider the best calculated to render the united province British in fact as well as in name. No time, in our humble opinion, should be lost, in the establishment and vigorous prosecution of a well-organised system of emigration, calculated to afford every possible facility to the settlement of that extensive domain, the proceeds of which have been proposed to be surrendered to the control of the provincial Legislature, upon certain terms and conditions, which, in Upper and Lower Canada, is, at present, in right of the Crown, at your Majesty's disposal.846ssdsdssl.s"The demand for domestic and farm servants, mechanics, and even common labourers, being very great and urgent in the colony (more especially since the emancipation of the negro apprentices), and likely to continue so for many years, this scarcity presents a certain prospect to the apprentices and working classes of every description, whether artisan or labourer, of being able to obtain a comfortable livelihood and maintenance, where good character exists, and ordinary exertion and prudence accompany that good conduct…. The average rate of wages for domestic servants is from 1ssdsdssl.s845"That the Council is unanimously of opinion, that there is an urgent and immediate necessity for procuring a supply of labour.""In the present state of the colony, there is such a deficiency of labour as to impede its advancement. The prudent portion of the workmen have saved means, and are now in a condition to extend their business and to hire assistance, if they could procure it; but they cannot venture to undertake works in the existing scarcity of workmen, and the consequent high rate of wages."844l."At the date of the latest accounts, abundance of rain had fallen, and the crops were looking well. The wages of mechanics and domestic servants continued as high as ever; and agricultural labourers were receiving 25l."It will be evident that there cannot he a stronger proof of the great demand for labour which exists in this colony, than the fact, that all the emigrants who arrived during the past year, notwithstanding the numerous disadvantages before adverted to, which they had to contend with, are now comfortably settled, and at high wages, throughout the colony.""It appears, that among the entire number consulted, there is not a dissentient voice us to the want of additional labourers in every department; and the imperative necessity of introducing an immediate and copious supply, if we would avert the most serious evils, has been urged most forcibly upon the attention of your committee.…. The appropriation to this purpose of the entire surplus of the produce arising from the sales and leases of Crown lands, after certain recognised charges have been defrayed, is the object upon which the first degree of solicitude is felt and expressed by the public."843"Is there still an urgent demand for male and female domestic servants, mechanics, shepherds, and agricultural labourers, in your neighbourhood?""The losses that are at present sustained in every department of business in which labourers are employed, but especially in sheep farming, by actual deaths of sheep, are enormous; and the amount of thorn, if saved, would cover the expense of wages to this additional number of persons,""I am at present compelled, from sheer necessity, to place from 1,000 to 1,200 sheep under the charge of one man; 500 being the very utmost that a man can properly attend to.""I have at this moment, before me, from 10,000 to 12,000 applications, which, from dearth of means, I have not been able to comply with."ss"During the last two years, I have found it impossible to procure sufficient labour in any shape. I was offering 7ss842841l.s840839dss838l.l.837"That the appalling state of want to which many thousands of the inhabitants of the Highlands, and islands of Scotland were reduced in the year 1837, and the misery that has existed in some of the Highland districts since that period, now loudly demand the adoption of an extensive and systematic plan of emigration, as the only means of preventing a recurrence, year after year, of the same degree of frightful distress and suffering."836l.835834l.l.833**Mr. William S.O'Brien
875874Hutt873 did not rise to express any difference of opinion from those hon. Gentlemen who had preceded him, and who had expressed a general concurrence in the views stated by the hon. mover of this question; and he shared in the satisfaction which they had said they felt at the subject being brought before the House; his difference from the hon. mover, he was bound to say, was rather in those general positions on which the hon. Member had based his proposition, than in the conclusion to which he had arrived.
875874Hutt873Mr. Villiers
 thought that the great evil which arose from emigration had been lost sight of, and it was this, that the persons who went out were the strong and adult part of the people. The country lost the most intelligent and industrious, and consequently the most productive part of the population. The expense of bringing up the labourer was borne in this country, and to induce him to emigrate when his labour became valuable, was like exporting a ready made machine. Such a proceeding might be necessary as a temporary remedy for a temporary superabundance of population, but such could not be proper to be adopted systematically.Mr. Pryme
884l.l.883882Ward.O'Brien said, however, he might rejoice at the prospect of his noble Friend being relieved from some portion of his labours by devolving this matter to a committee, yet the doing so would tend to embarrass the Colonial-office. With respect to the second resolution of the hon. Member, there could be no doubt that a difficulty of finding employment existed in England, and particularly in Ireland, and that a want of labourers existed in all our colonies. But when he proposed to place upon the books of the House a resolution that the remuneration for labour in the colonies was ample, he was not prepared to admit that it was so in all the colonies. The prosperity of some of the colonies and their climate had often been painted in too vivid colours. After stating his premises in his first two resolutions, the hon. Member jumped rather hastily to a conclusion, that a free passage should be provided by the Stale for such of the labouring classes as were disposed to emigrate, by which he understood that a sum of money should be offered to every one who wished to leave this country, who might do so at the public expense. [Mr. 884l.l.883882Ward.O'BrienMr. Vernon Smith
894 replied. He objected as strongly as any person to the system of turning out the peasantry which had been alluded to. He wished to have a measure to encourage emigration subsidiary to the Poor-laws in England and Ireland. He was of opinion that the Ministers ought not to allow people to starve in this country whilst there was such a demand for labour in the colonies. He did not think that British Guiana was a fair case to
894Mr. S. O'Brien
900Western Vindicator said that, as one of the magistrates for the county of Monmouth, and for the districts which bad been disturbed, he felt called upon to state that he looked upon Mr. Vincent as the chief cause of all those disastrous events which had occurred since his imprisonment. That individual originally by his great talent in addressing large bodies of people, and subsequently by the ability with which he had conducted the paper called the 900Western Vindicator(Monmouth)Mr. Williams (Monmouth)
 conceived, that the species of imprisonment adopted in this case would create a popular sympathy much more dangerous than any of the writings of Mr. Vincent could possibly produce.Mr. Aglionhy
872Cheers.l.sl.l.l. thought the House was much indebted to the hon. Gentleman for bringing this subject under its consideration, but there was one colony to which the attention of hon. Members had not been directed on the present occasion—he meant New South Wales. In the year 1831, it was determined that sales of land should take place, and from that time down to this period, sales had been effected by the Government to the amount of 800,000872Cheers.l.sl.l.l.Captain Boldero
902901Western Vindicator said, his hon. and learned Friend had not previously informed him of the nature of the motion with which he intended to conclude; but he was prepared to say, without, he hoped, exposing himself to any charge of inhumanity, that he could not meet his motion with any assent. When he looked at the conduct of Mr. Vincent and the grounds on which sentence had been passed upon him, he must say, that he thought there was some risk in arousing at the present moment the popular sympathy for one who had done so much to disturb the public peace. He was quite ready to admit that whatever was the sentence passed on Vincent, there was no right inherent in any party to make that sentence stronger. The facts were these:—Vincent, when sentence was first passed upon him, was confined in Monmouth gaol, where, as the hon. and learned Gentleman admitted, indulgences were afforded him that were not generally afforded to persons so confined. One of those indulgencies was, that he was allowed the use of writing materials in the prison, but the use which he made of them was to continue to conduct the 902901Western VindicatorMr. Fox Maule
913"Barnard Hague, Esq. York Castle.""S. M. PHILLIPPS."Your obedient humble servant,"I am, Sir,"Lord Normanby cannot give his approval to the two rules which you have transmitted for his signature, because they do not appear to have been approved by the magistrates assembled at a special court of gaol sessions, which is indispensably necessary."Lord Normanby is of opinion also, that Mr. O'Connor should be allowed to see his relations and friends occasionally, and oftener than the general regulation would allow, but not so as to interfere with the good order of the prison."It appears to Lord Normanby that if Mr. O'Connor wishes to provide himself with more convenient and suitable bed or bedding, this should be allowed; and that instead of a common prisoner's cell, he should have assigned to him as convenient a room as can be provided on that side of the prison where he is to be lawfully confined."In reply to the inquiry what exceptions are to be made in Mr. O'Connor's favour, Lord Normanby refers you to the general instructions before given, especially to that contained in my letter of the 27th; namely, that there ought to be nothing of degradation or personal indignity in the treatment of Mr. O'Connor, or anything which might operate with unusual and disproportionate severity with reference to his state of health, or his former habits of life. Lord Normanby trusts that this general rule will be more useful for the guidance of the magistrates than any enumeration of minute particulars; but, if you wish for directions on any specific point to which you think this general rule does not apply, his Lordship requests you to inform him.912"Sir—I am directed by the Marquess of Normanby to acknowledge the receipt of your three letters of the 28th instant, respecting Mr. Feargus O'Connor."Whitehall, May 30, 1840."Chairman of the Visiting Magistrates of York Castle.""BARNARD HAGUE,"Your Lordship's most obedient servant,"I have the honour to be,"My Lord—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Lordship's letter of yesterday's date, and I beg to refer your Lordship to our letters of this day's date, written previous to the receipt of your last letters, in which you will receive an answer to the queries respecting the diet and discipline observed towards Mr. Feargus O'Connor, with the directions of the surgeon who attends daily. Mr. O'Connor has not made any application for other medical advice, and therefore no refusal can or has been given. Mr. O'Connor has expressed to us his satisfaction with the treatment he has received, and is much better in health than when he arrived at York Castle. Being the only misdemeanant, he would have been in solitary confinement, had not two of the most respectable of the prisoners been placed in the day ward by the desire of Mr. O'Connor himself, as stated in our letter of this morning."York Castle, May 28, 1840."To her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Home Department.""Chairman of the Visiting Magistrates."BARNARD HAGUE,"Your Lordship's obedient, humble servant,911"My Lord—I beg to inform your Lordship that Mr. Feargus O'Connor arrived at York Castle on Tuesday, May 19, at ten o'clock at night, and on the following day was asked by the chairman of the visiting magistrates, in the presence of the gaoler, whether he wished
911"York Castle, May 28, 1840."Visiting Magistrates, York Castle.'"S. M. PHILLIPPS."I am, Gentlemen, your obedient humble servant,"Lord Normanby desires me to observe, that there ought to be nothing of degradation or personal indignity in the treatment of Mr. O'Connor, nor anything which may operate with unusual and disproportionate severity, with reference to his state of health or his former habits of life."It states, among other particulars, that Mr. O'Connor has been associated with felons. Lord Normanby must suppose that this part of the statement is erroneous, as it is expressly enacted by law, that misdemeanants and felons are to be formed into two separate classes."Gentlemen—Since my letter to you of this day's date, a statement has been presented to the Marquess of-Normanby by Mr. Sergeant Talfourd, from Mr. Feargus O'Connor, relative to the treatment alleged to have been received by him in York Castle."Whitehall, 27th May, 1840."Visiting Justices of York Castle.""S. M. PHILLIPPS."Lord Normanby will be glad to have a copy of all the regulations of York Castle relating to misdemeanants and felons; and also to be furnished with the particulars of the treatment of Mr. O'Connor with respect to diet, place of confinement, and all other circumstances; and his Lordship further requests to know whether Mr. O'Connor has made any, and what, complaint of any part of his treatment, and whether anything, and what, has been done upon such complaint. I am, gentlemen, your obedient humble servant,910"Gentlemen—I am directed by the Mar-
910"Whitehall, 27th May, 1840."B. Hague, Esq., York Castle.""S. M. PHILLIPS."I am, sir, your obedient servant,"Regulations of a personal description, such as those relating to dress, &c. (which, though convenient in the common run of cases, might in some cases be looked upon as personal indignities) might, in the opinion of Lord Normanby, be properly dispensed with in the present case."In the case of Mr. Feargus O'Connor, Lord Normanby is of opinion that you might not improperly allow his professional agent or medical adviser to visit him, and occasionally relations; but so as not to allow such relaxation of the general regulation to interfere with the good order and discipline of the gaol. Lord Normanby thinks that the rules should not be relaxed for the purpose of affording facilities to Mr. Feargus O'Connor for the composition or issuing of political writings intended for publication."It appears to Lord Normanby that, in some cases of misdemeanour, it would be proper to give a discretionary power to magistrates (under the sanction of the Secretary of State) to alter or relax the existing gaol regulations, under special circumstances—with reference to the health, the station, the habits, or other particulars in the individual case—so that the punishment, affixed to the offence may not in some instances be disproportionately severe, and may not exceed the measure intended by the judge."Sir—I am directed by the Marquess of Normanby to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 22d instant, requesting instructions as to the admission of visitors to Mr. Feargus O'Connor, a prisoner in York Castle."Whitehall, May 25, 1840. had no hesitation in stating that, when the sentence of Mr. O'Connor was carried into effect, his noble Friend was not in the slightest degree aware of the indignities to which it was stated that Mr. O'Connor had been subjected. If the allegations in the petition were true, the treatment of Mr. O'Connor had been not only cruel, but such as had never been contemplated when the sentence was passed. Upon this subject, however, it would be more satisfactory to read to the House some communications which had taken place between his noble Friend the Secretary of State and the visiting justices of York Castle. The first was addressed to Mr. Hague, and was as follows:—
913"Barnard Hague, Esq. York Castle.""S. M. PHILLIPPS."Your obedient humble servant,"I am, Sir,"Lord Normanby cannot give his approval to the two rules which you have transmitted for his signature, because they do not appear to have been approved by the magistrates assembled at a special court of gaol sessions, which is indispensably necessary."Lord Normanby is of opinion also, that Mr. O'Connor should be allowed to see his relations and friends occasionally, and oftener than the general regulation would allow, but not so as to interfere with the good order of the prison."It appears to Lord Normanby that if Mr. O'Connor wishes to provide himself with more convenient and suitable bed or bedding, this should be allowed; and that instead of a common prisoner's cell, he should have assigned to him as convenient a room as can be provided on that side of the prison where he is to be lawfully confined."In reply to the inquiry what exceptions are to be made in Mr. O'Connor's favour, Lord Normanby refers you to the general instructions before given, especially to that contained in my letter of the 27th; namely, that there ought to be nothing of degradation or personal indignity in the treatment of Mr. O'Connor, or anything which might operate with unusual and disproportionate severity with reference to his state of health, or his former habits of life. Lord Normanby trusts that this general rule will be more useful for the guidance of the magistrates than any enumeration of minute particulars; but, if you wish for directions on any specific point to which you think this general rule does not apply, his Lordship requests you to inform him.912"Sir—I am directed by the Marquess of Normanby to acknowledge the receipt of your three letters of the 28th instant, respecting Mr. Feargus O'Connor."Whitehall, May 30, 1840."Chairman of the Visiting Magistrates of York Castle.""BARNARD HAGUE,"Your Lordship's most obedient servant,"I have the honour to be,"My Lord—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Lordship's letter of yesterday's date, and I beg to refer your Lordship to our letters of this day's date, written previous to the receipt of your last letters, in which you will receive an answer to the queries respecting the diet and discipline observed towards Mr. Feargus O'Connor, with the directions of the surgeon who attends daily. Mr. O'Connor has not made any application for other medical advice, and therefore no refusal can or has been given. Mr. O'Connor has expressed to us his satisfaction with the treatment he has received, and is much better in health than when he arrived at York Castle. Being the only misdemeanant, he would have been in solitary confinement, had not two of the most respectable of the prisoners been placed in the day ward by the desire of Mr. O'Connor himself, as stated in our letter of this morning."York Castle, May 28, 1840."To her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Home Department.""Chairman of the Visiting Magistrates."BARNARD HAGUE,"Your Lordship's obedient, humble servant,911"My Lord—I beg to inform your Lordship that Mr. Feargus O'Connor arrived at York Castle on Tuesday, May 19, at ten o'clock at night, and on the following day was asked by the chairman of the visiting magistrates, in the presence of the gaoler, whether he wished
911"York Castle, May 28, 1840."Visiting Magistrates, York Castle.'"S. M. PHILLIPPS."I am, Gentlemen, your obedient humble servant,"Lord Normanby desires me to observe, that there ought to be nothing of degradation or personal indignity in the treatment of Mr. O'Connor, nor anything which may operate with unusual and disproportionate severity, with reference to his state of health or his former habits of life."It states, among other particulars, that Mr. O'Connor has been associated with felons. Lord Normanby must suppose that this part of the statement is erroneous, as it is expressly enacted by law, that misdemeanants and felons are to be formed into two separate classes."Gentlemen—Since my letter to you of this day's date, a statement has been presented to the Marquess of-Normanby by Mr. Sergeant Talfourd, from Mr. Feargus O'Connor, relative to the treatment alleged to have been received by him in York Castle."Whitehall, 27th May, 1840."Visiting Justices of York Castle.""S. M. PHILLIPPS."Lord Normanby will be glad to have a copy of all the regulations of York Castle relating to misdemeanants and felons; and also to be furnished with the particulars of the treatment of Mr. O'Connor with respect to diet, place of confinement, and all other circumstances; and his Lordship further requests to know whether Mr. O'Connor has made any, and what, complaint of any part of his treatment, and whether anything, and what, has been done upon such complaint. I am, gentlemen, your obedient humble servant,910"Gentlemen—I am directed by the Mar-
910"Whitehall, 27th May, 1840."B. Hague, Esq., York Castle.""S. M. PHILLIPS."I am, sir, your obedient servant,"Regulations of a personal description, such as those relating to dress, &c. (which, though convenient in the common run of cases, might in some cases be looked upon as personal indignities) might, in the opinion of Lord Normanby, be properly dispensed with in the present case."In the case of Mr. Feargus O'Connor, Lord Normanby is of opinion that you might not improperly allow his professional agent or medical adviser to visit him, and occasionally relations; but so as not to allow such relaxation of the general regulation to interfere with the good order and discipline of the gaol. Lord Normanby thinks that the rules should not be relaxed for the purpose of affording facilities to Mr. Feargus O'Connor for the composition or issuing of political writings intended for publication."It appears to Lord Normanby that, in some cases of misdemeanour, it would be proper to give a discretionary power to magistrates (under the sanction of the Secretary of State) to alter or relax the existing gaol regulations, under special circumstances—with reference to the health, the station, the habits, or other particulars in the individual case—so that the punishment, affixed to the offence may not in some instances be disproportionately severe, and may not exceed the measure intended by the judge."Sir—I am directed by the Marquess of Normanby to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 22d instant, requesting instructions as to the admission of visitors to Mr. Feargus O'Connor, a prisoner in York Castle."Whitehall, May 25, 1840.Mr. Fox Maule
Western Vindicator, said, that it had been his misfortune to read several of the articles in the Western Vindicator,Lord G. Somerset
 begged to explain: He did not propose in any way that the House should interfere with the prerogative of mercy. But in stating the whole case, he was obliged to take into consideration what had been admitted by his hon. Friend, that the sentence was carried into effect with a severity which was not intended either by the judge or the Secretary of State, and that this severity arose from considerations affecting the public peace, and not from any fault of the individual. He said that, taking the whole case into consideration, the advisers of the Crown might properly consider this circumstance in reference to the duration of the imprisonment. In touching upon the question at all, he could not avoid that part of it, but he regretted that he should be supposed to have given any engagement to the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward the motion, which might interfere with the prerogative.Lord J. Russell
907 thought his hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department, had hardly been understood by several Gentlemen who had followed in the course of the debate. With, regard to Vincent, his hon. Friend had said, that having been concerned for several months in various parts of the country in exciting the people by speeches which were considered of so seditious a nature as to appear intended to excite the people to tumult and insurrection, a prosecution was resolved on, and sentence was passed upon him. The judge had conveyed an opinion, that he did not see that there ought to be in the execution of the sentence any undue harshness or severity. After that he (Lord John Russell) had communicated with some of the magistrates with regard to the treatment which the prisoner ought to receive, amongst other matters, as to the use of books; and with respect to that there did not appear to be any complaint of the treatment of the prisoner in Monmouth gaol. The ground of his being removed to the Penitentiary was not any thing done by him in Monmouth gaol, but that his presence there was used to keep up excitement and agitation among the people. When the insurrection took place, one of the objects held forth to the people was the liberation of Vincent. With respect to the question of his removal, the Secretary of State had by law the power to remove a prisoner from one gaol to another. There would have been an objection to remove a prisoner who was charged upon one county to another county, so as to become a charge upon that county, and therefore Vincent was removed to the Penitentiary. The rules of the Penitentiary certainly made the punishment more harsh and severe than the judge who pronounced the sentence, or the magistrates who carried it into execution at Monmouth, or the Secretary of State contemplated. That was certainly a reason for making some change. His noble Friend (Lord Normanby) proposed to bring in a measure to alter the law, which was at present very strict with regard to the punishment of prisoners in the Penitentiary, and gave power to relax rules in
907Lord John Russell
891890l.889888887886 said—Sir, it may be necessary for me, before this debate closes, to make some observations on the proposition of the hon. Gentleman and the discussion to which that proposition has given rise. The proposition of the hon. Gentleman is of a very general nature, affirming, in the first place, that it is desirable for persons who may be in distress to be enabled to go to the colonies, and, in the next, that as there is a demand for labour in the colonies, facilities of this kind would be highly useful. So far there is little doubt that the proposition might receive the assent of this House. The hon. Gentleman, however, goes on to affirm that "under these circumstances, it is expedient that a free passage to those colonies which offer the greatest rewards to industry should be provided by the State for
891890l.889888887886Lord J. Russell
 said, that by the Gaol Act, 3rd and 4th Geo. 4th, the visiting justices were empowered to alter and modify the rules and regulations of prisons in special cases; and, therefore, if there was blame to be attached to any party in this case, it was attached to the visiting justices of Monmouth in the first instance, who should have inquired whether there were special circumstances in the case, and if so should have acted accordingly. The Secretary of State had no discretion in the matter.Mr. Hawes
871 thought that the country was highly indebted to the hon. Gentleman for calling the attention of the House to the subject, and he much regretted that the present state of the House did not afford a more favourable opportunity for its discussion, particularly when he knew, and every Member of the House knew as well as he did, that if the question was, whether a Member should be added to the Whig or the Tory side of the House, the benches would be filled to repletion. He would not detain the House long, because he was as sensible as the hon. Gentlemen who had preceded him that the House was not much disposed to listen to him. That was not the time for talking about particular plans, but he thought that more facilities for emigration might be afforded by the Government. He suggested, that available security should be taken for the payment of the expenses after the settlement of emigrants in Aus-
871Mr. Lucas
 took that occasion of presenting a petition from his constituents, complaining of the treatment of Mr. Feargus O'Connor.Mr. Brotherton
Western Vindicator, said, that they were not to consider the nature of the offence, but how far the sentence of the court had been carried out or exceeded. The treatment of Mr. Vincent had been aggravated beyond all precedent in such cases, and was infinitely more calculated than any other course could have been, to create sympathy for him in the public mind. It had been said, that Mr. Vincent made a bad exorcise of the privilege allowed him in Monmouth gaol, of the use of writing materials, by composing objectionable articles for the Western Vindicator,Mr. Hume
885 agreed in the general view taken by the hon. Member for Sheffield, but could not concur in the third resolution proposed by the hon. Member for Limerick. If it was to be taken according to the obvious meaning of the words, it implied that the Government was to pay the passage of an unlimited number of persons to the colonies. Where were the means to come from? Why, out of the taxes raised from the people of this country. He would not deny that there might be some peculiar cases in which such a course might be justifiable; but generally it was not so. It had been said that the expense would be a million a-year, and that would fall upon the heavily taxed productive classes. It would be taking an amount from the national wealth, which would not go so far, applied to such a purpose, as it would in the pockets of the people. If there was a redundancy of labour in a particular district, arising out of extraordinary circumstances, the Government might, perhaps, in that case promote emigration; but in all ordinary cases, the effect of the Government advancing money for emigration would be that of inducing a great number of persons
885Mr. Slaney
904 said, that the complaint in this case was, that the law had not been fairly administered. The hon. Gentleman, the Under Secretary of State, admitted that no party had a right to make the sentence of a judge severer than the judge intended it to be; this was precisely the point. It was contended, that Government had made the sentence of the judge more severe than the law or the judge intended. The hon. Member for Lambeth said, that the Secretary of State had no discretion in such cases; he (Mr. Duncombe) should like to know, then, by what authority Government had removed Mr. Vincent from Monmouth gaol to the Penitentiary, where Mr. Vincent found himself so much worse treated than at Monmouth? Mr. Vincent's counsel, Mr. Roebuck, had applied to the judge, after the trial, to know how Mr. Vincent would be treated, and whether he was to be subjected to the same treatment with criminal offenders, and Mr. Baron Alderson said, that he saw nothing in Mr. Vincent's case which called for severity, and that he should consider Mr. Vincent ill used if any harsh treatment was resorted to in his case, and the learned Baron not only gave Mr. Roebuck permission to state his feeling on the matter to the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department, but said that he would write himself to the noble Lord to convey his sentiments. The noble Lord would say whether he had received such a communication. What he had to say was, that Mr. Vincent, it was clear, had been treated in a manner not sanctioned, but, on the contrary discouraged by the judge. It was true that Mr. Vincent was not in bad health, but he poignantly felt the degradation he had been subjected to, and well he might; he was in a state of solitary confinement; the silent system was maintained; he was compelled to work as a tailor. Now, was it any part of his sentence that he should work as a tailor? They might just as well make him tramp on the treadmill, as sit on the tailor's shop board. The hon. Under-Secretary had urged that Mr. Vincent, in a letter to his mother, had subscribed himself "your happy son." He could have admitted the correctness had he signed himself "yourgallant son," or "your high-spirited son." These terms would have been well justified: and he could well understand that in order to allay the anxiety of his mother, Mr. Vincent might have
904Mr. T. Duncombe
 then said that he would not detain the House a moment. He had not the slightest desire to interfere with the prerogative of the Crown. He would not say a word as to the justice of the sentence, and he at once withdrew a great portion of the petition. But it contained statements of personal indignities and degradations which in truth were, in principle, the same as the infliction of torture; and he did not know that they differed very much from it in reality. For he could well believe that any gentleman of the station in life of Mr. O'Connor, having been a Member of that House, would rather suffer some acute bodily torture than be compelled to perform the disgusting and degrading occupations which were required of him. His motion, therefore, would be for an address to her Majesty to cause Mr. O'Connor to be removed from the prison of York Castle to the Court of Queen's Bench prison, or to some other prison of which the regulations did not impose on the gaoler the necessity of inflicting such punishments as those of York Castle.Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
 said, if he rightly understood his noble Friend, that there was reasonable expectation that the additional suffering which the prisoner had undergone, from reasons of necessity, would be considered with regard to the duration of the imprisonment, he should not give the House the trouble of dividing, considering that the object of his motion would be sufficiently attained.Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
"Considering the privations that had already been endured by Mr. Vincent, an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to order his removal from the Penitentiary to some other prison, where he would not be subjected to the same system of privation and suffering, or that her Majesty, in consideration of that privation and suffering, would be graciously pleased to abridge the remainder of the term of his imprisonment."899TimesStatesman,898897896 presented a petition from Birmingham, praying that Henry Vincent, now confined in the Penitentiary at Milbank, should either be sent back to the gaol at Monmouth, or that her Majesty would be pleased to abridge his punishment. The hon. and learned Gentleman also presented a petition, signed by 14,000 persons, inhabitants of Birmingham, in favour of Mr. Feargus O'Connor, and then said that both the motions, of which he had given notice, involved the same principle, although the details of each of them were essentially different. Before he addressed himself to that principle, it would be right to state the circumstances of the case of Henry Vincent, on whose behalf he appeared upon a petition of many most respectable persons, including his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) and the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and other persons of great respectability. It had fallen to his lot to know something personally of the case of Henry Vincent, that knowledge having been acquired from his having had the duty cast upon him of conducting two prosecutions against him. The first prosecution took place at the last summer assizes for the county of Monmouth. It included the charge against Vincent having attended seditious meetings in that county, at which language of an extremely dangerous and improper character was used, and such as it would ill become him to justify or palliate; and it included that anomalous crime which he could not help thinking was a disgrace to the English law—he meant the crime of conspiracy, which might mean almost the highest offence that could be committed, or the lowest and most venial. The jury acquitted Vincent of conspiracy, but found him guilty of having attended seditious meetings, and he was sentenced to twelve months' imprisonment in Monmouth gaol. At that time some question was raised with respect to the treatment of this young person, whose decent manner and demeanour, and he believed unspotted cha-
"Considering the privations that had already been endured by Mr. Vincent, an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to order his removal from the Penitentiary to some other prison, where he would not be subjected to the same system of privation and suffering, or that her Majesty, in consideration of that privation and suffering, would be graciously pleased to abridge the remainder of the term of his imprisonment."899TimesStatesman,898897896Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
 had received a letter from Mr. Feargus O'Connor, dated 31st May; but after the statement of the hon. Gentleman, he thought that he should best consult that Gentleman's interest by not then reading it. It was said, that changes were in progress, and as it would be better to know what was actually done, he would move the adjournment of the debate till Thursday week.Mr. Wakley
905 had heard with very deep regret, the remarks of the hon. Under-Secretary of the Home Department, and he thought the mode of punishing political offenders at present adopted, extremely likely to produce great alarm in the public mind. It was one of the most serious questions, in his opinion, which could occupy the attention of that House, and he
905Mr. Wakley
880879 said, that he must begin the few observations with which he meant to trouble the House somewhat in the same manner that the hon. Baronet opposite had commenced his speech. The hon. Baronet had complained of his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton for having been induced to convert the present debate into a food question, and went the length of asserting that he could not discuss any measure in Parliament without in some form or another connecting it with the great question of a repeal of the Corn-laws. This remark provoked another, to which he (Mr. Ward) could not help giving expression. If the Member for Wolverhampton could not avoid the introduction of the corn question, neither could the hon. Baronet avoid a reference to religious subjects; but he earnestly hoped that her Majesty's Government would not fix the curse of an exclusive system upon any of our colonies; he hoped that whatever was done for religion might be done equally for all denominations. When he spoke of Protestantism and of Protestant Emigration Societies, did he mean to talk of English Protestants or of Scottish Protestants? for if what had occurred in another place were to be received as authority upon such a subject, he would say that the doctrines of the Scottish Church were not acknowledged as the same Protestantism with that of the Church of England, and again he repeated his hopes that no attempt would be made to force an exclusive system upon any of her Majesty's possessions. With regard to the hon. Baronet's deprecation of the cold doctrines of political economy, he was certainly at a loss to imagine how the hon. Baronet could make use of such an expression, when within a very few nights he had given a vote on the subject of the Corn-laws at variance with every dictate of humanity. There had been, he admitted, symptoms of a better administration, of extended views, and improved feelings and convictions since the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) held his present office. And if he had some objections to the incompleteness with which the noble Lord had carried out his own views, and he hoped he should always urge them in a friendly spirit, and with a sincere desire
880879Mr. Ward
 thought that the explanation given by the hon. Gentleman the Under-Secretary for the Home Department seriously aggravated the charge made against the Government. In a county jail, the magistrates had the power of alleviating the circumstances of the imprisonment of any person, and the mere fact of its being unfair that any other county ought not to be held liable for the expenses attending such an imprisonment, other than that in which the offence was committed, was no sufficient ground, in his opinion, to warrant the removal of a prisoner to the Penitentiary, and his being subjected to all the rigorous discipline of that gaol, more especially in a case like that of Mr. Vincent, where the learned judge by whom he was tried had expressed an opinion that he should receive such lenient treatment as the rules of the prison to which he was first committed rendered justifiable. He thought that the Government ought to interfere to put Mr. Vincent into the situation which was contemplated by the learned judge, and that he should be sent back to Monmouth gaol, or if that were not safe, he should be placed in such a gaol as that he might enjoy the privileges contemplated.Mr. John Jervis
 hoped that whatever alteration was made in the discipline at York Castle, it would be made without any distinction of the previous rank of the prisoner.Sir R. Inglis
878877876Ecce iterum Crispinus! rose, exclaiming 878877876Ecce iterum Crispinus!Sir R. Inglis
893892: Sir, I have many reasons for objecting to the proposal of the hon. Member opposite. There is some difficulty in affirming such a proposition without ensuring the means of carrying it out. It may be very well for an hon. Member to require that we should affirm an abstract principle, however good in itself, and then he may devolve on others the duty of carrying it out. I doubt, however, the correctness of the principle which is contained in the Resolutions of the hon. Gentleman. He says, "That in Great Britain and Ireland the working classes are frequently exposed to extreme privation from inability to procure employment;" and in his second resolution he says, "That in several of the British colonies the demand for labour is urgent, continuous, and increasing, and its remuneration is comparatively ample, whilst the prosperity of these colonies is much retarded by its inadequateness;" but then there is no sequence in the following proposal, which
893892Sir R. Peel
 was sorry to hear the noble Lord say, that there was an objection to remove prisoners from one gaol to another on account of the expense, because, if that notion was entertained, the consequence must be, that prisoners must generally be removed to the Penitentiary, which as he thought, was not a good place for prisoners of this sort. He did not like to enter upon the discussion, but he thought that it was an error in sending Vincent to the Penitentiary. He hoped, therefore, that the Crown would not abandon the right to remove prisoners from one gaol to another.Sir R. Peel
908 must express his regret that the noble Lord had made any condition whatever. He had staid to offer his decided opposition to the motion. He had always said that he would resist any attempt of the House of Commons to interfere with the prerogative of the Crown with regard to mercy. He thought that the grace of remitting punishment ought to be left with the Crown, and he was certain that if the House of Commons established a precedent of interfering with the administration of that branch of the prerogative, that the position of the Crown would become most disagreeable and most odious. A popular assembly would be too glad to avail itself of such a precedent for the purpose of leaving to the Crown all the harshness accompanying the administration of justice, and taking to itself all the grace of remitting punishment. He did not say a word to prevent the Crown from exercising its discretion. Let the Crown exercise its full privilege of remitting punishment; but he was sorry that the noble Lord, for the purpose of inducing the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his motion,
908Sir R. Peel
, in explanation, said that he never had contemplated that the fund which should be appropriated to the purpose of facilitating emigration should be derived from taxation raised in this country.Mr. Hutt
l.870"That he had been a small shopkeeper in the city of London, and, as his correspondent well knew, not in the worst circumstances, but that he had the greatest reason to be grateful for having resolved to give up his business and emigrate to that colony. He strongly recommended his correspondent to give up the struggle for mere bread, and a scanty subsistence for his children, in a country beset with difficulties almost insurmountable to operatives and labouring men with families. The advantages which he had reaped since his arrival up to the date of the letter (November, 1839), had been so great, that he confessed he was ashamed of himself for having so long submitted to act the part of a willing slave for a mere livelihood in London, out of attachment to a land in which the industry of every man in his situation was cramped or burdened as it now was in England."869868 rose to second the motion, which he was sorry, from the scanty attendance of Members, to find was so distasteful to the House. His hon. Friend the mover had already adverted to almost
l.870"That he had been a small shopkeeper in the city of London, and, as his correspondent well knew, not in the worst circumstances, but that he had the greatest reason to be grateful for having resolved to give up his business and emigrate to that colony. He strongly recommended his correspondent to give up the struggle for mere bread, and a scanty subsistence for his children, in a country beset with difficulties almost insurmountable to operatives and labouring men with families. The advantages which he had reaped since his arrival up to the date of the letter (November, 1839), had been so great, that he confessed he was ashamed of himself for having so long submitted to act the part of a willing slave for a mere livelihood in London, out of attachment to a land in which the industry of every man in his situation was cramped or burdened as it now was in England."869868Mr. Hutt
929 admitted, that there was an inconsistency between the clauses of the two bills. But did the learned Sergeant mean to lay down the principle that a bill passed into law could not be altered or amended by another bill passed during the same session of Parliament? There was nothing in the present case contrary to the usual practice of Parliament. Connected with this bill there were two questions perfectly distinct. One was, whether or not Parliament would repose in the new town-councils the duties and responsibilities which such municipal bodies would possess. The other was, whether or not the boundary clauses formed a necessary part of the Municipal Reform Bill. He contended that this bill must be viewed as a single and indivisible measure, and that neither of its parts formed a necessary branch of the measure of corporate reform. The clauses settling the jurisdiction were rendered necessary by the changes which the bill itself would introduce. The hon. and learned Sergeant wished to relieve the rural districts from all contribution to the borough funds, and throw the whole burden on the inhabitants of the towns, proposing that the town-council should levy a rate for one purpose, and the grand jury for another purpose. He had no hesitation in saying, that if his hon. and learned Friend carried
929Mr. Pigot
 said, that this bill did not appear in itself open to objection; but if it took off the restrictions which had been laid on the importation of the Hill Coolies into the Mauritius or elsewhere, it would be viewed with great suspicion and doubt. He wished to know from the noble Lord whether this bill was intended as a preliminary to taking off the restrictions which had been imposed last year. He hoped, however, that the noble Lord would consent to postpone this bill until a future opportunity, or until next year. For his own part, he did not object to the importation of Coolies into the Mauritius, if certain restrictions and provisions could be devised to ensure their good treatment, and their safe return to their native country when they should desire it. He believed, that if these very necessary precautions were not taken, the importation of the Hill Coolies to the West Indies and elsewhere, accompanied with all its past horrors, would again take place.Sir E. Wilmot
 said, he was an advocate for this experiment being made upon a small scale, before they attempted it on a larger scale. He must say, however, that if the power of the Imperial Parliament could not reach so far as the West Indies, as to allow us to import labourers into the West Indies without abuse, we had better give them up. As to the mixture of races to which the noble Lord had adverted, he did not know where there could be found men of more mixed races than hon. Gentlemen around him. Why, there was the mixture of Norman, Danish, Saxon, and Flemish blood. He believed, that a true-born Englishman was of a more mixed race than any man in the world.Mr. Hobhouse
948947946 congratulated the Secretary at War (Mr. Macaulay) upon the new ally he had found in the hon. Member for Antrim (Mr. Irving). He would undertake to say that this was the first time in the lives of both that they had been known to concur in any one opinion. What was the conduct of the planters of the Mauritius? He did not find that they had made any effort to accomodate themselves to the new state of things that necessarily followed the passing of the Negro Emancipation Act. They offered no increase of wages to the emancipated negro as an inducement to work. Their object was not to obtain labour at a fair price, but to extort it for the lowest possible remuneration. With respect to the emigration of labourers there was no doubt that was a desirable thing, provided it were free. What he protested against was crimping, not free emigration. That crimping had
948947946Mr. O'Connell
950949 trusted, that in the very few observations he intended to offer to the House, he should not be supposed to entertain a less earnest desire for the extinction of slavery than the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken, whose able and long-continued exertions to free the slave were so universally known, and whose efforts in that great cause ought in his opinion to have secured for him a high and paramount position in the ranks of those who professed to be its friends, rather than rejection or exclusion. With respect to the question before the House, he must observe that the whole of the debate had turned upon the errors of the past, and upon the mal-administration and misfortunes which had existed heretofore; whereas his noble Friend (Lord John Russell), in opening the subject, stated most distinctly that it was not his intention to revive the system that had previously existed, but to put it upon a totally different footing. What were the evils most complained of prior to the issuing of the order in council? The duration of the contract under which the Hill Cooly embarked for the Mauritius, and the immense majority of the male sex in that colony. Now his noble Friend stated distinctly that his intention was to carry out such a system that the Indian labourer might embark for the colony without being embarrassed by any contract whatever. It was admitted on all sides of the House that emigration was most important to the colonies; but the moment that any system of emigration was proposed, a host of difficulties were raised, and every kind of difficulty thrown in the way. He doubted whether the objections raised by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell), would not equally apply to the emigration of his own countrymen to this country. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that he did not object to emigration, but to crimping.
950949Mr. Vernon Smith
 observed, that as by the title of this bill its operation was confined to "our West Indian Colonies," the noble Lord would find it necessary, before introducing the clauses relative to the Mauritius, to move an instruction to the committee to that effect.Mr. O'Connell
924dd was glad that the noble Lord had expressed his intention not to oppose the second reading of this measure. With regard to a reduction of the rate from 8924ddMr. F Maule
ddmaximum said, he would not oppose the second reading of this bill, although he was of opinion that it would require much modification before it passed into a law. He had received several communications relative to this measure, and he would propose that the hon. Gentleman should put off the Committee for at least a fortnight, and that in the mean time he should endeavour lo come to an understanding with the different parties interested in this bill who were hostile to some of its provisions. In Committee he should propose to reduce the ddmaximumLord G. Somerset
932931 said, the hon. Gentleman had stated very clearly the view which he took of this case. The clauses which he proposed to insert in the bill did not in themselves contain the plan for the admission of Hill Coolies into the Mauritius. In answer to the question which had been put to him by the hon. Baronet, he begged to state that those clauses were intended to bring before the House the general question as to whether, under any restrictions which might be devised, the prohibition now existing might be removed, in reference to the exportation or removal of Hill Coolies from India to Mauritius. He thought, that that prohibition which had been imposed last year (looking to all the horrors which had accompanied the importation of Coolies) was the best measure which could have been resorted to, to remove the evil until further legislation should take place. But some time had now elapsed, and the question had caused much discussion, and he thought that the House would now be enabled to frame sufficiently stringent restrictions to prevent those gross abuses, which had formerly
932931Lord J. Russell
933 said, that that certainly
933Lord J. Russell
 having moved the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into a Committee on the Colonial Passengers' Bill,Lord John Russell
934 said, his hon. Friend was quite mistaken in thinking that he (Lord J. Russell) had not considered this subject. Last week some of the most considerable Jamaica proprietors had waited on him to state their wish that emigration should be promoted to the West
934Lord J. Russell
 moved that it be an instruction to the committee that they have power to regulate the intercourse between the East Indies and the Mauritius.Lord John Russell
 according to notice, to move the rejection of the seventh clause, which required the buyer of goods, & c, under a contract, to pay the increased duty. This clause was intended to charge 5 per cent, to those who may have bought, goods before the 15th of May, to be delivered on or after that day, whether they bought them with the "duty paid" or otherwise. Such a provision he considered unjust to the buyers. It gave an unexpected and uncalled for protection to sellers who had not been sufficiently cautious in making their bargains. He held in his hand a petition from the wholesale and other dealers in colonial, East Indian, Mediterranean, and other produce, in the port of London, complaining that they should be grievously injured by this 7th clause. The substance of their statement was, that the clause was intended to relieve those who had not used common prudence in making their contracts—that if a reduction, and not an increase of duty, had taken place, it was the seller and not the buyer who would have been benefitted; that the buyers would now have no means of redress, as it would be unsafe to add the duty to the selling price to their customers: and that it was an improper interference with existing contracts. He coincided in these views, and he should therefore move that the clause be expunged.Mr. B. Wood rose
937936 thought that his hon. Friend who had just addressed the House had overlooked the facts of the case; because when he said, if this were the case of men who were leaving a country where the population was redundant— [Mr. Warburton had never said so.] He was then in the same error with the great majority of the House. Now, he believed, that with the exception of China, the labouring people of India were the worst off for the means of subsistence, and for the opportunities which they had of bettering their condition. Again, the statistical accounts from our army proved that the Mauritius was a most healthy colony. He thought that the hon. Gentleman might have spared the allusion to certain persons in the Mauritius; it might be an argument to those who entered into controversies on this subject, who might carry revenge into subjects instead of justice. He was stating what he thought. He
937936Mr. C. Buller
 said that, consistently with the title of the bill, those clauses could not be introduced without an instruction to the committee.The Speaker
935 held that whatever means of protection the noble Lord might intend to adopt, yet that the recognition, of the principle of importing Hill Coolies into our colonies could only end in a new slavery. If this were the case of the transport of persons with their families and children, who emigrated from their native country with a view to improve their condition elsewhere, and who went from a state
935Mr. Warburton
945 observed, that unless some steps were taken to promote the supply of labour to the colonies, the greater number of them must speedily be reduced to a state of irretrievable decay. In the West Indies, the produce of late years had fallen off nearly one half, and the expenses of cultivation had increased in a much greater ratio than the price of commodities in the home market. In this state of things, it was impossible that the colonies could go on. He must observe, that his right hon. and learned Friend (Dr. Lushington) had not, upon this occasion, stated the facts connected with the case with his usual accuracy. It appeared from the papers which had been laid before the House, that the mortality amongst the Hill Coolies imported into the Mauritius, amounted to 3½ or 3¾ per cent., which was no more than the average mortality in the garrison. It appeared, too, that although a great proportion of them arrived in the island in a state of great debility, a short residence there restored, them to
945Mr. Irving
928927 rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move that it be an instruction to the Committee to divide the bill into two bills—the one to provide for fiscal objects, and the other for the administration of justice. Previous to entering into a discussion on the merits of the measure itself, he would avail himself of that opportunity to reply to the sarcasm cast upon his side of the House on Monday last by the noble Lord, the Under Secretary for Ireland, that they wished to impede the progress of this bill on account of its dependence upon the Irish Municipal Bill then before the other House. It was plain, from the repeated postponements of this bill by the Government, that
928927Mr. Sergeant Jackson
, in explanation, stated that his object was to separate the rural districts of counties of cities, and counties of towns, and throw them into the counties at large. He wished them to be separated for all purposes, including those of Parliamentary representation and municipal arrangement. In proposing this course, he did not wish to occasion any inconvenience to the noble Lord, or any embarrassment to the Government. He had objected to proceeding with the bill the other night, because it was his strong opinion that it was most inconvenient to the public service to bring on business on which any discussion was expected after twelve o'clock at night.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 was sorry to hear what had fallen from his noble Friend on the subject of the difficulty of importing the Hill Coolies into the West India islands. The noble Lord, however, had let fall something which militated against the emigration of any set of men to the West Indies. He regretted his, because those who were suffering under the infliction of a tropical sun, and under the evil of a dearth of labour, would feel that the principle of emigration was intended to apply only to the Isle of France, and not to the West Indies. But suppose the noble Lord's argument to be just in one point of view, there was no reason why he should set his face against the importation of labouring men into Jamaica. He (Mr. Bernal) knew some estates in that island which must actually be thrown out of cultivation for the want of labourers to work them, if immigration or the importation of labourers from other places were prohibited. He did not see why the owners and cultivators of the land in Jamaica who wished to locate men from other parts should not have the power to encourage their importation, and to pay them good wages. The noble Lord had spoken with a feeling of great dread of the mixing of the different races in the West Indies; but might he not with equal propriety dread the same consequences from the same cause in the Mauritius? He must say, that it was a matter of great consequence to the cultivators of the soil in Jamaica—it was, moreover, a matter of equal importance to this country that emigration to the West Indies should be allowed. The prices of labour there were now so high, that they could not much longer be borne. Some estates he knew were being carried on at a positive loss. Every letter he received from the West Indies teemed with the burden of the same song—" We have no labour"—"We are in want of labourers"—"Send us labourers." He presumed his noble Friend had not duly considered this subject.Mr. Bernal
 said, it was truly stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that as there was a certain loss, it must fall somewhere, and it ought to fall on the purchaser. Common justice required that the loss should be dispersed over the largest surface, and consequently it must fall on the public.Mr. Bernal
 said, that a considerable body of his constituents were deeply interested in this clause, and they conceived it to be utterly opposed to justice. He thought that it was incumbent on those who supported the clause to show the justice of such an innovation.Sir S. Lushington
941940J. C. Hobhouse939J. C. HobhouseJ. C. HobhouseMember938 deeply regretted the question had come in such a form before the House. It was true they were apparently about to discuss the question as to the admission of labour into the colonies, which was contained in the resolutions, to which resolutions, if they stood alone, he should not object; but connected as the subject was with other circumstances, he was compelled to depart, in some degree, from the subject matter under debate, and to state his own views of those principles applicable to the subject, and the mode of carrying those principles into execution. It had been charged against the opponents of the introduction of Hill Coolies as labourers, that they were opposed to the introduction of all free labour into the colonies. That was not true, for one of the principles the opponents advocated was, that when there existed a want of labourers on one hand, and a superfluity of labourers on the other, the deficiency ought to be supplied on terms of mutual benefit. Again, it had been said the opponents were inimical to the sugar market; that they also disregarded the numerous petitions on the subject, and the high price of sugar which the consuming population were likely to be obliged to encounter. It was singular, however, that this outcry had arisen so soon. This deficiency had not yet become so alarming. There was as yet only a deficiency of one-tenth compared with last year, and thus there appeared no real grounds for assuming that the deficiency would be so great as to create inconvenience to the community. In answer to the
941940J. C. Hobhouse939J. C. HobhouseJ. C. HobhouseMember938Sir S. Lushington
944943942 entertained so high a respect for his right hon. and learned Friend, and knew so well the services he had rendered to the cause of freedom, that he felt much pain in differing from him. But after the speech they had just heard, he was unwilling to give his vote without stating the grounds of it. He believed, that with respect to the general principle there was little difference between his right hon. Friend and himself. None knew better than his right hon. Friend how important it was to remove labourers from districts where the population was thick and wages were low, to districts where the land was widely spread, and labour in demand. He would admit, there might be exceptions—he thought, that wheresoever slavery existed there ought to
944943942Mr. Macaulay
 considered this proposal as a means of reviving, under another name, the odious traffic in slaves; and he, therefore, hoped the House would not proceed another step with these clauses until the noble Lord stated precisely what his plan was with respect to the introduction of these labourers into the Mauritius.Mr. Wakley
 said he thought these clauses practically nugatory, because the power given by them was one which the Government already possessed by virtue of their control over the possessions of the East India Company. It was his intention, however, to vote for those clauses; but in doing so he must beg to be understood as only assenting to the general principle of emigration from the East Indies, not as pledging himself to adopt all the details of the noble Lord's plan. The noble Lord must be understood as taking the responsibility of any particular plan for carrying out that principle. With the greatest pleasure he had heard the hon. Gentleman opposite declare his conviction that this emigration question was one of great importance, not only to the planters and labourers, but to the general interests of humanity. He must also say that it was in vain for us to trust to the temporary prosperity of the colonies and the efforts of the planters to maintain cultivation; because when prices fell in this country, as they must do, the sources of the wages of the labourer would be dried up, and the existing prosperity would no longer continue.Mr. Gladstone
 contended that as far as the comparative distances of the Mauritius and the West Indies from India went, it fell to the ground; because the great objection which had been made, and which, was always contended for, was, that those people, the Hill Coolies, were ignorant of the Mauritius; they were ignorant of the very position of the place to which they were exported. He apprehended that any regulations contained in this bill, therefore, might be made to apply equally as well to Jamaica as to the Mauritius; and he could not clearly see how the Coolies were to be subsequently protected in either case. He did not object to emigration to Australia or the West Indies, but he objected to the sort of emigration proposed, of persons utterly ignorant of the place to which they were to be conveyed, or of the dangers to which they were exposed.Mr. Ewart
 said, it was better to leave the buyer and seller to adjust their own affairs, than to leave them to be settled by Parliament, which would only tend to promote litigation.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 considered the introduction of the clauses perfectly legitimate and necessary. From his own knowledge he could say that these Hill Coolies were a peaceable and well-disposed race, and if the Government in India would lend its co-operation, and these Coolies were made acquainted with the fact that there was a place where they would be employed and well treated, there would be no difficulty in carrying out the plan, without any approach to coercive measures.Sir C. Grey
925 said, the question for the House in this case to decide was which party, the seller or the buyer, was to pay the additional duly. He would state the case as it presented itself to him, and first of all he would observe, that such a clause was usual in former acts. Suppose a party sells a quantity of goods in bond for a given price, "duty paid," and before he delivers them out an additional duty is imposed. If that duty be imposed on the seller, he
925The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know whether he understood the noble Lord rightly in supposing that every care would be taken to protect the Coolies from the horrors to which they had been before exposed.Sir Eardley Wilmot
, I can't introduce the second bill either to night or to morrow. The first will be ready by Thursday.Mr. Pigot
 would not let the Session pass without bringing the whole subject of the timber duties before the House. He considered the question was left perfectly open by the arrangement proposed—that the differential duties were as objectionable as they were before—and that the same arguments remained against them as before. The case of those who wished to have the duties altered was, that the present system was a waste of the resources of the country; and the hon. Alderman and his colleague might be assured that he would give them an opportunity of establishing their position, that the system they contended for was of advantage to the colonial and the shipping interests.Mr. Villiers
l., said that if the right hon. Baronet would refer once again to the estimates, he would find that they contained a proposition for a grant of 800l.,Mr. Fox Maule
961 remarked that although there was every wish to conform to the recommendation of the commissioners, he
961Mr. F. Maule
963 said, that the manner in which the estimates had been proceeded with was perfectly regular. Friday was the regular day, and the House resolved itself into a committee of supply at six or half-past six o'clock. Surely hon. Members opposite would not expect any set of Ministers to create and to maintain a debate upon the estimates which they themselves brought forward. With respect to the sitting of the House to-morrow, he wished to observe that it was merely
963Lord J. Russell
l.l. said that he supposed that the noble Lord opposite, being at Almack's, or some other fashionable place, could not be present whilst the Irish estimates were brought on, though he thought it was the duty of the noble Lord to be present, holding the lucrative and overpaid office which he did; and he should certainly propose that the noble Lord's salary should be reduced from 5,500l.l.Colonel Sibthorp
l. expressed his surprise that so much money should be voted in so short a time. He had just gone to take some refreshment, and on his return he found that above 300,000l.Colonel Sibthorp
 said he must admit the perfect regularity of the proceedings. He had come down with the intention of making some objection to certain parts of the estimates; but, seeing the state of the House on his side, he could not do so.Mr. Darby
959 said that the hon. Member for Sunderland had not appreciated the arguments of his right hon. Friend at their just value. His right hon. Friend had stated, that, to his former proposition, as to the duties on colonial and foreign timber, there was both a financial objection and a commercial objection; a financial objection, inasmuch as the augmentation of the rate of duty might, as it frequently happened, be attended with a less amount of duty received in the aggregate; a commercial objection, founded upon the consideration that the duties upon Baltic timber were already enormous. Its con-
959Mr. Labouchere
s. concurred in the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman, that already the amount of the differential duties upon Baltic timber, exceeding, as it did, 45s.Mr. Warburton
 also complained that the Irish estimates had been carried through in the absence of Irish Members.Mr. J. Grattan
l.l.962 complained that
l.l.962Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 was sure the Government would exercise a strict supervision in the distribution of this fund. He thought it was most important that this professorship of engineering and mechanics, which would so essentially contribute to the improvement of those working classes who were not in a condition to pay high fees, should be established.Mr. Gillon
 said that, without entering into the question of the policy of the differential duties, he was not able to see why any exception should be made in the case of timber. He could not understand why, if differential duties were continued, they should not equally apply to sugar, coffee, and oils. Purchases of timber had been made by parties under the impression that the duties would remain the same as they had formerly been, and a new scale of duties would lead to great inconvenience. He therefore objected to the plan of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 said he would not go any further into the items of supply at present, and would postpone further proceedings until the bringing up of the report on Thursday.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. begged to inquire of the hon. Gentleman opposite, what course was intended to be adopted with regard to a vote of 800l.Sir James Graham
 observed that the chief recommendation of the commissioners was the establishment of the University Court, in which the heads of the universities would have voices, and would dispose of the money in a manner most conducive to the interests of the university. That recommendation, however, the Government had not adopted, and in the absence of the University Court they took upon themselves the distribution of the grant. And the House was called upon to agree to the vote in the absence of all information upon the subject.Sir J. Graham
 did not mean to dispute the propriety of establishing the proposed professorship; but after the explanation of the hon. Under-secretary, it was clear that the appropriation of the fund was not in conformity with the recommendation of the commissioners, nor was it in conformity with former grants. What he wished to know from the hon. Under-secretary was, whether the appropriation of the sum mentioned in the vote was made in conformity with the recommendation of the commissioners? He thought it was not.Sir J. Graham
 was then to understand that it was not possible upon Thursday next to have the second bill.Sir J. Graham
 wished to ask a question of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor-General for Ireland. About ten days ago the hon. and learned Gentleman had obtained leave to bring in a bill to amend the registration system in Ireland, and he had also notified to the House that he intended to introduce a second bill, to deal with the subject of the new definition of "a beneficial interest," including the direction of an appellate tribunal for the assistant-barristers registering votes in Ireland. He had brought in the first of these bills, but it was not yet printed, though the order had been made. He had also obtained leave to bring in the second bill, but he had not introduced it as yet. He begged to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman of the promise which he had made to him upon that occasion. He (Sir J. Graham) had said that it was most desirable that these bills should both be in the hands of Members before the House was asked to take another step in the bill of his noble Friend the Member for North Lancashire. The hon. and learned Gentleman had given his assurance that both these bills would be in the hands of Members in a few days. Ten days had elapsed but they were not yet forthcoming. One of them might be printed and delivered before Thursday; but unless he presented the second bill either that night or the following day, it was impossible that it could be in the possession of Members on Thursday, when the debate would come on. He wished therefore, to ask the hon. and learned Gentleman, whether to night or to morrow he would present the second bill, for the definition of the beneficial interests.Sir J. Graham
 expressed himself to a similar effect. Three hundred petitions had been presented during the Session against the grant to the College of Maynooth. That fact alone was sufficient to demonstrate that the vote was one that ought not to be passed as a matter of course. He should state his views upon the point when the report was brought up. It was also his intention to move for a select committee for the purpose of considering the existing system of education at Maynooth.Sir R. Bateson
 believed that the remarks which had fallen from the hon. Member for Sunderland would not be coincided in by his constituents. The proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer met with his approbation.Mr. Hutt
 was sorry that he had not been in his place when the Irish estimates were brought on; but, as they had passed off so smoothly, his regret was diminished; and, knowing that the hon. and gallant Member had often expressed his intention of moving the reduction of his salary, it might be a matter of delicacy with him not to be present on the occasion, and so to avoid the necessity of voting on that subject.Viscount Morpeth
965964 said, he believed that a true bill had been found against this House by the grand jury of the Bri-
965964Sir George Sinclair
 having moved, that the House at its rising do adjourn to Wednesday, the 10th of June,Viscount Morpeth
971l.970"We participate in the feelings of detestation of the crime of seduction; but the principle, that poor-law administration should be the administration of relief alone, cannot be departed from by the introduction of anything having a view to punishment, without at the same time creating far greater evils than those which it is intended to repress. Neither can any existing authority for the dispensation of relief be safely considered as properly constituted as a judicatory for the award of private satisfaction for wrongs or for the infliction of punishment. It appears to be commonly overlooked in the complaints on this subject, that for the injury of seduction the courts of law afford a remedy; and to any objection which might be made that this remedy is too costly, or is otherwise out of the reach of the poor, we submit that the proper remedial course of legislation would be to render justice, dispensed by proper judicial functionaries, accessible to the poorest classes of the community."969968, in moving the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Seduction Bill, after adverting to the proceedings of the select committee, proceeded to enlarge upon the facilities to seduction, provided by the existing system, and the absolute necessity of supplying a remedy. The question, therefore, was simply this, was nothing to be done for these victims of profligate lust? Were they to see the sisters, wives, and daughters, of their poorer countrymen reduced to a melancholy state of misery and distress, without attempting to do anything to relieve it? Or were they to suffer the unprincipled views of the seducer to continue successful, and from the difficulty of carrying the present law into execution, and from the fear of reverting to all the evils of the old system, to be deterred from all further efforts of legislation upon this subject? Had there been, he would ask, no increase of bastardy since the passing of the New Poor-law? It was recorded by the New Poor-law Commissioners in their first annual report, that the illegitimate births were to the legitimate in 1830, as one to nineteen. He had an account in his hand of the legitimate and illegitimate births in the three years previous to the 31st of December, 1834, and in the three years subsequent to it. That account comprised the returns from ten counties in the south of England, and from the ten counties which were first divided into unions. In those counties had bastardy increased or diminished? It appeared, that in the three years immediately preceding that in which the Poor-law Amendment Act was passed, there were 8,579 illegitimate births, and in the last three years 9,048. These returns were from 3,835 parishes. It was true, that they were nearly all rural parishes; but had the result been different in the the great manufacturing districts? He had the authority of one of the most able and intelligent of the assistant Poor-law commissioners for stating, that in the West Riding of Yorkshire and in Lancashire bastardy had greatly increased since the passing of the New Poor-law. He had also another return, which, though partial, he thought necessary to bring
971l.970"We participate in the feelings of detestation of the crime of seduction; but the principle, that poor-law administration should be the administration of relief alone, cannot be departed from by the introduction of anything having a view to punishment, without at the same time creating far greater evils than those which it is intended to repress. Neither can any existing authority for the dispensation of relief be safely considered as properly constituted as a judicatory for the award of private satisfaction for wrongs or for the infliction of punishment. It appears to be commonly overlooked in the complaints on this subject, that for the injury of seduction the courts of law afford a remedy; and to any objection which might be made that this remedy is too costly, or is otherwise out of the reach of the poor, we submit that the proper remedial course of legislation would be to render justice, dispensed by proper judicial functionaries, accessible to the poorest classes of the community."969968Mr. Miles
, in reply said, that all he wanted was that the House should approve of the principle upon which his bill was founded, and then, being well aware of the great difficulties by which the subject was surrounded, he should be very happy to resign it into the abler hands of the Attorney-General.Mr. Miles
 said, that if the hon. Gentleman's bill had in view to render justice accessible to the poor, he would give it his ready assent; and he admitted in this case that it was an enormous evil that poor women should have no redress if they really had endured a wrong; but the hon. Gentleman had not by his bill solved the real difficulty in the case, which was a competent tribunal before whom they were to appear and obtain their remedy: he only had proposed by this bill to give fresh powers to the gentry who were the local magistrates, and which it would do in a material degree, and he thought in this case, where the sons, or the servants, or the dependants of the magistracy might be the parties whose cases they would have to decide, that the objections which did exist at present to the magistracy, namely, that their judgments might be biassed by their local interests or their local prejudices, would apply in a striking degree in this case. Let the hon. Gentleman say that he would support a good system of local courts to provide for a competent administration of justice throughout the country, and he would have his ready concurrence, and he believed that of every person on his side of the House, in any plan for affording any redress which the poor might seek or demand. But he, for one, not having confidence in the country justices, as they were at present appointed, could not consent to extend their powers in this respect.Mr. Villiers
l.l.l.l.976l.l.l.l. said, it was with great regret that he found himself called upon to throw any impediment in the way of the progress of the bill of his hon. Friend; more particularly, as no man was more anxious than himself to put an end to the evils of beer-houses. The proposition of his hon. Friend was, that parties before they should be allowed to open beer-houses, should be in the occupation of houses worth a rental of 15l.l.l.l.976l.l.l.l.Lord G. Somerset
 thought that unless the noble Lord intended to oppose the bill altogether, it would be better to leave the first clause as it stood.Mr. Hamilton
977 was extremely sorry to find that the graduated scale did not meet with the approbation of his noble Friend. It appeared to him that the point to be considered was this, whether the House in dealing with the evils of the Beer Act could adopt a property qualification as a remedy or not. Seeing that the principle of a property qualification was distinctly laid down by the Chandas committee in 1834, and had since been recognized by the House both in the last and the present Session of Parliament, he thought he had a right to assume that the imposition of a qualification of that kind afforded the best means of dealing with the evil. Then the question arose as to whether he had adopted a fair graduated scale. He fully admitted the difficulty which arose upon that point, as regarded the value of property; he knew that what applied to one part of the kingdom would not apply to another part; but this was a difficulty inseparable from a property qualification, and applied with equal force to the qualification for the elective franchise as to the qualification for keeping a beer-house. All, therefore, that he could do was to endeavour to form such a scale as would apply with the greatest attainable fairness to all parts of the kingdom. From the information he had been enabled
977Mr. Pakington
pro formâ suggested that the bill should be allowed to go through committee pro formâMr. Warburton
 reminded the hon. Member for Bridport, that the course he recommended had already been acted upon; and that the bill now stood before the House in its amended shape. The right hon. Gentleman proceeded to make some remarks upon the measure, but in so low a tone of voice as to be scarcely audible. We understood him to state that, in his own opinion, he thought the best way of dealing with the subject would be to render the trade in beer as free as possible, and to place the beer-houses under the control of a strict police; but since it was proposed to deal with it by adopting a property qualification, he thought that the provisions of the bill now proposed were, perhaps, as just and fair, and as generally applicable to all parts of the country, as any that could be adopted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 agreed with the general principle of the bill, but he thought the qualification clause, as at present constituted, in particular with reference to the county of Hertford, would have an injurious effect on the beer interest. In justice to his constituents he would not attempt any compromise, and as he doubted whether the originator of the bill would be willing to satisfy him as far as regarded the qualification, he should at once move that the words be expunged.Mr. Alston
978 said, the alteration in the beer-trade had produced anything rather than a beneficial result. He was, however, most anxious to have a fair qualification, because it would induce small and respectable shopkeepers to enter into
978Mr. Slaney
 wanted to know why the bill was to be allowed to pass, if the affair required, as stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, an augmented police. The law as it at present stood was as bad as it could be. The labourers were demoralized, and their wives and children were exposed to augmented destitution. The present remedy, though well meant, would not be effectual; and, as the evil was so very great, would it not be better to wait for another year, until such a measure was framed as would meet the evil effectually? What was wanted was a system of police. So said the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but what was wanted most was general education. Seeing, therefore, that even the Chancellor of the Exchequer doubted the efficiency of the present measure, he should, for the reasons he had alleged, support the amendment.Mr. Wakley
 had one objection to the measure, and that was, because the last census was to be the basis of the bill; but as another census was in contemplation, he hoped the hon. Member would pause until the bill for the new census was passed into law.Captain Pechell
l. thought a 10l.Mr. Aglionby
 withdrew his amendment.Mr. Alston
 then moved the omission of the words "one rating" and proposed the substitution of the words "for any house, premises, or land."Mr. Alston
 said he would not depart from the original clause, because the words "one rating" included land.Mr. Pakington
 then moved to substitute the words "five pounds" instead of "eight pounds," for the rent and annual value of the premises to be rated.Mr. Alston
 opposed the amendment, and stated that the beer shops in the rural districts were places where many of the greatest crimes had been concocted, and that it was well know to every one that the House had been inundated with petitions, not only from the labourers, but also from their wives and families, praying that the beer-shops might be done away with.Mr. Goring
l. said that the bill would not put down the beer-shops. The only effect it would have would be that the brewers would advance money to persons wishing to establish beer-houses, and by this means raise the value of the property to 10l.Mr. Warburton
980 supported the amendment, and considered that a well-regulated beer-shop, under a proper police, was a great blessing to its locality. As to beer-shops being the places where it was said
980Mr. Aglionby
 said he had voted for the lower rate in the towns, but could not do so for the rural districts, where the beer-shops were the resort of the worst description of characters, where the village constable had no control, and where outrages were concocted which even the new police, where they had been established, were not sufficient to check.Lord Worsley
 observed, that as this clause proposed an interference with domestic life which was not sanctioned in any part of Europe, he should divide the House against it. There was no man, he hoped, who had any generous feeling of regard for the poor who would not divide with him.Mr. P. Howard
l. said, that as he meant to divide on the principle of this clause, he thought it better to propose the omission of the few first words than to allow any discussion of the details. This appeared to him to be the most convenient course. He had strong objections to this clause, because he feared that there would be great difficulty in carrying it into operation in the country parishes. He thought it would be most unwise to place such a discretion, as being able to say no to an application for a licence to open a beer-house, in the hands of either landed proprietors, farmers, or owners of houses rated at 12l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. thought that if rating at 10l.l.Mr. Darley
 did not think that any sufficient reason had been stated to justify him in abandoning the clause.Mr. Pakington
 said, that as they had a property qualification, he did not see what they wanted with a moral qualification of this kind.Mr. Hawes
 was satisfied that without some means of testing character, such as this clause proposed, a property qualification would be valueless. He should vote for the clause.Mr. Benett
982 said that, from experi-
982Mr. Goulburn
 knew of at least one parish in Cambridgeshire in which there was but one occupier and one rated inhabitant.Mr. R. Alston
 considered the clause of no use whatever; and, as he had not the slightest dependence on the certificate, he would vote for the amendment of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.Lord Granville Somerset
 said, in the small parishes in which there was barely a sufficient number of rated inhabitants, the clause would erect a secret tribunal to judge of men's characters, whilst in largo parishes the clause would be quite inoperative.Mr. Warburton
l. could not agree to a certificate being entirely useless. He thought that it would prevent a matt of bad character from obtaining a licence, though he doubted whether 12l.Lord Worsley
l. would support the clause, because, though the bill had worked well in large places, yet there were many smaller places in which it was necessary to have some better check upon the keepers of those houses. But he thought it would be better to reduce the number of persons signing the certificate to four, and the rating to 10l.Mr. Slaney
 said, that the main principle of the clause went to make the hours for opening and closing the same all over the kingdom, instead of leaving that matter, as formerly, to the discretion of the magistates. He thought the hour of four o'clock for opening the houses was an unnecessarily early hour, and could be of no convenience to the poorer classes. He would, therefore, suggest that the hour of five o'clock should be named instead. With respect to the regulation for opening on Sundays, it was proposed that no house should be opened on Sundays between the hours of ten o'clock in the morning and one in the afternoon. By the existing law no house could be opened before one o'clock in the afternoon on Sundays, and he should therefore propose that the words ten o'clock should be omitted, and that the houses should not be permitted to open on Sundays before one o'clock, and that they should be closed between the hours of three o'clock and five o'clock in the evening.Mr. Pakington
984 would rather reject the clause altogether, 'and leave the law just as it stood now. He objected especially to the time for shutting being dependent on the population in each parish,
984Lord G. Somerset
 observed that the bill was founded on the recommendations of the committee of 1834, and when they adopted the restrictions recommended by that committee, they must recollect that the committee reported also in favour of equalising the hours for opening and shutting the beerhouses and public houses; if, therefore, they took one part of the recommendations of that committee, and placed restrictions on the sale of beer in beer-houses, they ought to take all parts of the report. There was, however, a difficulty in fixing hours for the closing of public houses against travellers, and the object of the bill was, without interfering with the licensed victuallers, to give as much benefit to the beer-houses as was intended by the committee, with the difference only that there was no necessity of providing for travellers. The House would act unfairly if they took only the restrictive parts of the report of the committee, and gave up the benefits proposed to be conferred on the beer-houses. With respect to the hour of opening, he did not object to five o'clock instead of four.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the House had not been informed of any mischiefs arising from the present method of leaving the hours to be fixed by the magistrates. And he could not help thinking that the attempt to fix an uniformity of hours for all places would be productive of mischief.Mr. Cresswell
985 said, that in Surrey the beer-houses were shut at ten o'clock, whilst just over the other side of the water in Middlesex, the hour was eleven o'clock and this discrepancy had created great dissatisfaction. A distinction between the licensed victuallers and the beer-sellers, arising from the necessity of the former having their houses open at all times to travellers, did exist, and could not be prevented, but the hours for all beer-houses ought to be alike. He would also propose to leave out the words which required the houses to be shut up from three to five on Sundays, during the supposed afternoon service, seeing that those hours varied in different parishes, and frequently in the same parish. His proposal would be to keep all the houses shut till one
985Mr. Hawes
 found that public-houses were placed under the restriction proposed by the clause, and he thought it best that the practice should be assimilated.Mr. Pakington
l. thought the distinction of districts drawn by the clause was insufficient and defective. The distinction was attempted to be drawn by the number of inhabitants in the parish, but it very frequently happened that a parish containing 2,000 persons was precisely similar in position to one in which there were 10,000l.Sir R. Peel
 admitted that the provision was defective, but he thought that this was not the only point in which the bill was defective. There was only a choice of difficulties, of which the least appeared to him to have been selected.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it better to define the hours of opening and closing; these houses by the precise terms of an Act of Parliament than to leave it open to magistrates of districts to fix different periods for that purpose.Mr. J. Jervis
 suggested that the magistrates at quarter sessions assembled should have the power confided to them of fixing the hour of closing beer-houses within the district over which they should preside.Mr. Miles
 thought that if this suggestion were adopted, the plan would be open to all the objections which had been urged against the system before established, by which jurisdiction was given to magistrates at petty sessions. He saw no reason why eleven o'clock should not be adopted as the hour to be universally observed as that at which beer-houses should be closed.Sir George Strickland
 thought that in London and Westminster the hours might be taken at twelve, and that elsewhere eleven o'clock should be fixed.Mr. J. Jervis
 thought great practical inconvenience would arise if the population of parishes were made the criterion by which the hour of closing was decided upon. He thought that the distinction as regarded the hour of closing should be between the towns and the rural districts. The decision as to which should be considered a rural district, and which a town district, might safely be left to the magistrates, with a power to the Secretary of State to review their decision.Sir R. Peel
 thought one uniform hour of closing would be preferable to the plan of closing in the towns at one hour, and the rural districts at another.Mr. Elliot
 moved an amendment to leave out the words applying the clause to places of which the population exceeded ten thousand.Mr. Grimsditch
 opposed the clause, as he doubted whether, even if it were passed, it would effect the good the hon. and learned Gentleman expected from it. There was no doubt it would be open to a great deal of evasion.Mr. Pakington
l.974 opposed the bill, because he thought it would in fact legalize seduction on the part of the rich. Any man who
l.974Mr. Hawes
967 must decline, in the present state of the negotiation, to give any information as to what proposals had been, made on the part of the British Government. At the same time he would say, that it would be extremely impolitic to give any one foreign country an advantage with regard to the importation of their wines into England, over other foreign
967Mr. Labouchere
 approved of the principles of the bill, and would support the second reading, without, however, expressing any opinion upon its details.Mr. Freshfield
 thought something should be done to repress indiscriminate seduction; and that some protection should be afforded to the female which the present law did not give her. Under the state of the law which until lately existed, the man who seduced a woman was bound to support her child if she had one, and this led to some degree of circumspection on his part. Under the present law there was no protection for the female sex; and he thought that some attempt should be made to remedy this evil. With regard to seductions under promise of marriage there might certainly be some difficulty in proving such a case. But in many instances it might be done. For instance, it very frequently happened that a man seduced a woman after having as a blind published the banns of marriage, and in such a case there could be no difficulty on the score of evidence. With respect to the bill now before the House, though he (Mr. Benett) did not approve of much of it in detail, he should mark his approval of its principles by voting for the second reading.Mr. Benett
l.973 believed the new poor-law had operated as a great protection to females by removing those temptations which formerly existed for consenting to the improper addresses of men. He thought, however, that something should yet be done to give further protection to women seduced under promise of marriage, which was proposed to be done by this bill. He did not approve, however, of giving the
l.973Mr. Slaney
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, whether or not the reduction in the duty on the wines of France, forming part of the arrangements in the pending negotiations for a commercial treaty with that country, was to be extended also to the wines of Portugal, Spain, Sicily, and the Rhenish provinces, as well as in a proportionate degree to those of our own colony, the Cape of Good Hope; whether, in the conclusion of a treaty with France, involving in public opinion, amongst other important considerations affecting our commercial interests, a loss to the revenue to an amount considerably exceeding half a million sterling, instead of the smaller sum indicated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in opening his budget—whether, in the conclusion of such a treaty, the Government would act upon their own responsibility, or call upon Parliament for a preliminary decision on the policy of the measure?Mr. Mackinnon
l.coram testibusl.972 rose to oppose the motion. The bill introduced a novel principle into our legislation, and that, too, a principle of great danger. He would not now enter into a contest with the hon. Member opposite, as to whether the seduction clauses of the Poor Law Amendment Act, had had a good or a bad effect: he would only say, that from all he had heard, he believed, they had had a very good effect, and that seduction was much less common than it had been previous to the passing of that act. He would also add, that he thought the proposed system would occasion a much greater amount of seduction than had been ever before known. He would now point out the details of the bill. For the first time in the legislation of this country, there was to be a compensation purely for the loss of chastity, and for the first time for a great many years, the want of chastity was to be made a crime. At one time fornication had been a crime by law, but that had been found to be so inconvenient, that the law was rarely enforced. The bill of the hon. Gentleman said, that any woman who should be seduced by promise of marriage, might go before a justice of peace, who was to summon the supposed seducer before the petty sessions, in order that they might hear the complaint. What a wide door this would open to vice and fraud! In the first place, women would be much less
l.coram testibusl.972The Attorney-General
 said, that having given notice of his intention to move the Order of the Day at five o'clock for going into Committee on the Registration of Voters' Bill (Ireland), he should have risen for that purpose, but that he understood the noble Lord opposite would have to make an announcement to the House upon a subject, with reference to which there could be no feeling but one of entire unanimity upon all sides of the House. It was extremely desirable that such a subject should not be mixed up with any party feeling; and he therefore abstained, for the present, from moving the order of the day.Lord Stanley
105210511050 observed, that it would not be necessary for him to trouble the House with many remarks on the important motion he had now to submit, of which he had only given notice last night. The object he had in view, was, he thought, sufficiently evident from the terms of the notice he had given, and he should carefully abstain from speaking of the provisions of any of the Registration Bills now before the House, because, he was fully aware, if he were to do so, that it would lead to a discussion, which would probably be characterized by some of that excitement and party spirit, to avoid which was the sole object of the motion he was about to make. That this question of registration, the most important almost in a constitutional point of view, that could be discussed, and of the most vital importance to those who sent them there, ought not to be treated in a party spirit, he had, he thought, given sufficient, and to him, most painful, proof. It was in the same spirit which had dictated his conduct on a former occasion that he now ventured to bring forward a proposition, which, in his opinion, at least, afforded, if not the only, at least the best, chance of discussing those provisions in that calm and temperate manner from which alone any safe legislation could result. He had expressed an opinion formerly, that it would not be difficult to alter the bill of his noble Friend, the Member for North Lancashire, in such a
105210511050Mr. C. Wood
1055Hear.Hear.10541053 was quite satisfied, that debating over and over again the same question, in order to obtain the advantage —the advantage only on this occasion he meant—of the Speaker leaving the chair, tended rather to delay business than to secure fair and temperate discussion. He gave his hon. Friend, the Member for Halifax, the fullest credit for the declaration, that he had no other object in view than a fair and calm discussion of the questions that related both to England and Ireland, but having said thus much, he must add, that if there was a single form of motion calculated, if successful, to prevent the discussion of his bill, and quietly to shelve it without exposing the House to the necessity or the risk of giving a vote against the principle or any of the details, that precise course was the one which had suggested itself to his hon. Friend, the Member for Halifax. His hon. Friend said, it was impossible to discuss calmly and temperately on the Irish bill those provisions which be thought might be so discussed with reference to the English bill. He thought his hon. Friend would do him the justice to say, that so far as he was concerned, he had been most anxious to remove from the discussions which had taken place everything like irritation. He had been attacked with personalities which he had declined to answer—he had sedulously avoided the employment of a single irritating word to any Gentleman. His only object was, that the House, by going into Committee, should have the opportunity of doing that which the hon. Member for Halifax himself said might be done—of amending the bill as it now stood in such a manner as to render it acceptable to the great majority of the House. But to suppose, that the questions would be more temperately and fairly discussed, while they were nominally occupied with the English bill, when English and Irish interests would be at the same time in the mind of every man, and both would be virtually discussed at once, was, in the present condition of parties, or, he was afraid, in any condition, to entertain a very chimerical expectation. Now, if the proposition of his hon. Friend, the Member for Halifax, had been made on the part of her Majesty's Government in the commencement
1055Hear.Hear.10541053Lord Stanley
sine die.1056 said, that he felt this was a very vital bill to Ireland; and he looked upon it in no other light than one of disqualification and disfranchisement. On a former evening a noble Lord opposite had mentioned some cases of personation as having occurred in the county of Wicklow, and giving as his authority the name of a Mr. Sims. Now he (Mr. J. Grattan) had since written to Mr. Sims on the subject, who, in reply, informed him that he knew nothing of the facts complained of, and that they could not have occurred without his being informed of them, and therefore that he did not believe they had occurred. Another individual, a clergyman, had written to him to the same effect on the subject. With respect to certain fictitious votes, also complained of by the same noble Lord, he had been assured by the same individual he had just mentioned, that he did not know of one fictitious vote in the county. Looking at this information, he could not but come to the conclusion that the noble Lord's statement on this subject was totally incorrect and unfounded. With respect to the motion of the hon. Member for Halifax, he (Mr. Grattan) should vote for it,
sine die.1056Mr. J. Grattan
 thought himself entitled in courtesy to have an intimation of the communication before it was made to the House. He had mentioned the name of the individual who informed him, and he now stated his belief that the facts then alleged had occurred. They were the subject of common conversation in the country.Viscount Powerscourt
105910581057: The noble Lord has assumed that he has shown an example of temperance and moderation which ought to be followed, and at the same time time he has accused me of having pursued a disingenuous course, and he has accused generally those who claim the franchise in Ireland of fraud in every shape and degree. Now, sir, I think that the defence devolves on me to show that I am not liable to the reproach which the noble Lord utters against me. The noble Lord knows that with respect to the registration in England and Ireland the Government has introduced several bills to this House. The noble Lord must also be aware, that there is distributed at the end of every session a pamphlet, bearing the name of Lord Lyndhurst. And the whole substance of those pamphlets consisted of this accusation, that we passed bills, and sent them through this House, without agreeing to the amendments which their Lordships made; or that we sent them in such a shape as not to accord with the opinions of their Lordships. I certainly cannot go the length to which that noble Lord on a former occasion seemed disposed to proceed, namely, that whenever our opinions differ from their Lordships, we ought to relinquish our own, and adopt the views of their Lordships. Their opinions may be the best or they may not, but for my part I am not prepared to say that it would be best for the welfare of the country that we should declare our readiness to take such a course. But this course I was prepared to take, seeing the time which was lost in passing bills which, after a great deal of discussion, were rejected by the Lords; and seeing that we thereby were deprived of all chance of carrying them into effect, I was prepared to take such subjects into consideration as it
105910581057Lord J. Russell
sine die,1062sine die.primâ10611060sine diesine die remarked, that the hon. Member for Wicklow had declared that he would on no account give his assent to any motion which would have the effect of postponing sine die,1062sine die.primâ10611060sine diesine dieSir R. Peel
sine die1063sine die. rose for the purpose of setting right a misunderstanding of what had fallen from his noble Friend on the part of the right hon. Baronet, who had said that never until this year had it occurred to his noble Friend, or to any of her Majesty's Government, he supposed, that the question of the English registration ought to be settled before that of the Irish registration. Why, the fact was, that never until the present Session did it occur to any man to bring forward such a measure, as that of the noble Lord, for correcting the voting lists of Ireland. Again, nothing could be more unlike what his noble Friend meant than the impression which the right hon. Baronet seemed to have taken, that he wished to postpone the Irish registration sine die1063sine die.Viscount Palmerston
 denied that the charges of corruption, fraud, personation, and perjury, which had been made against the Irish constituency could be maintained. They were not supported even by the evidence taken before the committee to fictitious votes; and he did not believe that since the Reform Bill was passed into a law there had been a single instance of corruption proved against a single Irish voter before the committees for trying election petitions. Whatever irregularities or improprieties there might have been, they were not greater nor more numerous than those which had taken place in England.Mr. Callaghan
106610651064 observed that it had
106610651064Viscount Howick
10681067 declared that, if the matter rested upon his individual decision, he should adopt a similar course to that which was taken by the Tory predecessors of the Members opposite: when a bill for Irish liberty was brought before them, they kicked it over the bar, and he should rejoice in seeing the present bill submitted to the like treatment. The noble Lord opposite desired freedom from intimidation. Why did he not seek for it as regarded England and Scotland equally with Ireland? Why did the mere intervention of St. George's Channel make so material a difference? Why grant those advantages to freemen which he denied to freeholders? Why, but because that would involve Orange interests, and with them he dare not meddle? He was ready enough to attack freeholders, but he took care to let the corporations alone. Surely if the good of Ireland were the object sought, they might wait for a little, and try the effect of a similar measure upon England. The noble Lord came forward as a
10681067Mr. H. Grattan
 begged to say one word. He had not laughed at any thing which affected the freedom or the interests of Ireland—he was incapable of any such thing; but he had laughed when the hon. Member opposite related his conversation with a Tory Member respecting the fatal effects of passing this bill, should all the powers of Europe be arrayed against England—at that he certainly had laughed.Sir E. B. Sugden
l.1069l.l. said, that in the discussion of this question various matters quite unconnected with it had been introduced, while the real point to be ascertained was, whether this bill was fit to be adopted in Ireland; and not what might or might not be the opinion of the judges of that country on the subject of value. With respect to the petition from Drogheda that had been recently presented by the hon. Member for Londonderry, he had just seen in a Drogheda paper communications from no less than eighteen persons, saying that their names had been forged to that petition. One person, too, who was said to have signed it, was a boy of three years old, and another had been dead some time. He would say, that never in his experience had he known an instance of such personation. He should certainly vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Halifax, because by so doing he thought he should be at least postponing the bill of the noble Lord. He considered that that bill was so monstrous in its provisions, that no alteration without cutting down the principle of it could make it acceptable to the people of Ireland. The system of annual registration was most objectionable; it would go on to the utter disfranchisement of the 10l.1069l.l.Sir W. Somerville
 said, he could not give his vote on this occasion without offering his most distinct opposition to this bill. There was, indeed, no man who represented a constituency in Ireland who ought not to take every opportunity of doing so. He considered this measure the most destructive to the liberties of Ireland of any that had ever been proposed in that House. Its effect would be the destruction of the Catholic constituencies in that country. It was impossible to look into it, and not to see what were the real intentions of the noble Lord who proposed it; it was to embarrass the franchise in every possible way, and to increase the present difficulties of registration. It would place the constituencies of Ireland in a worse position than they were in before the measure of Catholic emancipation passed. The noble Lord had not made any attack on the liberties of the people of England, but had reserved all his malice for the people of Ireland.Mr. Dillon Browne
 was sure that the hon. Member would see that in using the word "malice," he had gone beyond his own intention.Lord Stanley
 said, he might be going beyond Parliamentary language, but he had not gone beyond his own meaning.Mr. D. Browne
 said, the hon. Gentleman must be perfectly aware that his last expression was contrary to all Parliamentary usage. He, therefore, called on the hon. Member to retract that expression.The Speaker
1070 said, he had no other course to pursue than to retract the expression he had used; but he certainly
1070Mr. D. Browne
 rose to order, and respectfully submitted, whether, in debating any measure, it was allowed to any hon. Member to cast personalities on another, and impute motives perfectly irrelevant to the question.Viscount Dungannon
 said, the noble Lord was right in saying, that no hon. Member could with propriety be guilty of any personality towards another hon. Member, and he was carefully watching the hon. Member, and if he had made any approach to personality, he should have interposed.The Speaker
 here made a remark, apparently directed to Lord Dungannon, which we did not hear, it being drowned in cries of "Order!"Mr. D. Browne
 said, the last expression of the hon. Member was exceedingly improper.The Speaker
 said, he did not mean to use any disrespectful language to the House, he spoke a fact. If he had conducted himself disrespectfully, he apologized for it. He only stated a fact.Mr. D. Browne
.—If the hon. Member will only consult the respect due to the House, he will not weaken his apology by repeating the expression. I call upon the hon. Member to make the apology due to the noble Lord and to the House.The Speaker
1071 thought that the noble Lord had misunderstood him, but he could only say, that if he had used language offensive to the noble Lord, or to the House, he was ready to apologise for it. He had meant to give no offence, and the observation which had fallen from him, was the result of his having been interrupted by the noble Lord, when he was clearly not out of order. If, however, he repeated, he had been guilty of offence towards the noble Lord, he regretted it. What he had been about to say when interrupted was, that the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, had always endeavoured to thwart the
1071Mr. D. Browne
1072 said, he stood in a peculiar situation. Hitherto he had not voted on this question, and it was with pain he withheld the small degree of
1072Sir C. Lemon
 said, he had had great difficulty in making up his mind but he could no longer hesitate in giving his vote for the amendment of the hon. Member for Halifax. Could any one who witnessed the fate of Irish bills, come to any other conclusion? They had now the opportunity of improving the Irish system on English grounds. He objected on principle to the noble Lord's bill— namely, on the principle of annual registration. They ought first to improve the English system, and follow it up with an Irish bill.Mr. Slaney
1073 said, he should not detain the House many minutes. Had hon. Members opposite considered the effect of votes adverse to Ireland on the repeal of the union? They said that by the union you ought to assimilate the two countries. But if they did assimilate them at all, it should be, as far as regarded the franchise to return Members to that House, The first object, then, should be to amend the registration in England, and afterwards consider how far the improvements applied to Ireland. No one said the
1073Mr. O'Connell
 thought it was useless to proceed with the present bill, as no useful system of registration could be carried into operation in Ireland without a specification of the qualification.Mr. V. Stuart
 rose to move, that it be an instruction to the committee to enable persons to register their votes upon proof of their having paid one year's poor-rates, on a valuation to be hereafter determined. His present object was more to establish the principle than to specify the actual amount to which the voter should berated, and be had accordingly abstained from any such specification. The hon. Member concluded by moving an instruction to the committee to enable every person otherwise qualified who shall have for the period of one year paid poor-rates on a valuation of — per annum to register his vote.Sir D. Norreys
vexata questio1079 said, that he had purposely waited for a few minutes before he rose, as this was a question on which h had expected that the noble Lord, the Secretary, and the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Solicitor General for Ireland, would have expressed an opinion. No one could more regret than he did, that any doubt should have been thrown on the meaning of the Irish Reform Bill, so far as regarded the words "beneficial interest," knowing as he did the meaning which the House of Commons put upon them at the time. It was this, that the property qualifying a voter should be to him of a certain clear yearly amount, be it freehold or leasehold. These were the words of the English Reform Bill, on which no English judge or lawyer had yet suggested any doubt. The words in the Irish Reform Bill were intended to be synonymous with those in the English Reform Bill; and if there were any doubt on that point, he should like to see that
vexata questio1079Lord Stanley
"I think it should be deemed sufficient that the applicant has a beneficial interest of ten pounds above the rent he pays, and that he should not be called upon to prove that a solvent tenant would give him ten pounds a year for the property above the rent which he himself paid."1080 could not agree with the noble Lord, that this was an inappropriate occasion for defining the basis of the franchise in Ireland. Indeed, it seemed to him to be the most fitting occasion for doing so, for surely before the House proceeded to constitute a system of registration it was but proper they should define that which was to be registered. He, therefore, thought the House ought to begin by defining the qualification, instead of prematurely devising a means for giving effect to what could be scarcely said to have an existence. Looking back to opinions which had formerly been expressed upon this subject—expressed by the noble Lord himself in 1829, and by Members of the Government in 1832, he could not help feeling that a gross fraud had been practised upon the Irish. They had been led to believe, that an enlarged franchise was to be conferred upon them. When it was proposed to substitute the ten pound for the forty shilling freeholders, the noble Lord declared that the test should be the possession of a "beneficial interest of ten pounds, and not the willingness of a solvent tenant to give ten pounds more than the rent paid by the claimant to register," The noble Lord said,—
"I think it should be deemed sufficient that the applicant has a beneficial interest of ten pounds above the rent he pays, and that he should not be called upon to prove that a solvent tenant would give him ten pounds a year for the property above the rent which he himself paid."1080Mr. Warburton
10821081 said, the noble Lord opposite (Lord Stanley) had expressed his surprise that he had not risen to intimate what course the Government would pursue with respect to the instruction that had been moved by the hon. Member for Mallow. He certainly begged to intimate to the noble Lord that he had no disposition to do the honours of the noble Lord's bill, and he had no doubt, that in its progress through the committee he would find himself engaged in many such issues as the present. At the same time he could assure the noble Lord, that in the course of the bill through committee, the Government would not be backward in proposing any amendments which they thought to be desirable. With respect to the instruction that had been moved by the hon. Member for Mallow, he certainly went along with that hon. Member in thinking that it was desirable that this question of qualification should be placed on a satisfactory basis. On that point he did not think the bill of the noble Lord any amendment, and he would even say, that he did not think that the bill brought in by his hon. Friend, the Solicitor General for Ireland, placed the qualification on a satisfactory basis. However, he thought that the measure brought forward by the Government was much better than that which the noble Lord insisted on cramming down their throats. He thought it a defect in both bills, that they allowed the franchise to rest upon opinions which he conceived to be a source of many of the evils and difficulties of the over-reach-
10821081Viscount Morpeth
 said, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Mallow, had been indistinctly heard at his (Mr. Lucas's) side of the House. He, therefore, thought that the House was not in a condition to give his hon. Friend's proposition that attention which its importance demanded. He would suggest to his hon. Friend to withdraw his proposition for the present, in order that it might be more fully considered hereafter. He was sure, from what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite, as well as the noble Lord near him, that this proposition, on a future occasion, would have a fair and patient hearing.Mr. Lucas
l.l.l.l.l1083, without pretending to say whether the rating clause proposed by his hon. Friend were the best mode of settling the franchise, thought at all events that it was a very fit subject for consideration. It was one which required calm and deliberate discussion in committee, where hon. Members having the opportunity of speaking more than once might protect themselves against any misconstruction of their views. If the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, had this opportunity, he would doubtless not allow it to be understood that his objection to define the franchise at present arose from a disinclination to connect the operation of the Poor-law Bill with any political object. Why, was it not actually so connected? Was not the rate made the test of the franchise in cities? Such was the effect of the Corporation Bill as it had gone up to the House of Lords, and he could see no great mischief in applying to counties a standard which the House
l.l.l.l.l1083Mr. O'Connell
ll1084 said, that as he had been referred to by the hon. and learned Member, he would state, that after the words "to him" had been struck out of the qua-
ll1084Dr. Lefroy
1085l felt himself compelled to say a few words, in order to guard against any misconstruction as to the motives of the vote which he should give on this subject. In a former debate the hon. Member for Monaghan had stated what were his opinions on this question of a Poor-law rating, and in the general statement of those views he concurred. The question, however, before the House was, whether the standard of the franchise should be ascertained in a certain manner, and whether the committee should have power to insert the clauses necessary to carry that object into effect. That being so, it was necessary that he should refer to the course which had been advisedly taken by the Government, which was to bring in one bill for the reform of the system of registration, and a separate bill for the definition of the franchise, and consequently he could not consistently vote with the hon. Gentleman who had proposed to introduce a test for the franchise into the present bill. At the same time he must say that he thought the bill of the noble Lord did contain a determination on the franchise, and that a different determination from that which was stated in the other House of Parliament by the framers of the Reform Act in 1832. As to the measure itself, he entirely agreed with his noble Friend and the hon. Member for Monaghan, that we ought to obtain some more certain definition of the franchise, because at present it was left to opinion. Now, if we could obtain some facts to guide the judgment, that would be a great step gained. If a freeholder had let his premises, there was no difficulty in ascertaining whether he received 101085lLord J. Russell
ll had distinctly stated to the House on a former occasion, that ten judges against two had decided the question respecting qualification in this way,— they were of opinion that it should be left to the jury to say whether or not a solvent tenant would give 10llMr. Litton
 said, the House would do itself great injustice if it proceeded with this bill, unless it reserved to itself the right to declare the law relative to the qualification of voters. He thought the amendment of the hon. Member for Bridport a better one than that of the hon. Member for Mallow, and he should therefore support it.Sir C. Grey
l1086 said, the reason why he had consented to the withdrawal of the motion of the hon. Member for Mallow was that he thought the other question would be discussed before the House went into committee; but the Speaker had decided to the contrary. Now, as that question could not be discussed in committee, it
l1086Mr. O'Connell
l contended, that according to the description in the Reform Act, the qualification should be a clear yearly value of 10lDr. Lefroy
 observed, that the body of the bill was altered, that the oath was altered, and yet hon. Members on the other side affirmed, that it was all the same thing.Mr. O'Connell
 observed, that the Reform Act did not touch the fee simple qualifications—it left that precisely as it had been settled by the act of 1829.Lord Stanley
 said, that the registries under the bill now before the House included every species of qualification.Mr. O'Connell
1087 replied, that the oath had been altered, and that no one could now acquire a right, except under the same qualification as that given by the 9th of George 4th. The Reform Act conferred no right. The rights which existed before it were left untouched. The present bill required electors to register in a certain
1087Lord Stanley
 said, that his noble Friend, the Member for North Lancashire, was quite right, and yet the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was not wrong. The Irish elector was to look to the Reform Act for his mode of registration, and to the act of 1829 for his qualification.Sir E. B. Sugden
 called the attention of the House to the fact that a most able man, and a great lawyer, had said, that the noble Lord was quite right, and that he was not wrong. Surely it must be admitted that such a state of the case required that time ought to be allowed for a reconsideration of the matter.Mr. O'Connell
ll observed, that the noble Lord had said enough to show that the qualification was merely a beneficial interest, and did not require the elector to show that a solvent tenant would give 10llSir W. Somerville
l stated, that the opinion of the Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench in Ireland was, that a jury, in considering whether the tenement of one claiming to be an elector was worth 10lMr. Sergeant Jackson
" It was undoubtedly the desire of the Government to preserve the present qualification, and they considered that it was best secured by the oath which they now proposed."1088"Her Majesty's Government had not the slightest intention of altering the qualification at present existing, but they had adopted that mode of ascertaining the amount which they had thought best." said, that with regard to the speeches of the Duke of Richmond and Viscount Melbourne, which had been referred to by the hon. Member for Drogheda, he would merely read three lines from each of them, which it had not been found convenient to cite on the other side. The Duke of Richmond said this:—
" It was undoubtedly the desire of the Government to preserve the present qualification, and they considered that it was best secured by the oath which they now proposed."1088"Her Majesty's Government had not the slightest intention of altering the qualification at present existing, but they had adopted that mode of ascertaining the amount which they had thought best."Lord Stanley
: and that oath said nothing about the value of the qualification.Mr. O'Connell
 then said, that looking at the time of night at which they had arrived, it was not his intention to offer any opposition to the motion to report progress, but, considering that the principle of this bill had been discussed seven or eight nights, and affirmed in three successive divisions, and that upon two nights he had been enabled to go into committee, yet, that the whole of those two nights had been so taken up, that it was impossible for him to make the slightest progress with a single clause, he trusted that the noble Lord opposite would not consider it discourteous in him to state his determination on Monday next to move the Order of the Day for the House going into committee on this bill.Lord Stanley
1093 believed, that it would be necessary, when the Chairman reported progress, that he should ask leave to sit again on a certain day. If the noble Lord moved that the Chairman should sit again on Monday, he would certainly move as an amendment, that he should sit on Wednesday. This bill being the bill of an individual Member of that House, there was no reason why it should be interposed in the way of other business, which had been for a considerable time before Parliament, and which was fixed for Monday. More than 300 Members of the House entirely disapproved of the principle of the bill, and thought the entire bill so vicious and unjust, that it ought not to be permitted to go into committee. If it were a bill upon which the House was generally agreed to support its principle, and anxious to discuss its details in committee, then, and then only, might there be some
1093Lord J. Russell
 said, that it was perfectly competent to the noble Lord, according to the forms of the House, to take this course; and if he meant to divide tonight against the bill going into committee on Monday, he (Lord Stanley) was perfectly ready to go to a division with him.Lord Stanley
Laughter. Order! No, no.—Then I will move, as soon as we get from the committee into the House, that we adjourn. This is a bill to trample on the rights of the people of Ireland. [Cries of "Laughter. Order! No, no.Mr. O'Connell.
 rose to order amidst much confusion, and after considerable efforts, succeeded in making himself heard. "Mr. Freshfield," he said, "I demand a retractation of the excessively offensive expression which the hon. Member has just used. The term which I mean is that of 'beastly.'"Sir S. Canning
, amidst loud cries of "Chair," said, I feel assured that, considering the nature of the expression which has been used by the hon. Member—[An uproar slopped the Chairman, which lasted some time.] He then said, the expression, "bellowing," I feel assured, was an inadvertent expression, and that the hon. Member will therefore retract it.The Chairman (Mr. Freshfield)
: I used the word "bellowing." Did you ever hear any other bellowing than beastly? What sounds were they? Were they human sounds? They were what I said.Mr. O'Connell
1094: Mr. Freshfield, I beg to ask, with great respect, if, before the hon. and learned Member was called to order by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, you heard the extremely indecent interruption which was offered to the hon. Member? In my humble opinion it is disgraceful to an assembly of English gentlemen to attempt to tyrannize over one individual Member. When you, Sir, offer your
1094Mr. Lambton
 rose, not to make any observation upon expressions which had fallen from any hon. Member, but to express his disapproval of the course which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had declared his intention of adopting, as to moving the adjournment.Sir B. Hall
: I beg to remind the hon. and learned Member for Dublin that he has made use of certain expressions,—The Chairman
: Yes, Sir, I have.Mr. O'Connell
: As I was referred to on the question of order, I took upon myself to decide on the appeal which was made to me. I was not at all acquainted with the interruption which the hon. Member for Dublin met with. It is said that that hon. Member experienced particular interruption. I beg to state, with great diffidence, that it was competent to him to appeal to the chair from any such interruption. As to any strong expression arising from the excited feelings of the moment, upon that alone I gave an opinion.The Chairman
 observed, that the question now before the House lay between the Chairman and the hon. Member for Dublin. Had the attention of the Chairman been called to the interruptions which took place before the hon. Member for Dublin made the observation complained of, he would have called to order those who interrupted the hon. Member, and have had no occasion to call him to order afterwards.Mr. Ewart
The conclusion of the sentence was drowned in laughter and cries of "Hear.1095, after having tried in vain for some time to obtain a hearing, said, I don't at all wish to continue this very distressing discussion, which any one having the slightest regard for this House, or for our own characters as gentlemen, must desire to bring to a close as speedily as possible. But I must impress on you, Mr. Freshfield, and upon the House, that your efforts will be quite ineffectual to put down those who, like the hon. Member for Dublin, transgress the limits of decorum by resenting an insult in very strong terms, unless your attention is in the first instance directed to insults the most gross that I have ever seen proceeding from persons in the position of gentlemen. I will mention one instance of that interruption which has proceeded from the Opposition side during the whole of this evening. I do not know that I could fix precisely
The conclusion of the sentence was drowned in laughter and cries of "Hear.1095Mr. C. Buller
 said, that the hon. Member for Dublin had merely said that he complained of this bill as taking away the liberties of the people of Ireland, and that declaration was received with an indecent shout which was a disgrace to the House. Not merely did hon. Members shout, but they absolutely laughed in his face, standing in front of the bar, at a very short distance. When the hon. Member repeated the same declaration a second time, the same insult was repeated; and also a third. He felt proud in being an Irishman, and he would not willingly witness an insult offered to any of his countrymen. He contended, with the hon. Member for Dublin, that this bill would take away the liberties of the Irish people.Lord Clements
: The hon. Member for Dublin has used the expression "beastly," as applied to Members of this House. If he retracts that expression, I shall be satisfied. Till he does retract it, I shall not be satisfied.Lord Maidstone
Derisive shouts from the Opposition benches which drowned the remainder of the sentence.1096: I am perfectly contented with the noble Lord's dissatisfaction. Sir, I should have appealed to you; but I could see when I used that phrase as descriptive of the bill, and a shout was raised against me, that you did not interfere to prevent the interruption. The same thing happened a second time, and you did not interfere. It happened a third time, you did not interfere, and I then proceeded to vindicate myself. And then the right hon. Gentleman who had taken no part in calling upon you to preserve order, but who had sat with the most exemplary Christian patience so long as the shouting, the whistling, and
Derisive shouts from the Opposition benches which drowned the remainder of the sentence.1096Mr. O'Connell
: The hon. and learned Member for Dublin, in explaining the circumstances which induced him to use an expression which, to say the least of it, is certainly most unparliamentary, has said that if I had the same perception of the noises which struck him and other hon. Members—Sir Stratford Canning
: I speak to order. Is this to order?Mr. O'Connell
: The hon. and learned Member for Dublin pointed his observations particularly at me. I wish to reply to them. I am in the hands of the House.Sir Stratford Canning
: I hope that the right hon. Gentleman will think with me, that a sufficient explanation has been already given.The Chairman
1097: What induced me, Mr. Freshfield, to rise a second time was, that so long as I have had the honour of a seat in this House I have always understood it to be unparliamentary to impute motives to any hon. Member, and I understood the hon. and learned Member for Dublin to state, that the motives and intentions of the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, in bringing forward tin's bill, were to trample on the liberties of the people of Ireland. If the hon. and learned Member had said that such would be the effect of the noble Lord's bill, I should not have presumed to call your attention to the expression. But having heard the remarks of several hon. Gentlemen as to the importance of preserving the decency of our proceedings, I must say that I should have been wanting in the respect which I owe to the House if I had not called its attention to it. I am now in the hands of the House, and I can assure it that I am actuated by no other
1097Sir Stratford Canning
: There can be no doubt that it is irregular to impute motives to any hon. Member: but I understood the hon. and learned Member for Dublin to be speaking of the noble Lord in his public capacity, and of the tendency of the measure which he has introduced.The Chairman
: I hope that the right hon. Gentleman will not interrupt me again. I said, and I repeat it, that the bill of the noble Lord is tyrannical and despotic. I said, and I repeat it, that the noble Lord has long been the enemy of Ireland, and I know that distinct proof was offered of that fact at a public meeting by a noble Lord, who asserted, that to his knowledge during all the time he was in office in Ireland he was a constant enemy of that country. The great body of the people of Ireland know that the noble Lord has been long their enemy, and his great glorification this night is that he has once more triumphed over the rights and liberties of the Irish people. I now give the noble Lord distinct warning that I will take the most decided measures which the privileges of the House afford me to oppose the further progress of this bill; and, therefore, if the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, intends to give the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, priority for his bill on Wednesday next, I wish it to be understood that no concession on his part is to be taken as a concession on the part of independent Members in the House that this bill shall then be discussed in committee. The two noble Lords may make what arrangement they please between themselves, but I wish it to be understood that that arrangement binds no other Members but themselves.Mr. O'Connell
: I wish to call the attention of the committee to the fact that the expression "beastly" has been used, and that it has not been withdrawn, and that it has also been applied to a society of English gentlemen. I shall not speak of the palliation which has been offered for it. I, for one, cannot admit its force. The attention of the committee had been called to it, and yet it has not been retracted. I think that until the expression has been withdrawn or qualified, the committee ought not to proceed to other business.Sir R. Inglis
1098; With respect to the
1098Lord J. Russell
1099 admitted that the noble Lord opposite had had several divisions in his favour on this bill, and regretted the circumstance very severely. He would, however, never offer a factious opposition to any measure. If the hon. and learned Member for Dublin intended to repeat his proposition for the adjournment of the House, he (Sir B. Hall) should certainly vote against it on all occasions. Notwithstanding what had fallen from the noble Secretary for the colonies, he hoped that the noble Lord would give all fair priority to the bill of the noble Member
1099Sir B. Hall
 One would almost suppose that my hon. Friend, the Member for Marylebone, wishes to suggest that my opposition is factious. I say that the bill is factious. There may be a factious opposition, and there may also be a factious acquiescence.Mr. O'Connell
Cheers.: I do not understand the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. If he will speak in plainer terms, perhaps I may. All that I said was, that I would not be a party to any factious opposition. But if I find that the motion for adjournment is moved time after time in opposition to the sense of the House taken on the main question, I have no hesitation in saying, the gentleman who pursues such a course is pursuing a factious opposition.— [Cheers.Sir B. Hall
: I congratulate the hon. Member for Marylebone on the cheers which he has received from the opposite side of the House. I congratulate him also on his modesty. He declares that he could not understand me. I have not that misfortune; I understand him now well enough. The attack has come from him. He has had my reply, and, if there be any truth in that reply, he ought to feel it sorely; I hope he does.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that on this distressing occasion he was sure it would afford the highest gratification not only to the House, but to the public generally, to receive from the noble Lord the assurance, which he hoped and trusted the noble Lord would be enabled to give, that her Majesty's health had not materially suffered by the excitement and agitation which must necessarily have been, more or less, created in her Majesty's mind by this outrageous, shocking, and diabolical attempt at assassination. Perhaps his noble Friend would also be kind enough to inform the House whether evidence had been adduced at the Home-office criminatory of any other parties, in order to satisfy the public mind on this point.Mr. James
 had no hesitation in answering that, as to the first question, he had had the honour of an audience of her Majesty two hours before, when he had received from her Majesty's own lips the assurance that her health had not suffered. As to the second question, the hon. Gentleman would himself see that it was not a proper one to answer.Lord J. Russell
 said, if he declined saying anything on that subject at present, he begged the hon. Gentleman would not suppose it was because he did not feel deeply the importance and value of his suggestion.Lord J. Russell
 said, that the noble Lord had accurately anticipated his intention, which was to move an Address to her Majesty on the late atrocious and treasonable attempt. As on some previous occasions there had been a joint Address of both Houses of Parliament, he thought it desirable in this instance also to take a course in which both Houses would at once agree—a course which he held to be preferable to proposing a separate address. It was the intention of the noble Viscount, the First Lord of the Treasury, to ask the consent of the other House of Parliament to an Address to her Majesty, and, if that Address were adopted, they should take measures to present to her Majesty a joint Address accordingly.Lord J. Russell
1047 appeared at the bar, and said—"I have to report to this House, that the manager of the conference on the part of their Lordships was his Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex, and that the subject of the conference was to acquaint this House that their Lordships, in consequence of a most atrocious and treasonable attempt on her Majesty's person, had taken that attempt into consideration, and agreed to an Address thereon,
1047Lord J. Russell
1048loud cheers from all sides again rose. I can expect but one universal feeling of indignation and horror [1048loud cheers from all sidesLord J. Russell
1049 said, there was a deep feeling in his mind, which he trusted would be responded to by the country, that there ought to be some public expression of thankfulness to that God to whom
1049Mr. Plumptre
: Sir, this is one of those occasions on which it is impossible not to feel that language is a very imperfect medium for conveying the sentiments to which events give rise. I therefore shall content myself, in seconding the noble Lord's motion, with expressing, on the part of those with whom I have the satisfaction of acting in public life, our unanimous concurrence in the sentiments which the noble Lord has expressed of horror and indignation at this atrocious crime, of heartfelt congratulation at her Majesty's escape, and of a wish to join in an earnest prayer that that same protection which has warded from her Majesty the danger with which she was threatened, may continue to defend her from all future dangers.Sir R. Peel
 said, that it was now nearly six months since the return of Mr. Macgregor from his Italian tour, and he wished to ask the noble Lord when that gentleman's report would be laid on the table of the House?Mr. Bailey
11371136l.113511341133ad libitum1132"He ought not to omit in his report a reference to the present state of municipal institutions, and Captain Pringle would furnish the fullest information on this subject. He did not propose to interfere with the present town-
113211311130: It was not certainly his intention to have troubled the House before the third reading was agreed to, however strongly he felt some objections to certain clauses in this bill. But as the right hon. Baronet had stated some objections to other clauses, and as he thought it likely that his noble Friend would reply, it might be as well for him to state his views at once, rather than have a division and subsequent debate when the bill passed its present stage. Before he made any observations on the measure itself, he must express his surprise that the hon. Baronet (Sir R. inglis), placing entire confidence in the right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel), holding him to be the responsible Minister of the country, and being on all occasions ready to support him, should have now deserted him on the grounds which he stated. But whether the hon. Baronet thought the course of the right hon. Baronet good or not, he, on behalf of the people of Canada, begged leave to express to the right hon. Baronet his warmest thanks for the candid and able manner in which he had come forward to share the responsibility of this measure. He knew of what value the right hon. Baronet's support would be reckoned in that country—he knew of what value it was that nearly as unanimous an assent as possible should be given by that House. Therefore he, for one, felt deeply the obligation which the right hon. Gentleman had imposed on the friends of Canada. With the right hon. Baronet he entertained considerable apprehensions with regard to the issue of this settlement. He never disguised from himself that adopt what suggestions they might from men entitled to great weight and authority, still any experiment which might be determined on would be attended with great risk and danger; but he entirely agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that in the midst of the difficulties which surrounded the question we had mainly to look for their solution to
11371136l.113511341133ad libitum1132"He ought not to omit in his report a reference to the present state of municipal institutions, and Captain Pringle would furnish the fullest information on this subject. He did not propose to interfere with the present town-
113211311130Mr. E. Ellice
1143114211411140habitans11391138, not having had an opportunity of expressing his opinion upon this subject in any of the previous stages of the bill, hoped to obtain the indulgence of the House whilst he very briefly stated them now. He fully concurred in all that had fallen from his right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth, and in much that he had just heard with very sincere satisfaction proceeding from one so experienced in Canadian affairs, as his right hon. Friend who last addressed the House. He was not insensible to the hazard and danger which accompanied any step which this country might take upon a subject so involved and complicated as the affairs of Canada; but he was satisfied that if the
1143114211411140habitans11391138Lord Stanley
 entirely concurred in every word that had fallen from the noble Lord, with respect to the district administration. All that he contended for was, that the provincial Legislature would he the best judge as to the power that should be vested in the district courts, as well as for the purposes for which they should be established.Mr. Edward Ellice
 thought, that these gentlemen had strong claims for remuneration. As to the rule respecting grants of land, the eminent services of these parties had been rendered to the country long before that rule was laid down, and it ought not, therefore, to apply to them.Sir T. Acland
 differed with regret from his hon. Friend, but if the principles of the system of Irish educat on were correctly laid down by his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) they had been much departed from since. In 1835, in 1836, and in 1837, they had been departed from, and they were departed from in the altered regulations of the commissioners now on the table. The first of those altered regulations was the fraudulent attempt to entrap the Synod of Ulster into agreeing in them, by representing that the system was still the same as that originally propounded by the noble Lord. He did not agree with the system of the noble Lord, but, at least, it was intelligible. The main feature of that system was, that religious opinions should not be inculcated to colour the instruction given at the schools. But now the formularies and catechisms which the noble Lord would have excluded, were allowed to be introduced. He should be able fully to prove, that the present system had no trace of the original plan when the question came fairly before them, but he would not, however, enter upon such a subject on a motion like the present, abruptly to withhold the grant.Mr. Colquhoun
 said, there could be no doubt of the great merits of the gentlemen referred to, but not having considered the point suggested, he could not at present say anything as to giving them the remuneration proposed. As to grants of land, that system had led to such abuses, that it had been altogether abandoned, and he could not consent to make any exceptions to the rule which had been fixed in that respect.Lord J. Russell
115311521151Hear, hear."We have no desire to interfere unnecessarily with questions of detail, but we cannot omit respectfully soliciting your Majesty's attention to the introduction of a system of municipal government in Lower Canada, in order to establish a system of local taxation upon the same principle as is established in Upper Canada." ["Hear, hear.1150114911481147 acknowledged that whatever difficulties might attend the after government of the Canadas, they certainly would not arise from any party feeling manifested in the discussion of this bill, and that whatever success might accompany the measure, that success was rendered far more probable after the calm and dispassionate mode in which its provisions had that night been discussed. With regard to the general measure, and to the principle of the union, he believed that he had always stated, as the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had that evening stated, and as the hon. Member for Droitwich had admitted, that it was rather from a comparison of the difficulties and dangers attending on other courses, and not from any abstract principle, that he was led to prefer this measure for the union of the two provinces. He had considered carefully every proposition that had been made. He would not say that he had gone through the eight alternatives of Chief Justice Robinson, but he had considered the principal one in order to see whether it could be adopted, but the result of his examination only convinced him that there was no course which was not attended with greater difficulties than the one they had now taken—no measure less liable to objection than the bill before the House. Although there might be many objections to it, yet, on the whole, he thought it had greater prospect of success—was more likely to secure the welfare of the people of Canada, and contribute to uphold the
115311521151Hear, hear."We have no desire to interfere unnecessarily with questions of detail, but we cannot omit respectfully soliciting your Majesty's attention to the introduction of a system of municipal government in Lower Canada, in order to establish a system of local taxation upon the same principle as is established in Upper Canada." ["Hear, hear.1150114911481147Lord John Russell
 said, that the original purposes of those who framed the system had been departed from, and the present state of the case was simply this—that while the system conferred no benefit whatever on members of the Established Church, the Roman Catholics, the Presbyterians, and other sectarians looked upon Government merely as treasury agents, bound to supply them with the means of carrying on an exclusive system of education, each according to its own particular views. Throughout the whole of Ireland it was not one combined system of education, but separate systems carried on in an exclusive manner in separate schools. He hoped, that before next year, the whole subject would undergo thorough investigation.Lord Teignmouth
1154 did not mean to go into the merits of the bill, seeing the great unanimity which prevailed with respect to it as a general measure; but although he thought the noble Lord was right in giving to the objections of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Coventry, the fullest consideration, he hoped that no consideration would induce the noble Lord to abandon the clauses which related to local taxation. He feared, that the power proposed to be given of taxing wild lands would operate injuriously in reference to emigration, and he thought no power other than that of direct taxation should be placed in the hands of local bodies, because it would only tend to abuse. The establishment of local Assemblies for the administration of local affairs had been
1154Mr. Charles Buller
l. said, the hon. Member for Meath seemed to be dissatisfied that the State did not allow more than 10l.Major Cumming Bruce
: Does the hon. Baronet intend to divide the House?The Speaker
"It is with heartfelt satisfaction that I receive this address from both my Houses of Parliament. I feel deeply sensible of the mercy of Divine Providence, to whose continued protection I humbly commend myself; and I trust that, under all trials, I shall derive the same consolation and support which I now derive from the loyal and affectionate attachment of my Parliament and my people." said—I have to report to this House, that both Houses have been this day to her Majesty with the Address, to which her Majesty has been pleased to give the following most gracious answer:—
"It is with heartfelt satisfaction that I receive this address from both my Houses of Parliament. I feel deeply sensible of the mercy of Divine Providence, to whose continued protection I humbly commend myself; and I trust that, under all trials, I shall derive the same consolation and support which I now derive from the loyal and affectionate attachment of my Parliament and my people."The Speaker
1114 had a question to ask of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, in accordance with the notice which he had given yesterday. He was anxious to learn from the noble Lord whether, consistently with the public service, he could state what was the present position of the negotiations between England and France with reference to the blockade of Buenos Ayres. He was also requested by persons deeply interested in the commerce between this country and
1114Mr. Maclean
 observed, that the surveys in question had already cost very large sums. While surveys in America, conducted by able engineers, were effected at a cost of less than a farthing an acre, the surveys in Australia had cost one shilling and sixpence an acre.Mr. French
 hoped he should not be considered disrespectful if he pressed the question to a division, as no division had yet taken place on the bill. The fear he entertained was, that it might finally lead to a separation of Canada from this country; but if the bill should pass into a law, his sincere wish was, that it should be effectually carried out.Sir George Sinclair
: I cannot allow this bill to pass through its final state without briefly and respectfully recording the grounds upon which I altogether dissent from its provisions. I think that the disjunction of the Canadian provinces which took place in 1791, was a wise and statesmanlike act—and the reasons which at that time led to its adoption, continue to subsist in their full force—there being still the same marked and palpable difference between Upper and Lower Canada in respect to language, habits, interests and religion. The partnership was dissolved by mutual consent. I do not believe that either party is at all desirous to renew it, but the noble Lord determines to force upon them a connection to which they are both averse.Sir G. Sinclair
1156 said he wished to call the attention of the House to a point which had been omitted. The House was aware of the great services rendered in Australia by Sir T. Mitchell, and the officers under his command, in exploring voluntarily large tracts of land in that country, thereby adding largely to the dominions of the Crown there, and opening a large and profitable field to British industry. On all former occasions, similar services had
1156Mr. Goulburn
1159l.Cheers.G. Sinclair1158l.l. could state from experience that the system of education had succeeded in Ireland, although the noble Lord upon hearsay ventured to say that it had failed. The noble Lord knew nothing of the country, nor of those upon whom the burthen of education was thrown. It obliged him (Mr. H. Grattan) to be a schoolmaster, for he educated the children of the Duke of Buckingham in Ireland—he educated, too, the children of Mr. Lefroy, and he did not receive a shilling from either of those landlords for the children of their tenants. In the schools he referred to, the Protestant children were educated in their own tenets, and their parents continued to send them, notwithstanding the efforts that had been made to withdraw them. But then the noble Lord said, that the Board of Education was tire mere treasury for Catholics. If they were a treasury all he could say was, that it was the most niggardly treasury that had ever existed. What was the result of the present system in Ireland? They had 2,000 schools, in which were educated 192,971 boys, and 63,000 females—making a total of 255,000 males and females educated in Ireland; and yet there was on an average allowed not more than 101159l.Cheers.G. Sinclair1158l.l.Mr. H. Grattan
 said, he should divide the House against this grant. It was not a vote for national education in Ireland, for the system carried on under it was such that Protestants could not avail themselves of it.Mr. Plumptre
1162 felt it his duty as
1162Colonel Rawdon
 said, he thought it important that the present system of arbitrary government should be put an end to. He therefore withdrew his opposition to the bill, though he protested strongly against the system which had been pursued with reference to Canada.Mr. Hume
1161l. said, in rising to offer a few observations on this subject, he did not mean to say, that he would oppose the passing of this grant. He did not think it would be right, when a public establishment had entered into engagements on the faith of a grant from Parliament, to leave them without the means of fulfilling those engagements. He thought it right that the House should know the nature of this grant, and on the part of the Protestants, he felt bound to say, that this was a grant from which the Protestants of Ireland received no benefit. By the mode in which this grant was applied in Ireland, the whole body of the members of the Established Church were excluded from any benefit from it. It was customary to speak of the people of Ireland, as if the people of that country were all Roman Catholics; but it should be recollected, that there was also a large body of Presbyterians and Protestants in that country. He believed, that the Protestants of that country amounted to two millions. The Kildare-place Society had worked well, and in a report which had been made, the advantages of that society had been much underrated, and the number of schools that they had established in various parts of the country had been very much understated. He thought, that when the House was about lo vote 60.0001161l.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 said, that the House was placed in the singular position of discussing a question in the absence of the persons principally interested. Neither the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, nor the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire, thought it worth their while to be present at a discussion on the propriety of a grant which they themselves had originated. However, the learned Sergeant the Member for Bandon, had supplied their place, and had taken upon himself to explain their intentions. He (Mr. Gisborne) thought it would be peculiarly ungracious if Parliament, which, without hesitation, voted such large sums for colonial education, should refuse this small sum for Ireland. He should give his vote for the grant, because he thought it had fully answered the expectations of those who had originally supported it.Mr. Gisborne
 remarked, that the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken was in that House in 1835, when the right hon. Baronet proposed a large grant for the support of the present system, which he now so much abused, and yet the hon. Member, with all his zeal, did not then oppose the grant.Mr. Redington
1163 thought it would be unfair to resist this vote on account of partial objections, which did not touch the real principle of it. He should support the grant, because, though there were valid objections to it in detail, yet he thought
1163Mr. Gladstone
 certainly thought, that the gentlemen who had made these exploratory services, were entitled to a reward; but he considered that it would be altogether unadvisable to make any exception in their favour, of the rule which had been made as to grants of land. If they were remunerated, it should be by a money grant.Mr. Ward
11461145 felt deeply sensible how important a measure this was, both as re-
11461145Mr. Pakington
 was not of opinion that the system deserved the name of a system of national education. He maintained it was a failure in Ireland. The children of the Protestants did not attend the schools in the part of the country with which he was connected. The system carried on under the Kildare-place Society gave perfect satisfaction to that part of the country. He contended that no system of national education could be useful which was not based upon the Holy Scriptures. Mere literary education without the Scriptures, would do more harm than good to the peasantry of Ireland. He had seen the present system at work for some years in his part of the country, and certainly he was prepared to say, that it had not worked well. He had always expressed himself in opposition to this grant, as he thought, that the money might be more usefully employed; and he saw no reason to change the opinions he had many years ago expressed on this subject. He would not yield to any Member in a sincere desire to educate the people of Ireland. He only differed as to the mode of doing so.Sir R. Bateson
 expressed himself dissatisfied with the system of education at Maynooth, and would vote against this grant, if any other Member supported the motion for its rejection.Sir R. Bateson
1129per se. said, that as his right hon. Friend, though without office, was in fact the responsible Minister of the Crown, for without his right hon. Friend's sanction no measure could pass that House, and as such sanction had been given, it was idle for him to expect that his own opposition could be successful; but though the bill was already law, as far as the House was concerned, he must, sharing the responsibility, state his objections to the measure. His right hon. Friend had said, that the House had a choice of difficulties, and had pointed out three courses which it was possible to pursue. [The first of these was to unite the provinces under a constitutional Government, or secondly to leave a despotic Government in Lower Canada,] or thirdly, to make a division of the Canadas into three provinces, as suggested by Chief Justice Robinson. But there was a fourth proposition, to which his right hon. Friend did not seem to have directed his attention at all. It was to leave the constitution of Upper Canada as they found it, and to give a new constitution to Lower Canada 1129per se.Sir R. Inglis
11281127l.l.l.l.1126l.l.l.112511241123"In conformity with the desire of your Exrcellency, we have applied our deliberate consideration to the various complex interests and objects involved in the measure, and most humbly express our gratitude to her Majesty for having granted her sanction to the measure, which, from our local knowledge and the experience we have had of the government of
1123"In order to provide for the peace and tranquillity, and the good constitutional and official government of the two provinces, the political union of the two provinces under one Legislature, in the opinion of this Council, has become of indispensable and urgent necessity." (And that) "The declared determination of her Majesty, to re-unite the two provinces, is in accordance with the opinion entertained by this Council, and receives their ready acquiescence."112211211120 said, his intention was to give his support to the third reading of this bill. He felt it to be necessary to the honour and credit of Parliament, that something decisive should be done now for the government of the Canadas. After the years which had been spent in deliberation upon the state of the Canadas—after the many commissions which had been instituted—after the numerous inquiries which had been made, unless the House was now prepared to take a decisive course, either by passing this bill or by suggesting some alternative for it—if they referred the question again to the Canadas, rejecting the Government plan, and substituting no other for it, it would be undermining British ascendancy in Canada, and bringing into contempt the supremacy of the British Legislature. He wished hon. Members to tell him what course they were prepared to pursue, in case they did not adopt the bill of the noble Lord. He asked that question, because matters he thought were at last arrived at that pass, when the rejection of the measure proposed by Government ought to be accompanied by the proposition of another measure in its stead. He knew of no alternative but to attempt
11281127l.l.l.l.1126l.l.l.112511241123"In conformity with the desire of your Exrcellency, we have applied our deliberate consideration to the various complex interests and objects involved in the measure, and most humbly express our gratitude to her Majesty for having granted her sanction to the measure, which, from our local knowledge and the experience we have had of the government of
1123"In order to provide for the peace and tranquillity, and the good constitutional and official government of the two provinces, the political union of the two provinces under one Legislature, in the opinion of this Council, has become of indispensable and urgent necessity." (And that) "The declared determination of her Majesty, to re-unite the two provinces, is in accordance with the opinion entertained by this Council, and receives their ready acquiescence."112211211120Sir R. Peel
 said, that if no one would divide the House against the vote he would.Mr. Bagge
1144 said, it did not appear to him that the explanation of his right hon. Friend was quite consistent with some of the arguments which he had used in the first instance, because, if he was not mistaken, he had heard complaints from his right hon. Friend, of the great inconsistency in giving a power of taxation to the district council, and to the Legislature. He was quite sure that his hon. Friend would admit having used this as an argument, that the power granted to these bodies would infallibly clash. From that opinion, however, he entirely dissented. It appeared to him, that the clauses which it was proposed to omit were essential to the measure before the House. He did not give this as his own opinion merely, but as that of persons of much higher authority, that there was nothing so essential to free Government as a proper division of the authorities which exercised independent functions. Unless they created something of this sort, it was impossible that the united Legislature could work, for he did not disguise from himself the great practical difficulty of carrying on the government of so extensive a district by one single Legislature, and nothing but the impossibility of preserving the present state of affairs would have conciliated him to the union of the two provinces. But he thought it was absolutely impossible that the affairs of that country could be carried on if they did not allow the establishment of representative bodies in the minor districts, elected by the inhabitants, for the management of their own local affairs; and such a power was the more necessary
1144Viscount Howick
1157 said, that at least some of the Protestants gave the system their sanction, for there were, at the present moment, no fewer than sixty-two
1157Viscount Morpeth
 said, the hon. Gentleman had distinctly charged the Government with a fraudulent attempt to entrap the Synod of Ulster. Whatever imputation came from the hon. Gentleman on that head, he was fully able to bear. Everything concerning the regulations and rules of the board which had been conceded to the Synod was matter of record.Viscount Morpeth
 said, that as the hon. Member for Kent had given notice of a motion against this grant, and as the expenses for the current year were already contracted for, he suggested that the House should not be provoked into a discussion on the subject at present.Viscount Morpeth
1115 said, that there was no report to be furnished by Mr. Macgregor. The purpose for which Mr. Macgregor was sent out was this:—For some time a nego-
1115Viscount Palmerston
 replied, that the present state of the negotiations between France and Buenos Ayres, as regarded the good offices of England, was this:—Some time ago, Admiral Dupotet went out from France to take the command of the French squadron. M.—,a French diplomatic agent, was also sent out at the same time, with powers to negotiate. After remaining some weeks at Monte Video, the Admiral proceeded to Buenos Ayres. Mr. Mandeville, the British agent there, entered into a negotiation with him, and arranged to meet him on board the Actæon. At that meeting, Mr. Mandeville, by authority from the government of Buenos Ayres, made certain propositions to Admiral Dupotet, with a view to an arrangement between France and Buenos Ayres. The day after that another interview took place on board the Actæon between Mr. Mandeville, Admiral Dupotet, and Senor Arrieros, the Buenos Ayrean Minister for Foreign Affairs. Admiral Dupotet stated that he himself had no authority to negotiate, the authority being vested in M.—and returned to Monte Video to communicate with him. M.—did not feel himself authorized to accept this proposition, and thought it his duty to refer the matter to the consideration of the French government. The proposition was accordingly so referred, and arrived in Paris some short time since. But, he was not, of course, able to state to the House what proceedings had been taken by the French government. It was a duty on his part, not to express any opinion which he might entertain as to the probability of an early or late termination of the dispute. This much he could state, that no efforts would be wanting on the part of the British agents to bring the two parties to a fair and just arrangement.Viscount Palmerston
1175117411731172: With regard to the course which has been taken upon this bill, whatever may be the character of violence which has marked the discussions upon it, I trust that the House will do me the justice to say, that there has been
1175117411731172Lord Stanley
1176 feared it was scarcely possible that he should obtain the attention of the House in its present state of excitement, but the course he intended to take was one which would dispense with the necessity of entering at large into the details of the bill. It was not his intention to oppose the second reading, but he had not arrived at that determination without feeling great difficulty as to the course most expedient to pursue. A bill for settling the question of the clergy reserves in Canada was an expedient, he might almost say a necessary accompaniment of the bill for effecting a legislative union, to which he had intimated his assent on a former occasion. On the other hand, he must say, when he looked at the particular enactments of this bill, they appeared to him far beyond what the necessities of the case required, and at variance with principles which he regarded as of great importance. The title of the bill was to provide for the sale of the
1176Mr. Goulburn
vexata questiol.l.1180l.117911781177: I feel the greatest reluctance to acquiesce in the second reading of this bill. It may, perhaps, seem extraordinary that I, who expressed the opinion that the Canadas would not long remain a part of the British Empire, should take any deep interest in this bill; but I do think that, so long as the Imperial Legislature frames laws for those provinces, it is our duty to provide for their welfare, whether they remain a part of this empire or not; it is our duty to sow such seed, and only such, as will produce salutary fruit. I confess I am not a little disappointed by the bill which is now before the House; I did hope that, after the opinions which have been expressed on this subject, and the ample opportunity which has been afforded, I did hope that the noble Lord would have made this bill less objectionable than its illegal predecessor; but this bill is a very counterpart of the former, as if the noble Lord were resolved to show, that he was not to be influenced by anything that has been said, as if he were re-
vexata questiol.l.1180l.117911781177Mr. Gally Knight
eo nomine,1183" Expedient to provide for the final disposition of the lands called clergy reserves, in the province of Upper Canada, and for the appropriation of the yearly income arising or to arise, therefrom, from the maintenance of religion and the advancement of Christian knowledge within the said province."1182, after alluding to the non-attendance of hon. Members on that important subject, contrasted with the full attendance which had characterised the discussions upon the Irish Registration Bill of his noble Friend, said, that nine-tenths of the Members within that House were as ignorant, he was afraid, of the merits and demerits of the bill then under consideration as were the persons outside. It was difficult, nay, it was almost presumptuous, in him to expect the attention of the House; yet so strongly did he feel the importance of the subject, that he felt, whether the House then passed the Bill with or without, a division, that it was a duty which the House owed to itself, and to those for whom they legislated, not to decide hastily or without consideration. Two months ago he doubted whether such a principle as that contained in the bill before the House could or would be entertained by that House; much less could he suppose that it could pass almost unnoticed and unobserved. Great indeed was the excitement which prevailed when the Government announced their intention of interfering with the clergy reserve lands of Canada, and the bill which had been submitted to Parliament was drawn up in direct contradiction to the opinions of the judges. There never was any doubt that the clergy reserves in Canada were the exclusive property of a Protestant Church, and it was only considered possible that the Church of Scotland might be entitled to share in the proceeds, but, in his opinion, the terms of the Act 31st George 3rd, which spoke of various orders of clergy, rectories and parsonage houses, must have reference exclusively to the established and episcopal Clergy. When, however, he found that the Government was not content with admitting the church of Scotland to a participation in those revenues, but proposed to extend the same right to the Roman Catholic clergy, he must say that the absurdity of the scheme was only equalled by its atrocity. It was an infraction upon the rights of property, with the full possession of sixty years to legalise the title. His right hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Cambridge, had said, that if he looked to the clauses only of this bill he should regard it with unqualified disapprobation; but, he would ask, what had his right hon. Friend to look to on the present occasion? Not to the clauses, but to the principle of the bill. The bill was
eo nomine,1183" Expedient to provide for the final disposition of the lands called clergy reserves, in the province of Upper Canada, and for the appropriation of the yearly income arising or to arise, therefrom, from the maintenance of religion and the advancement of Christian knowledge within the said province."1182Sir R. Inglis
11851184 remarked that the bill was divided into two parts—one for the sale of the reserves, and the other for the distribution of the proceeds. He was of opinion that the sale of the clergy reserves was a proper measure; to that extent be would go, but no further with the bill. The hon. Baronet opposite disapproved of the distribution of the produce of the sale amongst any persuasion but the members of the Church of England; but he must admit that the English judges had gone a little further than that, and had stated that the Scotch Church according to law had a right to a share in it. This subject had been a source of con-
11851184Mr. Hume
1187"The share for the Church of Scotland shall be expended under the authority of a general assembly of ministers and elders within the said province of Upper Canada, severally deputed from the Synod of the Presbyterian Church of Upper Canada, in connexion with the Church of Scotland, and from the United Synod of Upper Canada, presided over by a commissioner to be appointed by the Governor of the said province."1186"To be taken to mean and include as well the Presbyterians in connexion with the Church of Scotland, as the Presbyterians of the United Synod in Upper Canada." said, he rose chiefly for the purpose of calling the attention of the noble Lord and the House to the manner in which it was proposed to deal with the the ministers of the Church of Scotland in this bill. It was a matter of great gratification to him, and no doubt to every native of Scotland, that the claim which had been put forward for so many years by the Church of Scotland had been confirmed by the judges of the land. But he regretted that it should be attempted to give effect to that decision of the judges in a manner which could not but give pain to the Church of Scotland; he alluded to the description which was given of that Church in the bill. He did not disapprove of the sale of the clergy reserves, nor of the proposition that a share of the produce should be given to the Churches of England and Scotland; but he regretted, that in disposing of that portion of the reserves which was to be devoted to the Church of Scotland, there should be mixed up with that Church a great number of persons who had no connexion whatever with it. They were told, that the clause of the bill allotting one fourth to the Church of Scotland, was
1187"The share for the Church of Scotland shall be expended under the authority of a general assembly of ministers and elders within the said province of Upper Canada, severally deputed from the Synod of the Presbyterian Church of Upper Canada, in connexion with the Church of Scotland, and from the United Synod of Upper Canada, presided over by a commissioner to be appointed by the Governor of the said province."1186"To be taken to mean and include as well the Presbyterians in connexion with the Church of Scotland, as the Presbyterians of the United Synod in Upper Canada."Sir G. Clerk
 objected not merely to the details, but to the principle of the bill. He was sorry to say anything which might appear unkind to Dissenters from the Establishment, many of whom he knew to be very worthy men, but he contended that they must not expect to have such measures as this passed. If the principle of this bill were once recognised, he did not see how they could afterwards maintain an Establishment in this country or in Canada. In his humble opinion, the funds raised by the sale of the clergy reserves, ought to be applied to the churches of England and of Scotland exclusively. Were the State to allow the money to be given to others than established Churches in Canada, he did not see how they could refuse support from the State to any denomination of professing Christians in this country. He considered the bill to be, in fact, a fatal attack upon the principle of Church Establishments; and, though he wished to exercise all charity to other denominations, he could not be a party to any State allowance being made to any religious community except the Established Churches of the land. On these grounds he should divide with the right hon. Baronet against the bill.Mr. Kemble
11891188 said, the hon. Gentlemen who opposed this bill, all seemed to have argued on the ground that it was a bill to explain the Act of 1791. That was not the object of the present bill, but to settle the question, which had been a source of great discontent and vexation in Canada. The Act of 1791 had a certain sense to be applied to it, and with regard to that sense certain doubts had arisen, and the matter had been referred to the judges for their opinion. But the present bill was not a bill to explain any of those doubts, or to state what were the opinions of the Legislature itself in 1791. It was a bill proposing to deal with pro-
11891188Lord J. Russell
"We fully trust that your Majesty and the Imperial Parliament, maintaining one of the first principles of the British Constitution, will preserve to the inhabitants of Upper Canada the advantages of an adequate and permanent provision for the support of public worship, being persuaded that by such means the best security will be afforded for the moral conduct of the people and the peace and happiness of society."Hume:1192"That, subject to the foregoing provisions, the residue of the said annual fund shall be applied for the support of the ministers or other religious teachers of the other religious bodies or denominations of Christians now receiving any stipend or allowance out of the revenues of Upper Canada or out of the casual and territorial revenues of the Crown in Upper Canada, and not before mentioned in this act, or otherwise generally for the support and maintenance of public worship or the erection of buildings for religious worship for the use of any denomination of Christians in such manner and proportion, and subject to such regulations and conditions, as the Governor, with the advice of his Executive Council, from time to time shall think fit."V. Smith:1191l.l.l.l.l.1190 considered the present measure to be a worse bill than that sent over by Mr. Poulett Thomson. It involved this great question—how far it was incumbent upon the Imperial Parliament to make provision for the maintenance of the Established Church in Canada? Upon the issue of the present proceeding depended this question—whether they would adopt means for the propagation of religion in Canada, not only presently, but prospectively, or whether they would abandon such a design altogether? Although he wished the Church of Scotland to be admitted to a share in those reserves, he still thought the Act of George 3rd did not admit of an interpretation favourable to that. The intention of the Act of 1791 most certainly was
"We fully trust that your Majesty and the Imperial Parliament, maintaining one of the first principles of the British Constitution, will preserve to the inhabitants of Upper Canada the advantages of an adequate and permanent provision for the support of public worship, being persuaded that by such means the best security will be afforded for the moral conduct of the people and the peace and happiness of society."Hume:1192"That, subject to the foregoing provisions, the residue of the said annual fund shall be applied for the support of the ministers or other religious teachers of the other religious bodies or denominations of Christians now receiving any stipend or allowance out of the revenues of Upper Canada or out of the casual and territorial revenues of the Crown in Upper Canada, and not before mentioned in this act, or otherwise generally for the support and maintenance of public worship or the erection of buildings for religious worship for the use of any denomination of Christians in such manner and proportion, and subject to such regulations and conditions, as the Governor, with the advice of his Executive Council, from time to time shall think fit."V. Smith:1191l.l.l.l.l.1190Mr. Pakington
1196'Non mihi res sed me rebus subjungere conor.'"imperiosorum populorum,119511941193 in one respect would certainly endeavour not to follow the example of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, but would carefully abstain from departing from the question immediately before the House. Neither would enter into the discussion of party topics
1196'Non mihi res sed me rebus subjungere conor.'"imperiosorum populorum,119511941193Mr. Labouchere
1197 thought it was most unjust to say that those who opposed the measure had no desire to see the question settled. He wished very much to have
1197Mr. Estcourt
 said he should take the same coarse, considering the bill to be one for the spoliation of the Church in Canada. It might be perfectly justifiable to appropriate the clergy reserves to the Church of Scotland, which was the established church in one part of the empire, and to the Church of England, which was the Established Church in another; but it was nothing less than spoliation to take away the property of the Protestant clergy and appropriate it to all the heterogeneous descriptions of religion now professed in Canada. It was said, that if the Imperial Parliament did not pass this bill, the first step which the united legislature of Canada would take would be to despoil the Church. That would have been a good argument against passing the Canada Union Bill. He had abandoned his opposition to that measure, because he was told that her Majesty's Government had the best means of ascertaining the feelings of the people in the colony. But if he had been told by the Government that such would have been the result of the bill, he should never have consented to its passing. He did not think this statement, which was not made then, ought to induce the House now to consent to the measure before them.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 objected to the principle of the bill, and stated that if the bill went into committee, he should bring forward objections to other parts of it.Mr. Pringle
 protested against the course of her Majesty's Government, and especially against the speech of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Labouchere). In contradiction of what his right hon. Friend had stated, Sir George Arthur, in his despatches, declared that the agitation had been confined to the newspapers. Much of this agitation had arisen from the course which, from first to last, had been pursued by her Majesty's Government, and none more than that part of it which related to the church and ecclesiastical matters, diverting the clergy reserves to all sects, and thus offering a bounty and encouragement to this sort of agitation. He protested against this measure being discussed, except with calmness and deliberation, and he deprecated the language of his right hon. Friend. A large number of Members on that (the opposition) side of the House were ready to make sacrifices on condition that a proper provision should be made for the Church of England, and he approved of the appropriation of a part to the Church of England and a part to the Church of Scotland. Further than this he would not go. If the bill should pass this House, it would not pass the House of Lords, nor would it receive the sanction of the country.Lord Teignmouth
1201"Expedient to provide for the final disposition of the lands called Clergy Reserves, in the province of Upper Canada, and for the appropriation of the yearly income arising or to arise therefrom, for the maintenance of religion, and the advancement of Christian knowledge within the said province.''"A bill to provide for the Sale of the Clergy Reserves in the province of Upper Canada, and for the distribution of the proceeds thereof."12001199 said, he felt it necessary, as he did not propose to vote with some of his hon. Friends, to explain the grounds upon which he proposed to act. Before he went, however, into the general grounds, he should advert to one point—namely, the particular clause of the bill which had been referred to by the hon. Members for Stamford and for Selkirkshire, with reference to a new general assembly in Canada for administering the temporalities of the Presbytery. The noble Lord thought, he had quite sufficiently answered the objection of the hon. Member when he assured the House that this assembly was not to alter the Westminter confession or interfere with the discipline of that body, but to regulate and distribute the shares which would accrue to the Presbyterian body, if this measure became law. He could not help still feeling a strong objection against this most anomalous body; for what would be the result of such a state of things? Strange things they had seen and would see, but a stranger thing than such an assembly, in bodily existence, they never could see. Here would
1201"Expedient to provide for the final disposition of the lands called Clergy Reserves, in the province of Upper Canada, and for the appropriation of the yearly income arising or to arise therefrom, for the maintenance of religion, and the advancement of Christian knowledge within the said province.''"A bill to provide for the Sale of the Clergy Reserves in the province of Upper Canada, and for the distribution of the proceeds thereof."12001199Mr. Gladstone
 begged to say a very few words in explanation. He utterly denied having spoken with anything like a feeling of exultation of the prevailing popular opinion in Canada upon this subject; on the contrary, he had upon a former occasion expressed his regret that principles which he considered more sound did not prevail in the colony. The only other point to which he would refer was the proposition which had been made by the Primate of England on this subject. He was quite ready, if it were wished, to state at once what that proposition was; he had it not, however, in writing, but he could pledge himself to its substantial accuracy. The proposition, as he understood it, was, that with respect to one fourth of the Clergy Reserves, which had been already sold and partly invested in this country, it should be considered to belong to the Church of England; and that of the remaining three-fourths, one half should also belong to the Church of England, and the other half to be appropriated to such parties as the Government might fix. There was this further proposition, that the whole belonging to the Church of England should be at the disposal of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts; that it should be for the society to decide whether the whole or any part should be sold or kept in land, and the income only to be disposed of. Such was the proposition made on the part of the Church. He did say, that with the views of the most rev. Prelate, such a proposition showed a spirit of conciliation; but it appeared to him, that one of two courses should be taken—either to legislate in this country in such a manner as to produce contentment in Canada, or, if that were inconsistent with our principles, then to give to the Legislature of Canada an absolute right to legislate on the subject.Lord J. Russell
 thought, that the error of the clause was, that it applied one sweeping provision to many cases, whose circumstances were different. As the discussion had come on somewhat unexpectedly, he suggested, that the clause should be postponed.Mr. S. Herbert
 complained, that from the existing peculiar situation of the Chapter of Exeter, the bill would have the effect of taking from it a much larger portion of its income, than from any other foundation. He proposed, therefore, the insertion of the name of this chapter into the clause.Lord Eliot
1204 thought, that although there were some reasons for taking this step, they were not so strong, as to
1204Lord John Russell
11711170 said, that he should now have taken the ordinary course of moving the order of the day, had not the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, stated on the evening of Thursday last, that he should move the consideration of the Irish Registration Bill on this day, in preference to any measure or any bill the consideration of which might be moved by a Member of the Government. He thought that that statement rendered it necessary for him to trouble the House with a few words in explanation of the reasons which had induced him to take the usual course on the present occasion. He believed that the course which the noble Lord proposed to take was entirely unusual. For his own part, he considered, that it was a useful mode of transacting public business, that on certain days of the week, the measures of Government, on the proposition of some Member of Government, generally of the Member who occupied the station which he had then the honour to occupy, should be taken into consideration previously to any other; and he knew from experience that that mode was generally acquiesced in by all parties in the House. He believed that it had been the usual course, and he was certain that it was the most convenient, because those measures which were then brought forward by the Government were measures which did not belong to this or that Administration in office, but were measures which were necessary to promote the business of the country, and which any Minister intrusted with the confidence of the Crown would be compelled to bring forward and carry through to a conclusion. The noble Lord, however, now thought proper to propose a different course. He had declared his intention of setting aside the usual prac-
11711170Lord John Russell
 said, that he had to state to the House, that her Majesty had signified her gracious intention of founding two new professorships at Oxford University, the one for ecclesiastical history, and the other for Biblical criticism. It was his intention, in committee on the bill, to propose to endow them with two canonries of Christ Church.Lord John Russell
 proposed the insertion of the words "subject to the provisions hereinafter contained," after the words, "And be it further enacted," at the commencement of the clause.Lord Teignmouth
 agreed in the sentiments expressed by the right hon. Baronet, and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He only desired to hear the same sentiments expressed with regard to the Corn-laws.Mr. Wallace
 agreed that the subject referred to by the right hon. Baronet, was of the greatest importance, and deserving of every attention; but probably it had not come under the right hon. Baronet's observation, that he had, the year before last, brought in clauses in the Glass Duties Bill for the purpose of giving facilities for trying experiments in optical improvements, which, he had every reason to believe, was that to which the right hon. Baronet referred. The Excise had carried these clauses into execution for the purpose of meeting the views of parties interested in the matter; and he had heard of no complaint since the passing of the bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1205 said, he did not know what was the object of this bill, but he had to state, that there was a very general impression amongst scientific persons that the excise regulations with respect to glass, prevented an improvement in the manufacture of that article which other countries were able to make. He was told, that every time that glass was remelted, it was subject to a duty. This prevented experiments being made for scientific purposes, and from their competing with France, Switzerland, and other countries. The right hon. Gentleman, he was sure, would concur, that this was a matter of very great importance. This country, which depended so much upon its navigation, ought to be able to supply itself with articles of glass of British manufacture, and not to seek for glass made in foreign countries. He knew, that they ought not to permit that improvements in. science should give an opportunity for fraud being practised, but he was sure, that through the aid of a commission (not attended with expense), but composed of two scientific persons, and having the aid of two Excise officers, it would be possible to devise a means by which the Excise regulations might be so modified as to permit
1205Sir R. Peel
Wakley said, that nothing but overbearing necessity should compel them to adopt such a proposal as this. He was convinced that an enactment providing that no person should inoculate would be ineffectual for the purposes sought by the hon. Member for Finsbury. It was an interference with every man's management of his health, in which they could not be justified. The small-pox was, no doubt, a fearful disease; but were there not many other diseases equally fearful? How many thousands died annually of the immoderate use of gin, and other spirituous liquors? Why did they not make the use of those liquors penal? No; but when the great medical authority, Mr. Wakley, came down and said, such and such management was injurious to health, they at once agreed to put it down by the strong arm of the law. Nothing but education could put an end to the prejudices of the people on this subject. If they were to pass this bill, Dr. Morrison would come before the House. [Mr. WakleySir G. Strickland
 thought this amendment was particularly required for the poorer classes in Ireland. He had known 100 individuals to die of small-pox in the course of two months in one district in which inoculation was practised, and four children in one family, who were inoculated by their mother, to be carried to a premature grave in the course of a few days.Mr. M. O'Connell
 begged to express his clear opinion, that inoculation ought immediately to be abolished. He had no doubt, that to inoculate a child was to endanger the public health, and to endanger the public health was a misdemeanour punishable by law. Inoculation was regarded as indispensable before vaccination was discovered, and was permitted as an avoidance of the greater evil; but now by the blessing of God a substitute had been found, and all excuse for inoculation was at an end. He saw no reason, therefore, why it should not be abolished, when it had been abolished in other countries, and no inconvenience had resulted from it. All classes felt an interest in this subject, and when it was seen that the House of Commons had almost unanimously agreed that inoculation ought to be abolished, he trusted that the measure would meet with the general concurrence of the public.The Attorney General
 objected to the second reading, on the ground, that new matter had been introduced.Sir B. Hall
 also opposed the bill, as many of its enactments were objectionable.M. Darby
 did not approve of all the details of the bill, but as the principle was good, he hoped the House would allow it to be read a second time.The Attorney General
 said, that if the bill were allowed to pass through this stage, he would remove the 4th and 5th, which appeared to be the objectionable clauses in committee.Mr. P. Scrope
 having considered the evidence of medical men on this subject, thought it was now high time to put an end to the practice of inoculation, and should therefore support the amendment.Mr. C. Berkeley
l.,l seconded the amendment. He thought that the practice of inoculation ought to be put an end to altogether. There was one subject in connexion with the present which the hon. Member for Finsbury had not touched upon, but which he was anxious to bring under the consideration of the House, although he might be a little disorderly in doing so. Dr. Jenner, the author of vaccination, only received for the discovery two grants, one of 10,000l.,lMr. C. Berkeley
1248 said, that the provisions of both these bills were intended to extend to Ireland, notwithstanding which the arguments of the hon. Member for Finsbury applied to England only. The hon. Member had placed a great part of the recommendations of his own bill on the indisposition which he attributed to the poor of England to rely on the discretion of the Poor-law guardians, and the Poor-law commissioners, and the prejudices which they entertained against the last-named individuals. Now, this objection did not apply at all to Ireland, because the system was yet unknown to the poor of Ireland, and public opinion on its merits among the lower classes was at all events suspended. The two measures before the
1248Mr. Lucas
 thought the committee ought not to come to too hasty a decision on the subject, as it would be unjust to create a penalty which could not be avoided, as he believed there was not the means of vaccinating the poor in many parts of the country.Mr. Lucas
1259 feared, that though it was desirable that vaccination should be brought into general use, they should respect to a certain extent the prejudices of
1259Mr. F. French
 believed there was now no doubt that inoculation was prejudicial. Long experience had proved, that vaccination was completely effectual for preventing the small-pox, and now, therefore, vas the time to stop this disorder by adopting this amendment. Wherever they went, they witnessed proofs of the ravages it had committed. They could not walk through any alley in the town, without seeing nine-tenths of the people marked with the small-pox. If the mischiefs of inoculation were confined to the parties inoculated, we might not, perhaps, be justified in interfering, but when those inoculated exposed others to taking the disease, he thought the Legislature had a right to interfere, and prevent the practice.Mr. Darby
1249 remarked, that the question was, whether they would absolutely prohibit inoculation, or whether they would only restrain it; and, therefore he would only say, that he was decidedly adverse to prohibiting by law any persons innoculating their children. He would state one case, which was within his own knowledge, which would show how great might be the hardship which would result from such legislation. A servant in a family, where there were several children, was attacked with small-pox, of the most virulent kind, and the medical gentleman who attended the family, recommended, that all the children should be immediately inoculated with some better kind of small-pox, urging as his reason, that if the vaccination which they had undergone proved efficient, the inoculation could do no harm; but, if it proved inefficient, they would have the better kind of disorder, instead of the worse. That was the opinion of a most eminent medical practitioner, and he thought that it would have been extremely hard upon that gen-
1249Mr. Goulburn
1247 said, that the real object of legislation on this subject, was, how they could best prevent inoculation. He thought that public opinion had gone quite far enough to enable the House to put a stop to it altogether. The question with which they had now to deal, was this—whether they would leave vaccination to
1247Mr. Warburton
 was of opinion that gratuitous vaccination was not likely to be either very good or generally practised. He should like, that the words, "inhabitants of the parish and of the union" should be inserted.Mr. Warburton
 considered the clause necessary, in order to make the contracts practically effective.Mr. Warburton
 approved of the amendment proposed by his hon. Friend. The number of deaths from small-pox was not the only evil, but the injury done to the persons of those who survived was also a serious consideration. Nobody could doubt that it was expedient to put an end to the dissemination of small-pox. Their duty was to put an end to inoculation, and the clause as it stood would not effect that object, as it would still enable professional men to continue the prejudices in favour of inoculation, in order that they might profit by them.Mr. Warburton
 said, it had been at all times doubtful whether inoculation was useful; that it was inferior to vaccination was now universally admitted among those who knew anything of the subject. It had been said, that vaccination was not a complete preventive against the small-pox; but if they were to compare the number of cases in which small-pox broke out after vaccination, with those in which it broke out after inoculation, and also the number of deaths occurring after one and the other, they would find, that, as a preventive to taking the small-pox, vaccination was fully equal to inoculation, and far superior to it as regarded the number of deaths. He would venture to say, that there was not one Member of the House who would suffer his own child to be inoculated. He would, therefore, support the amendment.Mr. Nicholl
 said, that, to do away with any inconvenience that might arise on this account he would propose the postponement of the operation of the clause till the 1st of January nextMr. P. Scrope
 said, it was well known, that typhus fever carried off the greatest number of children, and that the smallpox took off the next greatest number. It was now an indictable offence, to expose a child with small-pox on it. This was a shield to those only who lived in open airy situations, and not to those who lived in crowded places, where a great number of children were necessarily brought together. They would be, therefore, only extending the protective principle of the law to the latter, by making it penal to inoculate.Mr. Slaney
 said, his principal objection to making it penal to inoculate, arose from his not being impressed with the conviction that the medical profession were against the practice, as he had known instances, over and over again, of medical men inoculating.Mr. Hodges
 said, that the deaths from small-pox since inoculation had been introduced instead of vaccination, had, according to Mr. Marshall's tables, increased in London alone from 160 to 3,271 in one year.Mr. Wakley
1257 said, that wishing to raise the question, whether inoculation should not be wholly abolished, he should divide the House upon an amendment which he was about to propose on this clause. Who were the persons that were unprepared for this? Were they informed as to the present practice in this country? Were they aware of what had happened in England before the discovery of vaccination? or were they aware of the practice of foreign countries? A physician of eminence, some time ago, had expressed an opinion, that smallpox, in its most virulent state, was identical with the plague. If any one were to set up to inoculate for the plague, would that be allowed? At present in Wurtemberg, and other parts of the Continent, and even in one of our own colonies, inoculation was prohibited. Now, if they were to pass this clause, that was to say, if they prohibited unqualified persons only from inoculating, the public would conclude that the House had given a legislative sanction to inoculation. Was it not awful that 17,000 persons died annually of this frightful malady? Upwards of 1,000 died of it last year in London alone. Then the evidence of the protective power
1257Mr. Wakley
 thought the clause highly objectionable. The bill required the guardians to enter into contracts with the medical officers and practitioners, for the purpose of carrying it into effect; yet the commissioners sitting in London, who necessarily knew nothing of any locality but from report, and oftentimes malicious report, were to have the power of setting aside all their arrangements, without hearing the evidence of the parties. Such a provision would be most offensive, both to the guardians and the medical officers, and lie should certainly divide the committee against it.Mr. Wakley
 objected to such postponement. He had consulted the officer of the vaccine institution, and had ascertained that there would be no lack o vaccine matter for inoculating the whole of Europe if necessary.Mr. Wakley
 said, that the existing law empowered Poor-law guardians to do that which was proposed by this clause, and therefore it was unnecessary. It was the practice of Poor-law guardians already to contract for the vaccination of the poor. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, whether he would not pauperise persons by his bill, and thus under the Reform Act render them liable to be disfranchised?Mr. Wakley
1246 said, that no one could be ignorant that the working classes of this country entertained great prejudices against vaccination. It therefore behoved the House to look carefully to the means by which it was proposed to remove those prejudices. The right hon. Baronet proposed to make use of the officers appointed under the Poor Law Amendment Act to carry his bill into effect. Now, the poor also entertained great prejudices, no matter whether right or wrong, against the Poor Law Commissioners. Nothing could be more ill-judged than to make use of a machinery to which they were so hostile. If children were to be operated on by the officers of the Poor-law unions, he had no hesitation in saying that the poor would be inclined to believe the operation was designed not to protect, but to destroy their offspring. He believed that that feeling would exist, but of this he was sure, that without compulsion they would not place their children in the hands of those officers. Under the bill which he (Mr. Wakley) proposed, a poor man having a child to be vaccinated would be enabled to select his own medical attendant. In his opinion that would be a great inducement to the poor to have recourse to vaccination. It was worthy of notice that not a single petition had been presented in favour of the right hon. Gentleman's bill, while numbers of petitions for the passing of his measure had been presented, and he believed he might say that the medical profession felt great confidence in the efficacy of the plan. During the last two years the mortality in England alone from small-pox had been 12,000 annually; in England, Scotland, and Ireland, it had been 17,000. Why not, then, under those circumstances, put a stop to inoculation altogether? Why allow this frightful mortality to continue, when the efficiency of the vaccine lymph as a remedy was universally admitted by medical men? In Portugal inoculation was prohibited by law, and not a single person was now known to die of super-induced small-pox. In France, while the epidemy prevailed, inoculation was prohibited; and in the island of Jamaica it was also prohibited. Would the people of (his country be so enamoured of an erroneous method as to wish to maintain it at the expense of the lives of 17,000 of their relations and countrymen annually? He believed that not a single voice would
1246Mr. Wakley
1253pro formâ said, that, the bill of the right hon. Baronet was a measure which would compel medical officers to vaccinate without charge. Its provisions had a tendency to inflict upon the whole medical profession a gross insult, and he did hope that the right hon. Baronet would consent to let the bill go through a committee 1253pro formâMr. Wakley
 then proposed to add after the words "contract with the medical officers appointed by the board of guardians," the words "or with any legal qualified medical practitioner or practitioners."Mr. Wakley
 opposed the clause, as it would have the effect of introducing the power of the Poor-law commissioners into districts where they were at present unknown, and where the inhabitants hoped never to have anything to do with them. Besides, it was an insult to the medical profession to place medical practitioners under the control of commissioners, none of whom were medical men.Mr. Wakley
 could not assent to the statement, that the Poor-law commissioners always consulted the first medical practitioners; besides, he objected to the authority of these medical advisers, who were not known, and were subject to no responsibility.Mr. Wakley
 would move a proviso, to be inserted at the end of the clause, that it should not extend to any parish having any local act for the relief of the poor, and not forming part of any union.Sir B. Hall
 inquired if this clause was intended to apply to guardians under local acts? He objected to it.Sir B. Hall
 did not think that the plan of the hon. Member for Finsbury would lead to a canvass amongst low practitioners, because people would naturally be anxious to get the best medical assistance that could be had.Mr. Ward
, in moving the Order of the Day, that the House resolve itself into a committee on the Vaccination Bill, observed, that he thought that it would tend much to shorten the discussion on this important subject if the hon. Member for Finsbury would move, as an amendment upon his motion, that the Order of the Day be read for the hon. Member's bill, the Small-pox Prevention Bill, to be committed first. One of the main differences between the two bills was, that the hon. Member for Finsbury prohibited inoculation for the small-pox altogether, whereas his bill permitted it, placing it, however, under such regulations and restraints as amounted very nearly, but not entirely, to a prohibition. In committee he should be prepared to entertain the first clause in the hon. Member for Finsbury's bill as an amendment on his own 11th and 12th clauses. Another difference between the two bills was, that the hon. Member for Finsbury treated the machinery of the Poor-law which he introduced into his bill as merely ministerial, because he mistrusted the Poor-law system; whereas he intended to give practical operation to his measure through the different boards of guardians, and to give the central superintendence of it to the Poor-law commissioners, confiding in them because he found them trusted by the Legislature on matters of much greater importance. The substantial difference between the two bills was in the different use they made of the Poor-law commissioners. The bill which he advocated had been assented to by the other House of Parliament, and would come into operation under the superintendence of a commission which would exercise the most stringent control over it. No such precaution was taken in the case of the measure of the hon. Gentleman opposite. He hoped the House would see that his bill was the safer and less objectionable, and therefore give it a second reading.Sir J. Graham
 was satisfied that the commissioners would act under good advice, and if the clause was rejected, he should not think it right to take further charge of the bill.Sir J. Graham
 said, that although the Poor-law commissioners were not medical men, yet they were in the habit of consulting the highest medical authorities.Sir J. Graham
 said, he should certainly take the sense of the committee on the amendment.Sir J. Graham
 thought it would not be expedient to re-debate the principle of the bill. It was no measure of his, but when asked to take charge of it, he gave to the subject the best consideration in his power, and he was certainly prepared to stand by the bill in its present form. The 10th clause formed the main question at issue—namely, whether or not inoculation should be prohibited.Sir J. Graham
1250 said, the question whether inoculation for the small pox should be absolutely prohibited would still be left open, notwithstanding the House should agree to go into committee upon this bill; for it would be quite competent for any hon. Gentleman on the 10th clause to move the insertion of the 1st clause of the bill of the hon. Member for Finsbury. No single individual perhaps had ever conferred so much benefit upon the human
1250Sir J. Graham
Wakley1252 said, the power which the Poor-law guardians already possessed to make contracts for vaccination was only permissive, and it was left to the discretion of the various boards to say whether they should include vaccination in their contract with their medical officers or not?
Wakley1252Sir J. Graham
 thought the proposition of the hon. Member was rather inconsistent with his remaks. If vaccination was a good, the wider it was diffused the better. The object of the bill was to extend it to all classes and persons in the country, without making inquiry as to whether they were rated inhabitants of the parish or not. At the same time the largest possible power should be given to the Central Board of Commissioners to issue general orders, which should be binding on all unions.Sir J. Graham
 said, before the committee divided, he would observe, that the proviso was at direct variance with a clause which had been already passed, making it imperative on all parishes to vaccinate.Sir J. Graham
 said, the object of the clause was, to give the commissioners the power of ascertaining that in each contract, remuneration to the medical officers was proportioned to the number of persons vaccinated, and that, from time to time, regular returns were made to the board.Sir J. Graham
1260 conceived all the provisions of the bill to be insignificant when compared with the subject under discussion. He agreed with the hon. Member for Bridport, that the hon. Member for Finsbury, when he stated only the mortality arising from small-pox, he understated his case, for that maligant disease blighted the early promise of beauty in the cradle, occasioned many chronic diseases, and frequently led to the loss of life. The real question, however, for the House to consider was, whether the prejudice in favour of inoculation was well grounded. It was in evidence, that on the continent, where inoculation was prohibited and vaccination enjoined, the small-pox was prevented. He thought the time had arrived for a step to be taken in advance by the Legislature—not to make vaccination imperative, but to prohibit inoculation. It was necessary that a certain degree of sympathetic fever should be produced before vaccination could be relied on, and it was therefore necessary that various minute points should be watched, without
1260Sir J. Graham
 said, there was but one common object in view by hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House—namely, to prevent the increase of inoculation, and to propagate vaccination. The feelings of both these parties interested in this matter, those who communicated the prophylactic remedy, and those who received it, should be consulted; but he thought the feelings of the latter would not be best consulted by handing them over to the Poor-law guardians. Not only was the medical opinion of this country, but of the whole world, in favour of the prophylactic virtues of vaccination; therefore it was quite time to proceed to the absolute prohibition of inoculation.Viscount Sandon
 said, that the question was one of much importance. The rating of rural districts on account of riots taking place in distant towns was most unjust, and he wished to know whether her Majesty's Government had any intention of remedying the existing law in this respect.Sir E. Wilmot
1269 admitted, that the case to which the hon. Baronet referred was one of great hardship, but yet it was not peculiar to the part of the country with which the hon. Baronet was connected. The county had to make good the damage in the case of the riots at Nottingham, and that was no greater hardship than had been suffered in Warwickshire. He was
1269Lord J. Russell
 concurred with his lion. Friend as to the injustice of the practice. He was the owner of land in Warwickshire, thirty miles from Birmingham; it was a rural district, having little connexion with, and no influence over the regulation of, the town; yet they were called upon for large contributions to make good injuries done during riots in Birmingham. By the law, certainly the vicinage was held responsible for the public peace; but owing to the great changes which had taken place in various parts of the country, the principle now was one fraught with the utmost injustice. It was impossible for farmers residing at a distance of thirty or forty miles to prevent riots in a great manufacturing town.Sir R. Peel
1270l.l., thought the bill was such as the House ought not to agree to, and that it was at variance with the true principles of the British constitution. His wish was, that the whole subject of rural police should be re-considered. No one could deny that sonic alteration was necessary; but the question was whether that which was now proposed by the Government was the best, or whether some better and less expensive system could not be adopted. He would just mention, that in his opinion a separate and distinct provision was really necessary to regulate the police of canals and railways. He thought that the evidence collected by the commissioners was not of such a description as to justify the Government in bringing forward the measure of last Session or the present bill. The question was, whether the House was prepared to substitute for the existing constabulary force an organized body of an essentially military character, and one which would be solely and exclusively under the control of the Government. Another important consideration was the expense of the new system. In the county of Glocester, which had adopted the provisions of the act, the charge in the first year amounted to 17,2531270l.l.,Sir E. Knatchbull
 believed that the expense of adopting the rural constabulary system would not be found so great as had been apprehended, nor ought the expenditure in the counties which had adopted the system to deter other counties. The measure was especially calculated to protect the poor; for no class in the country suffered more from petty depredators than did cottagers during their absence from their homes in the hours of labour. It would be no small additional advantage if by this means they could get rid of poaching, which was always the first stage in rural crime. Twopence in the pound would probably be the whole amount of the rate required for the county of Kent—an amount which a farmer would almost save in the article of well-ropes stolen under the present system in the course of the year. Another great advantage consisted in the uniformity of practice secured within each county by the appointment of a chief constable. For these reasons he cordially supported the measure.Mr. Rice
dd said, that 2ddMr. Benett
1271 said, that in a question of this kind, the House ought not to look to the party who were the Government of the day, and ought to leave such a measure as this in their hands. He should be glad, not only to see the bill made compulsory, but that the Government should take upon itself the whole administration of the
1271Mr. G. Knight
 said, if this was an act introduced for the first time to alter the law with respect to the constabulary force, he should vote for its further consideration; but when there was an act in force, and this bill was merely to remedy its defects, he could not support the amendment. He thought the bill before the House very necessarily and properly introduced.Mr. Bruges
127512741273l.,l1272 said, his vote would be given in support of the amendment of the right hon. Baronet, as a proposal calculated to afford the opportunity for that maturer deliberation and discussion, which had not certainly been given to the subject on its first introduction during the last Session, but which, on account of its importance, it eminently deserved. The measure of which this bill formed a part had been supported from either side of the House without reference to party, he thought an appeal might fairly be made to both parties for caution and hesitation with regard to it, upon the respective principles of either. The plea in its favour was urged upon the ground of increase of crime, together with a decay of public spirit among the existing authorities, rendering them unfit and inadequate for its prevention and punishment. This might be true, it might be true that the progress of society was attended with corruption of manners, that there was always a tendency in a free constitution to degenerate from its liberty, and that in proportion as the spring of government became weakened and relaxed, it became necessary from time to time that it should be renewed and contracted; but if this were so, there were those in the House whom he might ask, how they reconciled such a supposition with the characteristic views they entertained—the administrative despotism now proposed with the political liberty of which they were the advocates, the apathy and indolence attributed to the class from which the ordinary constables were taken, to the influence upon general policy they would give to that class, or the notion of a general increase of crime and corruption with the extension of the franchise among the people at large. On the other hand the office pf conservatism was, he thought, not more
127512741273l.,l1272Mr. Halford
 said, there was great dissatisfaction on account of the increased county-rates, owing to the bill of last year; but that was because there was no responsible control over them. Though he objected to such a state of things as that, was he to allow the country to remain under the old system of want of protection? With a proper superintendence, he thought the expense of the police would not be half of what the expense was under the old system. But he thought the whole police of the country ought not to be put under the control of the Home Secretary of State. He should give his support to the bill.Mr. Hume
1276 said, it was most important to have such a police as should fairly protect parties and property; but it was important, on the other hand, to consider whether that object could not be effected by a more economical system than that which was adopted last year. Let the whole case be referred to a select committee, and if they could devise a more economical method, let the House adopt that rather than botch the system that was now in existence, and which left the House only the alternative of either having a very expensive or a very ineffective system of police. Where there was a very dense population it might be desirable to have a very stringent system of police. The bill of last year was not carried into very general execution, because it had not the concurrence of a very large portion of the rate-payers as it was constituted. The ex-
1276Lord G. Somerset
1277 considered the amendment of the right hon. Gentleman opposite tantamount to closing this measure against any further consideration. It appeared to him that the whole course of the right hon. Gentleman's speech tended rather to throw an impediment in the way of their perfecting the present law. When they considered the period at which that act was passed, he was not prepared to deny that it was very natural to find considerable defect in the details. It was passed at a period when it was absolutely necessary to have some system of organized police in the rural districts; it was passed at the close of the Session, and certainly that consideration was not given to it which might have been under different circumstances. But very early this Session he had proposed to carry a bill into committee for the purpose of improving that system of police, which, notwithstanding all the objections made to it, he was sure in the long run would be approved, and from which the country would derive considerable benefit. It appeared to him that the right hon. Gentleman opposite would be content with something of a middle nature. He would make the present bad system of local county constables a trifle better than it was, and leave it to sink in a very short time into its present inefficient state. It was for the purpose of making a decided improvement in the old system of constabulary that these bills were now brought forward, and he thought that this amended measure, which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to refer to a select committee, contained clauses which would enable the measure contemplated last Session to be carried into effect at considerably less expense than was originally anticipated in the act of last Session. He should not enter at that moment into the details of the measure. It ap-
1277Mr. F. Maule
 said, the evil of the bill of last year was, that it was not compulsory and he was of opinion that all the points urged against the measure, both by the magistrates and the rate-payers, could be best discussed by a select committee up-stairs. By that means prejudices which now existed might be removed.Mr. Darby
 said, that he should have been disposed at the commencement of the Session to consent to refer this bill and the measure which he had introduced, and which stood for a second reading to-night, to a select committee up-stairs; but at this advanced period of the Session he did not wish to risk the enactment of a measure necessary to amend the act of last year. He thought it duo to the counties which had adopted the measure of last year, that without delay they should have the benefit of the amendments which the present bill proposed to make. With these feelings he should not be able to support the amendment moved by the right hon. Baronet.Mr. Hodges
 expressed his regret at being compelled to differ from the views of his right hon. colleague on the present occasion. He thought the Government bill would be of use in putting down the evils arising from beer-shops, and he also was of opinion that the objections to the bill on the score of expense were groundless, inasmuch as the magistrates of each district could check them.Mr. Plumptre
l said, that this was the most fitting occasion that could occur for him to urge a suggestion he had to make. He found from the information already before the House that about 70,000lMr. G. Knight
 was not prepared to give the assent of the Crown to the proposition of the hon Member.Lord J, Russell
, alluding to the amendment, of which the hon. Member for Bath had given notice, said that the proportion of one policeman to every thousand of population had not been acted upon heretofore, and he was of opinion that it would be better, as the bill proposed to leave the matter as to the numbers of the police force in the discretion of the magistrates.Mr. F. Maule
 said; that though he admitted the magistrates were the proper persons to fix the number of constables, yet, that the proportion of one constable for every thousand of population would treble the amount of the county-rate; this, of course, would be greatly objected to by the rate-payers, and would be productive of evil.Mr. Darby
1280 remarked, that the country would never consent to the appointment of an unlimited number of police; they never would acquiesce in such an unlimited power as the bill proposed to give to a single individual. He was induced to move at the proper time to strike out all the
1280Mr. Hume
 said, that the bill in its present form only dealt with those counties which were willing to adopt its provisions. If a county chose to adopt the provision of the bill, there would in that case be a power vested in the chief constable, when once appointed, to make any additional number which might be deemed necessary. What he wished was, that means should be provided of applying the same principle to counties, which did not require such cumbrous establishments. He was, therefore, desirous of seeing a clause introduced enabling the rate-payers of any parish, who wished to have a single police constable for the preservation of the peace, to have the power of making such an appointment. Such a provision would be useful where no large police establishment was required, but where one or two constables were desirable. Though small, such appointments would be effectual in a country where so much deference was paid to the law and to the legal authorities.Sir R. Peel
1281 could not consent to any proposition for doing away altogether with a police force where it had once been established. No part of the country ought to be without the ground-work of such a force, however small the skeleton to which it might be reduced. The right hon. Baronet the member for Tamworth, had suggested, that a power should be vested in parishes of appointing one to two constables for the preservation of order, but then the question arose as to whom the persons thus appointed should be responsible? The great danger was, that they would soon become masters in their own right. Still, any suggestion coming from the right hon. Baronet was highly deserving of the utmost deference, and the hint would
1281Mr. F. Maule
 supported the amendment. He conceived that, as in some parishes the principal crimes were committed by gangs of depredators or thieves, the effect of this clause would merely be to drive those persons from one parish to another.Mr. Darby
 thought the bill would have the effect of driving such persons from one parish to another, as the parish to which they went would then be necessitated to establish a police force, and thus those persons would ultimately be got rid of. This country was undoubtedly out-growing the use of the old police. He would recommend persons to be sent down who were unconnected with the localities, and upon their becoming intimately acquainted with them, to have them removed elsewhere. If persons so appointed did not perform their duty, the parishioners would soon evince a disinclination to pay for their services. He thought it would be well that the application should he made in the first place to the Secretary of State.Sir R. Peel
 observed, that where a county was divided into districts, some being manufacturing and others rural districts, it would be quite unfair to expect that the manufacturing districts should pay an equal proportion of the expense, if they did not require an equal number of policemen.Mr. Slaney
 opposed the clause, and would divide the House against it.Mr. Hume
 thought the clause an exceedingly beneficial one. Under the present system he had frequently known constables to remain in service when they were unfitted for the discharge of their duties.Mr. Williams Wynn
 replied, that he should give his opinion upon this subject to the Canadian Government, and he thought, that that being done, the better course would be to leave the matter in the hands of the united Legislature.Lord J. Russell
1264, in rising to move the third reading of the Canada Government Bill, said that he had promised the last time that the bill was before the House, when the order for the third reading was agreed to by a great majority, to take into consideration certain amendments which had been proposed by different Members. The first of these was the proposal of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, to the effect that debts in future contracted by the provinces of Canada should not form a charge upon the consolidated revenue fund of the provinces before the civil list charge. It appeared to him, upon consideration, that it was desirable to make this alteration; and he accordingly proposed it. There was another suggestion of the right hon. Baronet's with respect to the representation. The right hon. Baronet suggested that certain commercial bodies should be created, in whom the representation should rest. He thought there would be so much difficulty in carrying this suggestion into effect in such a manner as that these bodies should not become too exclusive, that he was not able to adopt this suggestion. Another suggestion had been made by his right hon. Friend (Mr. E. Ellice), namely, that all the clauses regarding district councils should be omitted. He had endeavoured to limit the power of these bodies, as they certainly had not experience, and they were likely, as his right hon. Friend supposed, to propose persons in whom no great confidence was placed, but who, by means of their influence over a very ignorant portion of the population, might acquire a temporary ascendancy injurious to property, and mischievous as regarded the
1264Lord J. Russell
 believed, according to the last accounts, the suspension continued. The Governor-general, however, would not renew the bill for suspending the Act which would of course be restored. With regard to the individuals who had been imprisoned, he believed they had been discharged.Lord J. Russell
 begged to confirm the statement of the right hon. Gentleman.Mr. Warburton
habeas corpus was sorry to have heard the speech of the noble Lord, because much that was good in the bill was now, it appeared, to be taken out, and the people were to be altogether deprived of self-government and of the control of their own resources. The noble Lord would not carry, he was afraid, the opinions of the people of Canada with him. He knew how useless it was to offer any opposition to a proposition from the Government connected with the colonies whatever it might be; but he must enter his protest against the course pursued by the noble Lord, because it would leave the Canadas without those district and local courts to manage their affairs until the Assembly should have time to make some arrangement. He begged to enter his protest against the partial destruction of the little that was useful in the bill. He thought a general amnesty should be passed before the bill of the noble Lord was adopted by the House. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether the habeas corpusMr. Hume
 said, if he understood the noble Lord to intimate an intention of sending out the bill to Canada, accompanied by a recommendation to the effect that the councils which he referred to ought to be established, he (Mr. Hume) should not press his objection.Mr. Hume
 said, that he objected to the omission of clauses which went to give local municipal councils. He thought such an omission exceedingly unwise, and that it must be attended with bad consequences. The bill once passed, he wished to know what authorities would exist to administer local affairs? If the noble Lord really intended to omit these clauses, he must record his vote against the bill. He therefore hoped that the noble Lord would state what he intended to do.Mr. Hume
 said that an attack made twice ought not to be passed over. He was willing to make every allowance for newspapers falling into errors, but when a mis-statement was reiterated, he did think that was misconduct which the House ought not to pass over without some animadversion. That was his humble opinion, and he felt it his duty to express it.Sir C. Burrell
1265 did not approve of the omission of the clauses relating to district coun-
1265Sir C. Grey
1263Morning ChronicleMorning Chronicle, said, that as there was no immediate business before the House, perhaps he might be allowed to make a few observations upon a matter, which personally concerned himself. He was very unwilling to take such a course, but he thought he was justified in doing so under the circumstances of the case. He was the last person to notice any anonymous assertion, however unfounded, that might be directed against, him, but he thought the conduct of a Member of that House, in his capacity of Member, was a matter that could not be indifferent to the House at large. It was asserted yesterday in the1263Morning ChronicleMorning Chronicle,Sir J. Graham
1267"There is a natural anxiety felt for the result of the Union and Clergy Reserve bills; but there is otherwise no particular excitement in the country, and the community, generally, seem more desirous of repose than of further agitation, and I do not know that a more auspicious moment could be expected to present itself for carrying the details of the union into practical effect, if that measure be decided upon by the Imperial Legislature.""All strongly attached to the institutions and laws of Lower Canada, and would consider it as the greatest of misfortunes should the Imperial Parliament dismember the said district from the province of Lower Canada, in order to annex it to that of New Brunswick, the customs, manners, and laws of which essentially differ from those which prevail in the district of Gaspe.''1266"Transmitting, in order that it might be
1266 meant to vote for the passing of this bill. He approved of the amendment of the noble Lord, with respect to Civil List, but he was sorry that the noble Lord could not agree that the mercantile interest should be represented in the united assembly by a superintending body, a chamber of commerce, composed, quite irrespectively of differences in political and religious opinions, of commercial individuals. Such a body should have a duly adjusted weight in the assembly. It would be a decided improvement in the constitution of the assembly, because it would give a larger preponderance to those who were in favour of British interests. With regard to the district councils, he thought it would be advantageous to the public to establish, under certain regulations, local authorities, let them be called by what name they might, with well defined powers of taxation for local objects; but it would be proper to leave the constitution of those local authorities to the local legislature. It would be more literally following out the principle of self-government if these councils were not appointed by the Imperial Legislature. A great experiment was to be tried, and he thought it would be better to wait for a time rather than to establish the councils simultaneously with the Legislative Assembly. He entirely concurred in the policy of omitting those clauses from the bill which had been repudiated by the noble Lord. It was somewhat strange, however, that the House should be about to pass that bill, without having been put in possession of the whole of the correspondence concerning Canada. It was only since he had come down to the House that he had seen the last of the series of documents printed under that title. He had given it as close a perusal as he could in that short space of time, and he could not help thinking that some of the papers might have been communicated to the House at an earlier period. For instance, there was a despatch of the noble Lord, dated the 28th of May, acknowledging the receipt of one from Mr. P. Thomson of the 4th of April,
1267"There is a natural anxiety felt for the result of the Union and Clergy Reserve bills; but there is otherwise no particular excitement in the country, and the community, generally, seem more desirous of repose than of further agitation, and I do not know that a more auspicious moment could be expected to present itself for carrying the details of the union into practical effect, if that measure be decided upon by the Imperial Legislature.""All strongly attached to the institutions and laws of Lower Canada, and would consider it as the greatest of misfortunes should the Imperial Parliament dismember the said district from the province of Lower Canada, in order to annex it to that of New Brunswick, the customs, manners, and laws of which essentially differ from those which prevail in the district of Gaspe.''1266"Transmitting, in order that it might be
1266Sir R. Peel
1268 said, that having had much to do in the course of his professional career with colonial matters, he naturally felt a great interest in this question. No measure which had occupied the attention of the House for many years past could have been of such vital importance to this country and its dependencies: and if ever there was a great question with which party politics ought not to be mixed up, it was this one. Two important points were involved in this bill: one was its effect upon the internal economy of the colonies themselves, and the other its influence upon the interests of the empire at large. He thought that during the discussion of this question sufficient consideration had not been given to the extent of country with which they had to deal, and the consequent inconvenience and inefficiency of having a Government at a remote point, and of being left without local Governments equal to the wants of the inhabitants. It was impossible for a single legislature to attend to the civil necessities of so large a territory. He much feared that the passing of this bill would be a virtual declaration of the independence of the Canadas, and he believed that this was the last dictatorial act which the House could pass for those colonies. Daily experience proved that there was a large body of persons there who could not be depended on. Nova Scotia, which had always been considered a most loyal province, had petitioned for the removal of governor, and given other more unequivocal signs of discontent. A great desire was expressed in all parts of the colonies for what were called "responsible governments." Sir G. Arthur had described a large portion of the people in Upper Canada as being most disloyal, having the word "reform" on their lips, but "separation" cherished in their hearts. He should not dread separation were the colonies in a condition to maintain their own independence; but since they had not yet arrived to that maturity and strength, he must say that he looked forward with great dismay to that separation, which was urged on by a body of democrats there, before the people and the colony were in a state which could justify them in asserting their independence, and before they could indulge the slightest hope of deriving any advantage from such a proceeding. It had been said
1268Sir T. Cochrane
 then moved the Order of the Day for a Committee on the Registration of Voters (Ireland) Bill, No." 1.Lord Stanley
1307 said, that it would be necessary, in consequence of the late period of the Session at which they had arrived, to make some alteration in the dates with which he had proposed filling up the blanks in this clause. The duties which would be devolved upon the clerk of the peace by virtue of this Act would be very laborious, and required a very considerable time to execute. By the wording of the bill, as it had originally been framed, it would have been required of the clerk of the peace to complete those duties by the 25th of July. But looking at the period of the Session at which they
1307Lord Stanley
"That in making the register of voters for any county, city, town, or borough, the name of every voter who shall at the time when such register shall be made be on the register now in force, shall be placed and retained on such register, so long as his right to remain there would have continued under the present law, unless the said voter shall have lost his qualification since the registration, or unless he shall be personally disqualified, or shall have died, or unless his registration shall have been effected by fraudulent personation, until and from and after the completion of such register of voters."13141313"The assistant-barrister, or chairman, shall inspect and examine every deed, lease, or instrument so produced, and shall investigate the claim made there under or otherwise to be registered, and shall determine upon the validity or invalidity of such claim, and shall and may examine and enquire, as well by the oaths of the claimants as by any other evidence offered in support of, or in opposition to, such claim, whether such claimant is or is not to be registered as a voter for the county, city, town, or borough, to which his claim shall relate, and in case of any claim in respect of the freehold, leasehold, or household property, whether the same be of the value and nature respectively hereby prescribed and required, and shall also inquire, by any of the means aforesaid, as he shall think fit, into the truth of the several particulars required by the provisions of this act."1312"To the clerk of the peace for the county or town of. Take notice, that I object to the name of being retained on the list and register of voters for the county and town of (as the case may be)."1311"Christian name and surname in full; description or calling; townland, parish, and barony, where resident, if in a county—and if in a town, the street and parish; description of the property or premises; where situate, stating townland, parish, and barony, if in a county—and if in a town, the street and parish, and name of property, if any; in what right claiming; tenant in occupation; yearly
1311"That any person who shall be upon the register of voters for the time being for any county or town may object to any other person whose name may appear in the same register, or in the list of voters for such county or town, so to be made out by the clerk of the peace in the present and every subsequent year, as not having been entitled on the said twentieth day of July then next preceding to have his name retained on the register of voters then next to be made and completed; and every person so objecting (except in the case of non-payment of cesses, rates, or taxes hereinafter provided for, in which case such notice next hereinafter mentioned may or may not be given) shall, on or before the tenth day of August in the present and every succeeding year, give or cause to be given, according to the form schedule (C.) Number 1, to this act annexed, a notice in writing, signed by himself.""The clerk of the peace in each county shall, on or before the twentieth day of July in the present year, make out in the form given in schedule (A.) Number 1, to this Act annexed, or as near thereto as may be, a correct parochial alphabetical list of the names of all persons in each barony and half barony within each division of his county who shall then have been registered within the eight years next previous as persons entitled to vote in the election of a knight or knights of the shire."131013091308"Notwithstanding any law now in force in Ireland, no person whatsoever shall, on or after the first day of November in the present year, be entitled or permitted to vote at any election of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament for any county, city, town, or borough in Ireland (the University of Dublin only excepted), unless such person shall have been duly registered according to the provisions of this Act." said, he had an amendment to propose, which occurred previous to the date; namely, at the 7th line, after the word "that." He admitted that it was very early in the business of the Committee to attempt an amendment, but with his own views of the principles of this measure, and the time and circumstances under which it was introduced, and feeling the excitements which prevailed amongst the great bulk of the Irish on this subject, and the effects which he could not but apprehend would result from the enactment of this bill, he owned that he was not sorry to bring whatever appeared to him exceptionable in the details or the principles of the measure under the consideration of the Committee at as early a period as possible, in order to bring the main points concerned to a speedy issue. The very first clause, he might, indeed, say the first line, appeared to him to give the fairest possible opportunity for such a course, an opportunity which his sense of the effect and the character of the bill rendered it imperative on him to avail himself of. It seemed to him, that the first clause in its practical and virtual effect, he would not say in the intention of the noble Mover, exposed to disfranchisement all the existing constituencies of Ireland. The first clause enacted, that
"That in making the register of voters for any county, city, town, or borough, the name of every voter who shall at the time when such register shall be made be on the register now in force, shall be placed and retained on such register, so long as his right to remain there would have continued under the present law, unless the said voter shall have lost his qualification since the registration, or unless he shall be personally disqualified, or shall have died, or unless his registration shall have been effected by fraudulent personation, until and from and after the completion of such register of voters."13141313"The assistant-barrister, or chairman, shall inspect and examine every deed, lease, or instrument so produced, and shall investigate the claim made there under or otherwise to be registered, and shall determine upon the validity or invalidity of such claim, and shall and may examine and enquire, as well by the oaths of the claimants as by any other evidence offered in support of, or in opposition to, such claim, whether such claimant is or is not to be registered as a voter for the county, city, town, or borough, to which his claim shall relate, and in case of any claim in respect of the freehold, leasehold, or household property, whether the same be of the value and nature respectively hereby prescribed and required, and shall also inquire, by any of the means aforesaid, as he shall think fit, into the truth of the several particulars required by the provisions of this act."1312"To the clerk of the peace for the county or town of. Take notice, that I object to the name of being retained on the list and register of voters for the county and town of (as the case may be)."1311"Christian name and surname in full; description or calling; townland, parish, and barony, where resident, if in a county—and if in a town, the street and parish; description of the property or premises; where situate, stating townland, parish, and barony, if in a county—and if in a town, the street and parish, and name of property, if any; in what right claiming; tenant in occupation; yearly
1311"That any person who shall be upon the register of voters for the time being for any county or town may object to any other person whose name may appear in the same register, or in the list of voters for such county or town, so to be made out by the clerk of the peace in the present and every subsequent year, as not having been entitled on the said twentieth day of July then next preceding to have his name retained on the register of voters then next to be made and completed; and every person so objecting (except in the case of non-payment of cesses, rates, or taxes hereinafter provided for, in which case such notice next hereinafter mentioned may or may not be given) shall, on or before the tenth day of August in the present and every succeeding year, give or cause to be given, according to the form schedule (C.) Number 1, to this act annexed, a notice in writing, signed by himself.""The clerk of the peace in each county shall, on or before the twentieth day of July in the present year, make out in the form given in schedule (A.) Number 1, to this Act annexed, or as near thereto as may be, a correct parochial alphabetical list of the names of all persons in each barony and half barony within each division of his county who shall then have been registered within the eight years next previous as persons entitled to vote in the election of a knight or knights of the shire."131013091308"Notwithstanding any law now in force in Ireland, no person whatsoever shall, on or after the first day of November in the present year, be entitled or permitted to vote at any election of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament for any county, city, town, or borough in Ireland (the University of Dublin only excepted), unless such person shall have been duly registered according to the provisions of this Act."Viscount Morpeth
bonâ fide13251324lllllll13231322prima facieprima facie1321"And be it enacted, that the assistant barrister at every such sessions shall revise and go through the several lists of voters, claims, and objections in the alphabetical order of the parishes in each barony, half-barony, or portion of a barony in each county, and in the alphabetical order of the parishes in each town, commencing in each parish with the list of persons whose names are upon the register
prima facie1321Cheers.1320bona fide13191318"From and after the completion of the first revision of the register of voters for any county or borough under this act, no separate certificate on parchment heretofore granted shall be called for, or have any effect, to entitle the person named therein to poll before the deputy of the returning-officer in the manner now by law allowed. And so much of the said recited acts as relates to the granting of such certificate, and as enacts that such certificate shall be conclusive of the right of voting of the person named therein, shall after the com-
1318"And be it enacted that from and after the completion of the first revision of the register of voters for any county or borough under this act."13171316verbatim et literatimad nauseam1315 really had hoped, after the many discussions which had taken place upon the provisions of this bill, that the time had at last come when, by the consent of the Government themselves, and he might add, by the recorded consent of the House, repeatedly given, they were to enter upon the discussion of the bill, according to the ordinary and invariable practice of Parliament, and that he might now discuss, as he was most ready to discuss, and had always expressed himself ready, the various objections which might be raised against the several clauses of the bill by hon. Gentlemen opposite, or on his side of the House, as they should be brought under the notice of the committee, agreeably with Parliamentary usage. Without meaning to accuse the noble Lord of any want of good taste, he must say, that when the Government had pledged itself to allow the bill to proceed, at least without offering any further opposition to its going into committee, he did not anticipate, that upon the first clause, which, according to the noble Lord's statement, was harmless in itself. [Viscount Morpeth, no, no] Very well, then, a clause not harmless in itself—he did not expect, that upon the very first clause—a clause not harmless in itself, as the noble Lord now-stated, but which ten minutes before he described to be harmless in itself—a clause which was unconnected with the subsequent provisions of the bill, and one which, whether harmless, or not, the noble
bonâ fide13251324lllllll13231322prima facieprima facie1321"And be it enacted, that the assistant barrister at every such sessions shall revise and go through the several lists of voters, claims, and objections in the alphabetical order of the parishes in each barony, half-barony, or portion of a barony in each county, and in the alphabetical order of the parishes in each town, commencing in each parish with the list of persons whose names are upon the register
prima facie1321Cheers.1320bona fide13191318"From and after the completion of the first revision of the register of voters for any county or borough under this act, no separate certificate on parchment heretofore granted shall be called for, or have any effect, to entitle the person named therein to poll before the deputy of the returning-officer in the manner now by law allowed. And so much of the said recited acts as relates to the granting of such certificate, and as enacts that such certificate shall be conclusive of the right of voting of the person named therein, shall after the com-
1318"And be it enacted that from and after the completion of the first revision of the register of voters for any county or borough under this act."13171316verbatim et literatimad nauseam1315Lord Stanley
133513341333l133213311330bonâ fide1329"About a fortnight back, my attention was called to a report of a speech purporting to have been delivered by Lord Stanley in his place in the House of Commons, on the 18lh ult., relative to his bill on the Irish elective franchise. In a portion of that speech he is reported to have stated, that he received a letter from a Mr. Kernan, registry agent for the Conservatives of North Tipperary, wherein, amongst other things, it was alleged that 'a tenant of Mr. Faucett, over eighty years of age, held a farm, out of which he registered in 1832—that in 1834 he gave up the farm to Mr. Faucett from his inability to hold the same—that Mr. Faucett gave him an acre of land free to live on—that at the election of 1837, this old man of eighty years of age was dragged to the hustings at Clonmel, and there made to vote for Sheil and Cave, notwithstanding his being warned by his landlord not to do so, as he knew his title was extinct.' Further, he (Lord Stanley) is reported to have stated, from the same information, that 'another tenant of Mr. Faucett, named Roger Meara, registered in 1832—was murdered in 1837—was placed on the list of applicants for registry in January, 1840, and that the
bonâ fide1329132813271326: The argument of the noble Lord is at variance with the statement with which he commenced his speech. He began by stating, that the first clause in his bill would not operate as a disfran-
133513341333l133213311330bonâ fide1329"About a fortnight back, my attention was called to a report of a speech purporting to have been delivered by Lord Stanley in his place in the House of Commons, on the 18lh ult., relative to his bill on the Irish elective franchise. In a portion of that speech he is reported to have stated, that he received a letter from a Mr. Kernan, registry agent for the Conservatives of North Tipperary, wherein, amongst other things, it was alleged that 'a tenant of Mr. Faucett, over eighty years of age, held a farm, out of which he registered in 1832—that in 1834 he gave up the farm to Mr. Faucett from his inability to hold the same—that Mr. Faucett gave him an acre of land free to live on—that at the election of 1837, this old man of eighty years of age was dragged to the hustings at Clonmel, and there made to vote for Sheil and Cave, notwithstanding his being warned by his landlord not to do so, as he knew his title was extinct.' Further, he (Lord Stanley) is reported to have stated, from the same information, that 'another tenant of Mr. Faucett, named Roger Meara, registered in 1832—was murdered in 1837—was placed on the list of applicants for registry in January, 1840, and that the
bonâ fide1329132813271326Mr. Sheil
genius loci1336 said, those who voted against the present bill voted for the dismemberment of the empire. He was induced to make this remark from hearing the speech which had just been delivered. The House had heard the cry of equal justice and equal rights to Ireland, but he begged to call their attention to this circumstance. If an Englishman talked sedition in England he was prosecuted; but if sedition was talked on the other side of the channel was the individual punished? Was this equal justice r He asked English Gentlemen how they could give their support to a Government who punished in England what they allowed to pass with
genius loci1336Mr. D'Israeli
1337 said, that the hon. Gentleman had given point to what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Tipperary, in what he had said, for it was the embodiment of the spirit of faction. The measure before the House was not conceived in a fair and honest
1337Dr. Stock
1340llllll13391338 asked whether any clause of a bill had ever been discussed before in this manner? He asked whether, amidst all the warm and impassioned declamation of the lion, and learned Member for Tipperary, the hon. Member had encountered one of the arguments of the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, or had used a single argument as to the effect of the clause under discussion? The hon. and learned Member had only read the marginal note, and from that note had called the clause a disfranchising clause. Now, the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, had shown that the clause was precisely the same as the clauses in the Government bills of
1340llllll13391338Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 said, that the learned Sergeant had made a grave charge against the constituency which he had the honour to represent. The hon. Member had said, that the names on the registry for the county of Cork, amounted to 8,000, while only 4,000 of these were entitled to vote. But what was the fact? The names on the register were only 4,338; and this in a county that contained 800,000 inhabitants. During the late registries, the Conservative Association in that county had brought forward two or three paid valuators, who went round the district for the express purpose of diminishing the constituency by undervaluing the property of the voters. These men came forward and succeeded in swearing down a great number of the constituency. The present bill would still further diminish the number of voters. It was aimed at the rights and interests of the people of Ireland, and he felt that he should not be doing his duty if he did not oppose it. If they gave Ireland all the defects of the English bill, they ought not to withhold from her its benefits. His constituency were looking with the greatest anxiety to the decision of the House, and were determined never to submit to such a measure as the present.Mr. E. B. Roche
 said, that the hon. Member for the county of Wicklow, had made a most inaccurate statement to the House, without giving him notice, and calculated to throw discredit on some facts that he (Lord Powerscourt) had stated. He had since received some information regarding the cases which he had mentioned. The hon. Member had said, that there were no fictitious votes in the county of Wicklow. Now he had obtained the knowledge of two most gross cases of personation. He did not wish to detain the committee, but desired only to call the attention of hon. Members to a case of fictitious votes, which was of no inconsiderable importance in legislating upon a subject such as that involved in the measure under consideration. Upwards of forty-six persons, who had obtained certificates of their right to vote for the county of Wicklow in 1832, had, within the last year, claimed to be reregistered for the same premises, and that they had been rejected; thus showing how imperfectly the registration of 1832 was effected.Lord Powerscourt
1342 complained that the noble Lord had not given notice of
1342Mr. James Grattan
1346primâ facielllprimâ facielprimâ facieprimâ facie1345lls.bonâ fide1344s.llex post facto law1343 said, that there were some points on which it was his duty to offer a few observations before the committee should proceed to a division. To much of what had fallen from his learned Friend, he would give no answer, as it appeared to him to be irrelevant to the subject then before the House. They were not debating whether certificates were to be abolished; they were not discussing whether unqualified persons who were now on the registers were to be removed; but the question raised by the amendment of his noble Friend was, whether the House, when called upon, should affirm the great principle to be applied to this measure, and to every measure of a similar character. It had been said, that his noble Friend was objecting to the clause because of its phraseology; and it was argued that similar clauses had been passed in other bills, and that, in any measure of this kind, it was necessary to introduce such a clause. The question, however, was not whether the House had given its concurrence to like clauses—not whether the phraseology was objectionable—not simply whether the one clause should stand—but whether in this clause, coupled as it was with the other provisions of this bill, they should express a favourable opinion of the system of re-investigation that was sought to be established, or whether it would proceed on the grounds of the amendment that had been proposed. The Government had said, that in forming a register they ought to affirm the principles on which it should be founded, and they called upon the House to say aye or no, whether the principles which they suggested were just? What had been done with the very registries of freeholds which were created under the act of 1829, when the Reform Act was passed? There was a clause in the act of 1832 which said, that those who
1346primâ facielllprimâ facielprimâ facieprimâ facie1345lls.bonâ fide1344s.llex post facto law1343Mr. D. R. Pigot
1349l1348primâ facieprimâ facieprimâ facie1347 observed, that he had not yet expressed any opinion upon this question, and he would, therefore, preface his observations by saying, that he supported this bill in the full belief that no injury would be inflicted upon Ireland by its operation, and he had formed that belief upon as careful a consideration of its details as it was possible to give to the subject. He was content to be bound by this test—that he would offer nothing to Ireland which, similar circumstances existing, he was not prepared to accept for England. The hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had for the first time admitted, what it was impossible to deny, that the clause upon which the House was called upon to divide, was a clause which in some way or other must find its way into every bill of this nature. In the very bill brought in by the hon. and learned Gentleman himself, there was a clause precisely the same in effect as the clause of his noble Friend. It was impossible, therefore, for him to persuade the Committee that his noble Friend's clause was an unusual clause, or that it would disfranchise any person who ought not to be
1349l1348primâ facieprimâ facieprimâ facie1347Sir E. Sugden
Invictæ gentes æterna in fœdera mittant.""Paribus se legibus ambæ135713561355l1354l1353135213511350 said, he entertained so great a respect for the eminent talents and legal acuteness of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that it was with great diffidence he ventured to oppose his opinion to that of the right hon. and learned Gentleman on the construction of a single clause. But when the right hon. and learned Gentleman had emphatically, distinctly, and repeatedly assured the Committee that the question on which they were to divide was, whether a person now on the register was to remain on it all his life, he (Mr. Macaulay) could not but say that it appeared to him that the words of his noble Friend's amendment by no means bore out such a statement. His reading of the words was, that the voter should be continued on the register so long as his right of voting and the registry were to remain in force, which under the present law were not for the term of his life, but for the period of eight years. If he was correct in conceiving that the right hon. and learned Gentleman had thus from reading it but cursorily
Invictæ gentes æterna in fœdera mittant.""Paribus se legibus ambæ135713561355l1354l1353135213511350Mr. Macauley
 said, that after the decision to which the House had come, he should offer no further opposition to the amendment of the remainder of the clauses. He presumed that, after the other side of the House had amended the clause as the noble Lord proposed, there would then be no objection to their reporting progress and asking leave to sit again.Lord Stanley
 assented, and the necessary verbal alterations were agreed to accordingly.Viscount Morpeth
 then said, that it only remained for him to say, that much as he regretted the decision at which the House had arrived, it should not have the effect of inducing him to withdraw from the further prosecution of the object which he had in view. Bowing to the decision of the House, he should now endeavour to make the measure as perfect as he possibly could, and to carry it through, the Committee in such a form as to secure its favourable reception on bringing up the report. As to the period at which they were to proceed with these bills, the House would recollect that they had determined to proceed with the two registration bills on Monday. He concluded that they would adhere to their former decision of giving to the Irish Registration Bill then before them precedence over the English bill, and over the other measure which had been introduced upon the same subject. He distinctly understood that the question of Irish Registration was to take precedence, and under that impression he should fix Monday for proceeding with it.Lord Stanley
1363 said, he should state at once the course which the House he
1363Lord J. Russell
 said, that he never had proposed to proceed with this bill in preference to the Government orders. The noble Lord had proposed that the third reading of two bills should be taken on Monday. He did not mean to interfere with that proposition. On the subject of Irish Registration there were two rival bills before the House. It would be idle to proceed with them concurrently, setting a clause in one against a clause in the other. It would tend much more to the despatch of the public business if they took one or other of the proposed measures as the basis of their proceedings. Whichever course they thought proper to adopt, he would bow to their decision.Lord Stanley
1364John Russell: wished to know from the noble Lord opposite whether he intended to take the sense of the House upon that point. [Lord 1364John Russell:Sir R. Peel
1365 said, that before the House divided, he could not help appealing to his noble Friend to save them from the extreme inconvenience of the course he now proposed. If they were to have a division upon the order of their proceedings, he thought it would conduce to the convenience of the House, as well as to the regularity of their proceedings generally, if that division were to take place not then, but on Monday, the day for which the noble Lord who had the conduct of this bill proposed to fix it, upon the understanding that he would not allow it to interfere with the Government orders, which his noble Friend intended proceeding with. He did not think it at all desirable or expedient, after all that had passed, to go to a division upon the mere form of fixing the bill for Monday, or upon the question whether the bill of the Solicitor-general or that of the noble Lord opposite should be first proceeded with. Divisions of this kind could not possibly lead to any useful result. They only created a further waste of time, and would besides increase the excitement and acrimony which this subject had already given rise to. The far more regular course would be—having proceeded thus far with an Irish Registration bill—to continue the discussion of that bill before they proceeded with any other on the same subject. He had that night voted in favour of his noble Friend's amendment; but he had not done so, he confessed, without some reluctance. Although he did Concur
1365Viscount Howick
 said, it appeared to him that if this question were to be decided, it might as well be decided then as at any other time. As his noble Friend, however, objected to that course, he would not press it, as it was just the same to him to take the division on Monday. He was happy to have his noble Friend's support upon the present occasion; but he owned it did appear to him—and he would be ready to argue the point on Monday—that the Government having brought forward a bill upon this subject, were entitled to propose the second reading of it upon a Government day, and before any other business.Lord J. Russell
 said, that on the subject first adverted to by the right hon. Baronet, he could only say, that it had received great attention from his noble Friend (Lord Palmerston), and he had no doubt his noble Friend would give the same answer to the right hon. Baronet when he was present. With regard to the second question, he believed that the document referred to by the right hon. Baronet was a faithful counterpart of the Governor's speech. He must add, that her Majesty's Government felt great gratification, upon the whole, with the conduct of the House of Assembly of Jamaica.Lord John Russell
 said, that the object of his first question was not to impute any blame whatever. He had risen merely to state that he had received accounts of shameful cruelties having been inflicted upon the Jews of Damascus; and he thought that the British House of Commons was not an unfit place to make an appeal to the British Government to exercise whatever influence it possessed to ensure an impartial administration of justice. Tortures had been inflicted upon that unfortunate people, he feared with the connivance of some Christian authorities, which reflected disgrace and dishonour on the age in which we lived.Sir R. Peel
1306 said, that not seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Foreign Department, in his place, he begged, instead of putting a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, with respect to the present condition of the Jewish population of Damascus, to make an appeal to the British Government to exercise such influence as it could exercise, in order to ensure to those persons impartial justice. He would, however, ask a question of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies. He had seen in the public papers a document which purported to be a dispatch from the Governor-general of Jamaica. In that dispatch there was a passage, which was an extract from the address of the Governor-general to the Speaker and the Gentlemen of the House of Assembly and the Gentlemen of the Council, in which the Governor-general congratulated them upon the happy termination of the Session, during which they had eminently manifested their loyalty to the Queen, and their earnest desire to meet the views of her Majesty's advisers, as well as their devotion to their public duties. The Governor also expressed his sincere gratification at the determination which they had evinced to adapt their
1306Sir R. Peel
1386 remarked, that there seemed to be one way of vindicating the professors of the Jewish religion from the aspersions which had been cast on them, and that was by giving the British Jews, as British subjects, the full benefit of the English laws. The statement which had been that night made, though it came from a most respectable quarter, would have been much more forcible if it had proceeded from a Hebrew gentleman in that House. He wished to ask whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce any measure, as a Government measure,
1386Mr. O'Connell
 rose to move the addition of the following proviso at the end of the first clause:—"That any such judge, after the present Parliament, shall, during his continuance in office as judge, be incapable of being elected or sitting as a Member of the House of Commons." The noble Lord said, that the division when this question was formerly discussed was so small, that the opinion of the House could hardly be fairly considered to have been expressed upon it. He considered it a great disadvantage that a judge should owe his seat in that House to popular election; and if the objection were urged that the Recorders of London and of Dublin were popularly elected, he would say that they were not appointed by the Crown. Then, also, there was a great difference in the position of a judge in the House of Lords and a judge in the House of Commons; because, as had been said by a writer in a public print, which advocated the opinions generally advanced by hon. Members opposite, the former held his post for life, and lost no dignity by playing the mob orator.Lord Hotham
 seconded the amendment. He did so with some regret, however, as, if carried, it would necessarily exclude his hon. Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, from the House. But as he had always voted for the exclusion of judges from this House, he should do so again now.Mr. Hume
 when he saw hon. and learned Gentlemen filling similar situations to that which was held by the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, (he alluded to the Recorders for London and Dublin), he could not help thinking, that all the arguments which were applicable to one case applied equally to the other. He would vote for such a proposition if it were made generally to exclude all judicial functionaries from the House. But he could not support an amendment which was intended to exclude one individual singly.Mr. Ward,
1411 had intended to vote against the amendment of the noble Lord; but holding a judicial office himself, he was prepared to withdraw from the House if it were considered desirable he should do so. Lord Althorp had said, in reference to the proposition for excluding judicial officers from the House, that it should not be applied during the lifetime of the present
1411Mr. Shaw
 said, that his sentiments were already known as being opposed to the principle of the amendment moved by the noble Lord opposite; and he had not heard anything from the noble Lord this evening, that at all shook his opinion on the subject. Not one of the arguments used by the noble Lord, but would apply equally against the admission of all judicial officers in this House. For his own part, however, he had always maintained that it was for the advantage of the constitution of this House, that there should be in it as many men of learning as the people would send to it. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets was a man of education and talent, and he should therefore be sorry to see the House deprived of his services. Having so stated his opinion upon this subject, he should not, however, press it to a division, perceiving that the sense of the House was against him, and in favour of the amendment of the noble Lord.Lord John Russell
 upon the balance of evils and benefits, thought that the evils were more than recompensed by the advantages of great learning being brought into the House. There were many occasions where questions of international law, and of the construction of treaties, were discussed, in which the House stood greatly in need of such learning as the right hon. Gentleman possessed. He should therefore reluctantly vote against the motion of his noble Friend.Sir E. Sugden,
 felt reluctantly bound to support the amendment. With the highest respect for the talents and integrity of the present learned Judge of the Admiralty Court, he did not think it possible that he could give a judgment which should be beyond suspicion, as long as he represented such a constituency as the Tower Hamlets. This objection would equally apply to a representative of Hull, Liverpool, or any other place of that character.Dr. Nicholl
 opposed the amendment, and said, that it might with just as much propriety be moved to exclude the Chancellor of the Exchequer from Parliament, as that officer, in the course of his duties, had to give important decisions upon various applications on commercial subjects.Mr. Pryme
 opposed the motion, and moved, as an amendment, that the bill be read a third time that day six months.Sir R. Bateson
 seconded the amendment. He was persuaded if the bill passed, it would be greatly injurious to the agricultural interests of Ireland.Colonel Conolly
 supported the third reading of the bill. He believed that all that had been said by those who had proposed and seconded the amendment, had put the question upon a false footing.Mr. More O'Ferrall
 was at first opposed to the bill, but since the time it was introduced, seeing the smuggling that had taken place, he felt that he could not, in justice to the fair trader, oppose it longer. He should therefore give his assent to the third rending.Sir D. Roche
 had already stated., that the operation of the bill would be of a very limited nature, but he was induced to look at the question in a much more important light from the statements that had just been made by the hon. Baronet behind him, that smuggling to a great extent was carried on from Liverpool to Ireland. That arose from the anomaly in the law, by which foreign flour was imported under different provisions into Ireland and England. He trusted, under these circumstances, and seeing that the arguments used, that it would injuriously affect the interests of Ireland, rested on the most vague and unstable grounds, he trusted the House would allow the bill to be read a third time.Mr. Labouchere
 had had communications with almost every miller in Ireland, and without exception they were all opposed to the bill.Mr. E. Tennent
 was satisfied that the bill would inflict no injury whatever on tilt? Mill interest of Ireland, if he thought so, he would be the last to support such a measure, which he did most cordially.Mr. Beamish
1413 said, the right hon. Gentleman (the President of the Board of Trade) had, in the most handsome manner, postponed the bill on a former occasion, to ascertain the opinion of the Grand Juries of Ireland on the subject. That had been very distinctly pronounced in the number of petitions that had been presented against the measure; he thought
1413Mr. O. Gore
 seconded the motion, as he did not think the clause he wished to propose would be discussed at so late an hour.Viscount Sandon
 did not think that his noble Friend had shown sufficient cause for he production of these papers. He knew lot why he should now revive the controversy that had taken place between them when the noble Lord had been his colleague, and upon the occasion of discussing the army estimates. All that his noble Friend could want was, to show that he was wrong, and his noble Friend was right. The discussion upon the subject could accomplish no good, and might be attended with much mischief. The Governor-general had some time since, in writing to him, stated that he trusted this subject would not be revived; because all that was done by it was creating very great discontent, which it would be most difficult to allay at a future time. What must be the effect of his noble Friend's motion, if carried? That he then should be obliged to move for other papers that were submitted to the Commander-in-chief on this subject. He could tell his noble Friend that he had the assent of the Commander-in-chief to the present arrangement, and now if those documents were to be had on the one side, he must have documents on the other. What was the use of his noble Friend's motion? What did his noble Friend want? Was it for the satisfaction of showing what was Lord William Bentinck's opinion, who, he admitted, agreed with the views of his noble Friend? Three months ago orders had been sent to equalize the pay in the three presidencies; and these arrangements had been satisfactory to all whose advice was worth taking on the subject. This, too, was the first time that such returns were moved for. To what persons, he asked, were the returns moved to be addressed? Out of what office were they to be received? The fact was, that his noble Friend recollected certain things that had been said in debate, and then he wished to show that his views were right, and those of others were wrong. He must say, that unless his noble Friend could show a good reason for his having the returns, he trusted he would not press his motion.Sir J. Hobhouse
 suggested to the noble Lord that he ought not to press his motion, as no advantage could be gained by it.Mr. Elliott
 considered that it was not at an hour like this (past one o'clock) that such a motion ought to be debated. If the noble Lord would not withdraw his motion, he should move that the debate be adjourned.Sir J. Graham
1418 did not, he said, intend to oppose the motion of the right hon. Baronet who had last spoken. It was only a few minutes before he made his motion that he received an intimation that it would be opposed. He had not brought it forward for the purpose of showing that his opinions were correct, but because he had
1418Viscount Howick
1396139513941393 rose to move an amendment, of which he had given previous notice. He seldom trespassed on the House by reverting to anything that he had uttered in that House on previous occasions, but he could not help bearing testimony to the clear and concise statement as to the condition of our colonies at this crisis, which had been called forth from the noble Lord, in his reply to the observations he (Dr. Lushington) had made. There was no doubt that the general description which had then been given perfectly corresponded with the state of the colonies. Notwithstanding all that had been done, and all
1396139513941393Dr. Lushington
14061405 thought that the more this subject was considered the more apparent would be the necessity to postpone the consideration of this project. He fully agreed in the importance of increasing the supply of free labour in our colonies, but in doing so they ought to take care that it should be free labour, and guard against any danger that it would be made slave labour. He certainly agreed that the Government ought to be anxious to facilitate the supply of free labour, but they ought
14061405Mr. O'Connell
in loco parentis1407 said, that the right hon. Baronet opposite had very properly divided this subject into three branches. First, with respect to the condition of these labourers in India, their condition on the voyage, and their subsequent condition in the Mauritius. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had argued against the introduction of these labourers into the Mauritius; but the main drift of his speech was, with reference to the acts passed by the Assembly of Jamaica. That, however, was a question into which he would not now enter further than to say that those acts, having been approved of by the Assembly, were entitled to the most sober consideration of parties at home. With respect to the introduction of these labourers into the Mauritius, he certainly thought that nothing had been said to convince him that they ought to depart from the general principle, that every British subject had a right to seek the best market for his labour whenever he could find it. It was true that great evils had existed in the Mauritius, but not to the extent that was alleged. But, out of the several estates with respect to which an inquiry had been made into the condition of the labourers, it appeared that there were only three in which the conduct of the owners were complained of. This question had been before the House for a longer period of the Session than almost any other that had engaged its attention, and he certainly did not think that they ought to be asked to postpone it further. It had been urged by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) as a ground for delay, that they ought to wait for the report of the committee and the opinion of the Governor-general of India. This the right hon. Gentleman anticipated would reach this country by the 4th of next month. But let the House consider the mischief that would arise from this delay. Delay would be productive of ruin to the colony. All this bill asked was to affirm and provide for the possibility of emigration from India to the Mauritius taking place. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had said he would intrust the powers of this measure to Sir Lionel Smith; the right hon. Baronet the Member for Pembroke had expressed his willingness to confide the
in loco parentis1407Mr. V. Smith
1399 would ask whether the delay now required would benefit the West India planters; if so, he would support the right hon. and learned Gentle-
1399Mr. Grantley Berkeley
John Russell:1397 bore testimony that the Hill Coolies were not backward in appealing to the tribunals established in the Mauritius. It was material to keep this in view, because it had been urged that the Coolies were unable to attend to their own interests. He had been in the Mauritius, and though only for a few days, he was—as all travellers, without exception, were—much struck at the extraordinary mixture of races. Most certainly people coming from the East Indies could have no difficulty in finding an interpreter, for there were there Mahometan as well as Hindoo, and every species of the Eastern inhabitants. This was a material point to keep in view, as he thought his hon. and learned Friend had rather too much strained that part of his speech in which he described the Coolies as completely helpless and unprotected. He had been employed to inquire into the condition of the labourers in the East, and he found that in Bengal the remuneration of the labourer was from two to two and a half rupees per month. Would they then, in such circumstances, prevent a man like this from emigrating to a place where he would be much better paid? But this difference in his wages would not be the only advantage. His country was subject to inundations, and the inhabitants to famine. In 1806 he was at Madras, when the dreadful famine existed. He had seen mothers tottering feebly along, scarcely able to carry their infants, and men dying by the road side by thousands, on their way to the coast to obtain some relief from the rice which Government had shipped. Would they then prevent men subject to the chance of such misery from emigrating? He would mention another instance to show the dreadful calamities these people occasion-
John Russell:1397Mr. Elliot
 said, he was bound to bear his testimony to the great zeal and activity manifested by his noble Friend, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, in the prosecution of his endeavours to relieve the unfortunate Jews at Damascus, and also in the affairs of the Jews generally. He (Lord Ashley) had received that day letters from the East, in which it was stated that the sole object of these abominable cruelties was the extortion of money.Lord Ashley
 who replied at some length, was almost wholly inaudible; but the substance of the noble Lord's answer was understood to be, that he was individually favourable to such a measure, and had always supported it; but that the Government were not prepared to introduce any measure.Lord J. Russell,
Tumuli increasing.Tumult continuing.1388s.s.s.Here the call of" Order, order," and the noise, prevented the noble Lord from completing the sentence.1387l.l.l.l.l. was understood to say be felt it necessary to state to the House the general circumstances and principles I upon which the Government thought it right to originate this measure. He wished to state what the Government intended to do with reference to the West India colonies, as well as all the other colonies. The emancipation of the negroes took place in 1838, and it was worthy the attention of the House to hear how that act had operated upon those who were the objects of; it. As far as that act went to affect the moral character and conduct of the negroes and the peace of the colonies nothing could be more gratifying or satisfactory than the result. Since that act had passed some negroes had made great acquisitions of property, especially in British Guiana. In that colony one negro had purchased land of tie value of 2,200Tumuli increasing.Tumult continuing.1388s.s.s.Here the call of" Order, order," and the noise, prevented the noble Lord from completing the sentence.1387l.l.l.l.l.Lord J. Russell
1391d.1390l.l.1389: One of the measures which the House sanctioned without a dissentient voice was the expedition to Africa, with a view of forming upon the Niger and elsewhere some commercial relations with the African chiefs, for the purpose of inducing them not to sell their people, but adopt some useful commercial traffic. But, on this point, let the House recollect that we had had the greatest difficulty with the nations of Europe, and with the most enlightened nations, too, in inducing them to concur with us in condemning the slave trade. If that were the case, then, how much more difficult, how gradual must be the progress we could make in persuading the barbarous chiefs of Africa, to abandon their cruel and inhuman traffic. But there were other measures to which the colonies themselves had turned their attention. They say with justice that slavery was abolished; every labourer working in the colonies was free to make his own contract. The prices of labour were to be regulated
1391d.1390l.l.1389Lord J. Russell
 had no objection to the production of the bill. He would not say that all the clauses in that bill were unobjectionable, but he thought that the most advisable course was, to give the freest scope to free labour, as opposed to the labour of slaves.Lord J. Russell
Morning Chronicle asked the House for a moment's indulgence in a matter personal to himself, but connected with his public duty. It had been stated in the Morning ChronicleMr. Shaw
1403 said that, after the observations of the noble Lord who had just sat down, he should have been disposed to doubt the propriety of the conclusion which he had formed upon this bill, if it were not that he believed that the noble Lord had misunderstood the scheme which was proposed. It was, in fact, totally opposite to that which he had suggested. The noble Lord had said, that it was intended to revive the system by which speculators were to profit by the trade of exporting the Hill Coolies; and, if that had been so, he (Mr. Labouchere) should have opposed the measure as much as the noble Lord; but he begged to assure him that the plan of his noble Friend rested upon this principle, that this emigration should be conducted solely and exclusively by Government agency in India and in the Mauritius. No individual interest was to affect, nor could it do the slightest thing to hinder the emigration; but it was to be placed altogether in the hands of the Government. The order in council upon which this plan was carried on was similar in its operation to that upon which the system existing in Demerara and Trinidad was founded, of which the noble Lord has spoken in such terms of commendation. Another provision which afforded great protection to the emigrant was, that no contract made with him could endure more than one year. He could understand gentlemen who objected altogether to the principle of importation of free labourers from India into the Mauritius, but he could not understand those who, while they admitted the importance of encouraging the emigration of free labourers, objected to the mode of doing so which this bill would give the opportunity of providing. No hon. Member had told them on what principles the emigration ought to be conducted; and he was not surprised at it, because he contended that the details of such a plan had much better be left to the local authorities. They could not effectually be marked out in any bill in that House. He would remind the House that these clauses were introduced at the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Pembroke, in order to afford an opportunity for the re-discussion of the question whether the
1403Mr. Labouchere
 rose to order. This is a subject upon which the attention of many Members of the House is fixed, and it is utterly impossible to know what the noble Lord says owing to the voice of those Members below the bar who are employed in procuring pairs.Mr. Briscoe
 thought that the interests of the West India colonies could only be saved by a system of general emigration, and he trusted that that system would be produced by the provisions of this bill. He hoped that the bill, having been so far sanctioned by the House in its progress, would not now be rejected.Mr. Irving
 wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, whether the Government intended to bring forward any measure for the emancipation of the Jews?Mr. Hume
 should not have risen on the present occasion but for the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, reflecting upon the course of conduct pursued by Sir Charles Metcalfe, who had done more than any individual had ever effected in so short a space of time as that during which he had governed the colony. He had reconciled the most discordant interests in that distracted colony. He felt bound, as a person interested in the welfare of the island, to say thus much of the government of Sir C. Metcalfe. That gallant officer had on no occasion sided with the planters; he had pursued a strict impartiality, and in contradiction to the last sentiment expressed by the hon. and learned Member, he thought him entitled to the confidence of this country. He should vote against the amendment of the right hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, and afterwards in favour of the motion for adding "British Guiana and the other colonies of Great Britain" to the clause after the word "Mauritius."Sir A. Grant
 observed, that the bill to which reference had been made, did not require the royal assent; it had already been assented to by the Governor, and it was not usual, unless upon the representation of the Governor, for the Crown to disallow any bill. In this case, the Governor had recommended that the bill be not disallowed.Sir G. Grey
1404 said, that, although all his first impressions and prepossessions had been in favour of supporting the measure of the Government, the more he had reflected on the subject, the more he saw reason to adopt the views which had been so ably stated by his hon. Friend the Member for Beverley, and to call on the Government to delay this measure. In the first place, he thought it was clearly established that there ought to be as free a circulation of labour as possible in the British dominions, and that the House ought, by every means is in its power, to encourage as much as possible the importation of free labour into the West Indies, where some of the most fertile soil in the world was unproductive for want of hands to till it. With these feelings, no slight reason would induce him to offer any obstruction to the passing of a measure, to many points of which he was prepared to give his approval, especially to those which provided for the passage of the slaves, and to the regulations to be observed with regard to the proportion of the sexes, and the provisions for their return to their native
1404Sir James Graham
Elliot:1398 said, that the petition to which the hon. Gentleman had referred was presented by him, but it was not from the Court of Directors; it was from the whole East India Company. The very moment their alarm was excited by seeing it stated
Elliot:1398Mr. Hogg
 said, that his impression upon the matter had been shared by all the hon. Members who sat near him. He had given no opinion, nor did he intend to give any, with respect to the policy of the act; at the same time he must say, that he viewed the indenture system with great apprehension. He viewed it as a condition which, however brief, placed the party during his continuance under indenture in a situation very little removed from that of slavery.Sir R. Peel
1392 hoped that the noble Lord would well consider the course which he was about to take, and the precedent which it went to establish. The noble Lord was asked to produce an act passed by a colonial Legislature, as to which the Crown had not yet given its assent, and the noble Lord agreed to do so. That precedent once established, similar acts might again be called for by the House, and the opinion of the House taken upon the subject, the consequence of which would be, that the responsibility of sanctioning, modifying, or
1392Sir R. Peel
1384 seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs in his place, would ask the question of which he had given notice on Friday night, relative to the persecution of the Jews at Damascus. He was afraid the remarks he was going to make could hardly be called a question; it was therefore competent for any hon. Member to interfere and prevent him from proceeding, but he was sure, that if they anticipated the purport of the short statement he was going to make, not a single man would insist on the strict observance of the rule of the House in this case. He had been requested to say a few words by persons of the highest character belonging to the Jewish persuasion, who paid that compliment to the House of Commons, to express an assurance that the simple mention of the case would be sufficient to facilitate the great ends of justice and liberality. The circumstances were shortly these:—It appeared that a native of Sardinia, of the name of Thomaso, a Roman Catholic priest, he believed of the Capuchin order, who had lived at Damascus since 1807, disappeared about the beginning of February of the present year, together with his son, under what was certainly strong suspicion of murder. Shortly afterwards a charge was preferred against the Jews in that city, which was really in itself almost incredible—that this gentleman had been murdered, in order that his blood might be made use of in the feast of unleavened bread. A Jew, following the trade of a barber, a young man of about twenty, was apprehended, the monk having been seen near his house posting up a paper on the walls: and he believed that was supposed at first to have been the last time the monk was seen, and this person was therefore apprehended by the authorities of Damascus. The man denied any knowledge of the murder, but he was subjected for three days to the most cruel tortures. At last he could bear them no longer, and when life was almost extinct he charged seven of the most wealthy inhabitants of Damascus, being Jews, with the commission of the murder. Those seven persons, who, he believed, were persons of high character in Damascus, were immediately apprehended, and subjected to torments which he would not shock the feeling of the House by mentioning. Two of them at least, he believed, died under the infliction of those tortures, and the consequence was what might have been expected, that some of them, after enduring
1384Sir R. Peel
 had not asked for the bill with any view of eliciting from the House of Commons an opinion upon the subject. It was not usual for acts passed by the Legislature of Jamaica to receive the assent of the Crown. If for two years after they were passed the Crown gave no directions, the acts were finally binding. His noble Friend had not disallowed this act, and all that he wanted from him was a special confirmation, in order that there should be no future disallowance of the measure. For these reasons he thought the course now proposed to be taken would not create a new precedent.Viscount Howick
 concurred generally with his noble Friend who had just sat down, but he so far differed from him as to think that the labour of indentured persons could not be considered free labour.Viscount Howick
 was anxious to ask his noble Friend whether he proposed to lay before the House the act of the Jamaica Assembly in relation to this subject, an act of which he had only just heard for the first time; because, if that measure was so objectionable as it appeared to be from some remarks of the noble Lord, he should feel it his duty to make some proposition to that House upon the subject'. He trusted, therefore, that the noble Lord would not only lay the bill on the table of the House, but that he would give some assurance that the formal assent of her Majesty to the measure should not be given to it, should it happen to be disapproved of by the House.Viscount Howick
140214011400 said that the question before the House appeared to him to be whether, by the introduction of these clauses, they were to allow the trade which had been before carried on to be again commenced as a matter of private speculation. It was said that it was not to be a matter of private speculation, but unless in some shape private persons were to be encouraged in these speculations, he saw no object with which these clauses could be adopted. The Government themselves were to superintend the conveyance of the Hill Coolies to the Mauritius; but if in that consisted the whole of the regulation, why, he asked, were these clauses introduced for regulating the importation of the natives of India in vessels, not taken up by the Government, but in merchant vessels proceeding to the Mauritius? He thought that in reality the only effect of this bill would be to permit that atrocious trade, which had before existed, to be renewed under some circumstances or other, and although he had no doubt that his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Colonies, would endeavour to put an end to the evils of that trade by the appointment of agents and other means, he had the strongest doubts how far any sufficient regulation could be possibly effected. It was found that the system was still carried on, and what security, he asked, was there that abuses of the same kind would not be again perpetrated? There were facts stated in the papers before the House which must remove all doubts upon the point which he suggested, or upon the misery which was experienced by the wretched emigrants. Many of them had felt so forcibly their wretched condition, that in their voyage they had thrown themselves overboard to escape from the
140214011400Viscount Howick
1385 said, the subject
1385Viscount Palmerston
 did not see why the standing order should not be dispensed with in the present as in public works, such as the railway communication between this and Edinburgh. He thought, as a general principle, that every encouragement should be given to such works, for the sake of the employment they, gave to thousands of the labouring poor.Mr. H. Hinde
 resisted the application, on the ground that the Committee of Standing Orders hid over and over again decided that those orders were absolutely essential for the protection of the public. There was no reason why they should be departed from in this instance. Unless the portion of the capital required by the orders, that is, 10 per cent., were deposited in the Exchequer, prior to the application to Parliament, the door would be opened to the formation of such visionary or fraudulent schemes as the order was designed to prevent.Mr. Green
14 said, that if this were a mere private speculation, or an ordinary railway, he might concur in the observation of the Gentleman who had last addressed the House. But this was a great national undertaking, by which the country would be relieved from great expense, and the Government and a large portion of the public would derive considerable advantage and convenience. The plan had been recommended by the Government Commissioners, who reported that it would save so much as seven hours in the communication between London and Dublin. The Commissioners, however, reported, at the same time, that it could not be undertaken with advantage by private capitalists, and ought, therefore, to be accomplished by the Government itself, as a matter of
14Mr. John Jarvis
15 said, that he held in his hand a petition from the Chamber of Commerce of Dublin in favour of this bill, in which the petitioners called the particular attention to this as a national work. They further stated, that, by the union of the two countries, mischief had been done to Ireland, inasmuch as the excise and customs departments had been removed from Dublin to London, and it was therefore of the highest importance that not one moment's time should be lost in the communication between the two countries. For that purpose the petitioners prayed that this railroad might be proceeded with as soon as possible. He was glad to find from the arguments of the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. Greene), and the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Estcourt), that there was no substantial objection to this motion. The one had shown that the motion could do no harm, because his objection to it did not apply. The other had stated that no mischief could possibly arise from agreeing to the motion, as they could not bind the next Session of Parliament. All the merits of the question were in favour of granting the motion, but a technical rule was against it. The interests of Ireland required that the motion should be granted, and yet a technical rule was to be triumphant.
15Mr. O'Connell
pari passu41 said, he was by no means opposed to the bringing in of this bill, for he had on former occasions 'lent his assistance to the Secretary of State in seeking to abridge the number of offences to which capital punishment applied. This was to him a most grateful task; but though he thought they had not yet arrived at the point to which they might safely advance in abolishing capital punishments, yet he must say there had been no supineness in the progress which had been made. He was of opinion that there were yet some offences liable to capital punishment which might cease to be so, though he could not go the length of his learned Friend. He hoped, however, as his learned Friend had now obtained leave to bring in the bill, he would be content to do so, and allow it to stand over until next Session of Parliament, inasmuch as they were not at present prepared to enter upon its consideration. He thought it was monstrous that this bill should be limited to England. He did not
pari passu41The Attorney General
 felt bound to state that the feeling of a great number of Roman Catholics as to this grant was positively indifferent. If the principle laid down by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford were adopted, and if the grant were withdrawn on the ground that it was unfair to tax the inhabitants of a country for the support of a religion in which they did not conscientiously believe, he was quite sure it would meet with universal approbation. This motion came most appropriately from the hon. Member for Kent, for that part of Kent which contained the metropolitan see was the scene of operations of the missionary Thom. He had remarked, in the course of this discussion, that while the hon. Member for Kent was engaged in an attack on the Roman Catholic religion, the Scotch Members had loudly cheered; but when the hon. Member came out with his exclusive Church of England doctrines, those Members retired to the back benches. He cautioned those hon. Members against supporting such a measure as this, seeing on what principle it was founded.Mr. M. J. O'Connell
: I think it would be quite useless to send out a commission, because the Government are in possession of all the facts of the case. I believe the state of the population has been materially improved within the last few years. The hon. Member for Kilkenny has complained that Sir Thomas Maitland had disarmed the people. But why did he disarm them? Simply because they rebelled against him. A strong Russian party was perpetuallly intriguing; and if strong measures had not been resorted to, I have no doubt that much blood would have been shed. I trust the noble Lord will consent to withdraw his motion.Captain Boldero
60 cordially concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in opposing any breach of any compact that had been entered into on this subject. But independent of the compact, he would go upon general principles, and would ask whether they, the House, could adopt the motion on the general principles laid down by the hon. Member for Kent. The suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman behind him, for a motion for inquiring as to the course of instruction at Maynooth, or as to the regulations there, were very different from the present proposition for the discontinuance of the grant. The matter had been taken up on grounds very different, and it involved questions to which he would not allude. He must observe, however, that having been engaged in attending to matters connected with the improvement of Ireland, he wished to disconnect these practical measures with those topics which could only cause disunion. He had expressed these feelings with reference to the subject of education generally, and he thought that it should be the object of the Legislature to do all that they consistently could to conciliate the feelings of the people of Ireland; and if, therefore, they came to a vote on the subject of a grant to the College of Maynooth he hoped that it would be distinctly understood in the country that it was not on the minor point as to the regulations of that institution, but whether a system of education should be continued there in conformity with the feelings of that country. He was ex-
60Mr. W. Lascelles
66"That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to direct a Commission to be sent to
6665"Whereas, in the preceding article, provision is made for establishing a temporary court of justice, denominated the Supreme Council of Justice of the United States of the Ionian Islands, and for maintaining the same till such time as new codes of civil and criminal law and procedure can be framed and adopter, and which provision operates, for the time being, as a reservation to a future period of the adjusting the final constitution in these states, as far as regards the judicial authority within the same; it is hereby declared, that whenever such civil and criminal codes and procedure shall be framed, or when the three years shall have expired for which the Supreme Council of Justice is established, the Legislative Assembly of these states shall, on a message to be transmitted to that effect by his Excellency the Lord High Commissioner, consider itself to be sitting for the immediate consideration of the said reserved matters of the constitution; and all the enactments then made for the final adjustment of the due courts of law, and of a fitting and civil criminal code and procedure, shall, in the first instance (as in the instance of the constitution itself), be submitted to his Majesty the protecting Sovereign; and, if ratified, they shall then be considered, to all intents and purposes, as forming an integral part of the constitution itself of these stales."64"Let not the weakness of the sufferers produce indifference to their just complaints. Is the mismanagement of 190,000 of our fellow subjects a trifle? If it is pleaded that the Ionians are not "lieges" of the king of England, does not the peculiarity of their dependence aggravate, in the eyes of Europe, the disgrace of the misgovernment?"Westminster Review63: In moving "That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be pleased to direct a Commission to be sent to the Ionian Islands, to inquire into the grievances which at present exist," said, I will not trespass on the attention of the House at any great length. I propose to
66"That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to direct a Commission to be sent to
6665"Whereas, in the preceding article, provision is made for establishing a temporary court of justice, denominated the Supreme Council of Justice of the United States of the Ionian Islands, and for maintaining the same till such time as new codes of civil and criminal law and procedure can be framed and adopter, and which provision operates, for the time being, as a reservation to a future period of the adjusting the final constitution in these states, as far as regards the judicial authority within the same; it is hereby declared, that whenever such civil and criminal codes and procedure shall be framed, or when the three years shall have expired for which the Supreme Council of Justice is established, the Legislative Assembly of these states shall, on a message to be transmitted to that effect by his Excellency the Lord High Commissioner, consider itself to be sitting for the immediate consideration of the said reserved matters of the constitution; and all the enactments then made for the final adjustment of the due courts of law, and of a fitting and civil criminal code and procedure, shall, in the first instance (as in the instance of the constitution itself), be submitted to his Majesty the protecting Sovereign; and, if ratified, they shall then be considered, to all intents and purposes, as forming an integral part of the constitution itself of these stales."64"Let not the weakness of the sufferers produce indifference to their just complaints. Is the mismanagement of 190,000 of our fellow subjects a trifle? If it is pleaded that the Ionians are not "lieges" of the king of England, does not the peculiarity of their dependence aggravate, in the eyes of Europe, the disgrace of the misgovernment?"Westminster Review63Lord C. Fitzroy
69: I believe the discontent which prevails in the Ionian Islands has been caused by mis-government; and that the disaffection of the people to our protection has not arisen from the restlessness of their character; and as to the opinion of the law officers of the Crown on the difference which existed between the legislative body and the Senate, I now boldly declare before the Attorney-general that he never read the constitution of the Ionian states, and that he does not appear to know, that there is a difference between the mode of passing fundamental laws and ordinary laws. If the two last acts of the new Legislative Assembly obtain the approbation of her Majesty, under the advice of a Liberal Government, I shall exceedingly regret it—I mean the one allowing the police to flog prisoners at discretion; the other establishing a censorship for
69Lord C. Fitzroy
67: I do not think the motion of the noble Lord would lead to a solution of the difficulties which have existed in the Ionian Islands. The noble Lord says that a difference of opinion prevailed as to whether were of that nature which required the concurrence of the Assembly only, or of the Assembly and the Senate. Upon that question being stated by the Lord High Commissioner to the Secretary of State, the latter thought it right to inform the Lord High Commissioner of the opinion of the Sovereign; and no better course could have been taken than stating the interpretation which the law officers of the Crown put upon the original contract; and that interpretation was, that the Senate must concur with the Assembly in agreeing to such laws. The opinion of the protective Sovereign, however, was considered of little importance; this concurrence did not take place, and the Lord High Commissioner proposed to receive the consent of her Majesty in Council to dissolve the Assembly. After a good deal of correspondence, that assent was given, and the Assembly was dissolved. A new Assembly was called; it has passed the new code; the Senate have concurred with them: and that code is now about to become the law of the Ionian Islands. That question is therefore at an end. I do not conceive how my noble Friend can say that the Assembly of 1839 was the supreme power, and that the Assembly of 1840 is not. If my noble Friend stands on the act of the Assembly, I may quote the opinion of the latter against the opinion of the former. The question with respect to the general Government remains. I do not deny that the present constitution of the Ionian Islands, while it exhibits the form and figure of a free constitution, is not based on those principles which give the people the right of free election, and their representatives, the control of the Government; but as was said by Sir Howard Douglas, the people are exceedingly uninformed and ill-prepared for the exercise of the constitutional powers of a free Government; and if they possessed those powers, they might in all probability, use them in a very improper manner. I do not think the benefit of a free Government ought at once to be
67Lord John Russell
40393837 was sure the House had no cause to regret that the hon. Gentleman who had made this motion had undertaken the subject, because the strict investigation, the talent, and the enlightened principle which he had brought to the task, could not but be useful to the House and the public in the further investigation of the matter. Neither did he (Lord J. Russell) wish to oppose the motion for leave to bring in the bill, but it would not be fair to the House if he did not state that he could not consent to the final enactment of the bill without further investigation, without several alterations, and, as he thought, without a further delay to a future session of Parliament. Great changes had recently been made in the criminal law of the country. Without entering minutely into the history of those changes, it would be sufficient to mention that, thirty years ago, two hundred offences were liable to capital punishment, and the opinion of the Parliament was then opposed to any considerable alteration of the system. It was impossible to read the memoirs which had been recently published of Sir Samuel Romilly without observing what great difficulties that excellent, learned, and upright man had to contend with in opposing a system which we now all condemned as sanguinary, cruel, and inefficient. It was considered at that time that stealing, to even a small amount, if not visited with capital punishment, would make all property in the country unsafe, and other offences lighter still were liable to capital punishment. When the right hon. Gentleman, who was not now present, introduced his bills for the amendment of the criminal law in 1827, one in ten of all the convictions were capital. About the year 1835, when he (Lord J. Russell) was charged with the business of the Home Department, about one conviction in thirty-two was for a capital offence. In consequence of the various bills brought in, many of them by the hon. Member for Wigan, and some of them by himself, in the year 1837, the
40393837Lord J. Russell
ll13l. begged the indulgence of the House, whilst be shortly stated the object of the motion, with reference to this line of railway, of which he had given notice. It would be in the recollection of the House that, originally there were two plans of railway communication brought before Parliament to connect London and Dublin. The one was proposed to go through Shrewsbury, so as to avoid the Menai Straits; the other was proposed to go from Chester, through Bangor, and on to Holyhead. The superiority of the latter line of railway had been proved by competent and impartial witnesses. Early in the last year, a large public meeting had been-held in London; the result of which was, a request to the Government to appoint engineers to inquire into, and report upon the merits of the two competing lines. The Government thought the request reasonable, and a commission was issued, which, after able and strict inquiry, reported in favour of the Chester and Holyhead line. Unfortunately, that report was not laid on the table till the end of April, and if the House would not accede to his motion, the promotors of this bill would not be able to give the proper notices for next year, and would be compelled to wait till the year 1842. The first object of his motion was to suspend in this case the standing order which required notices to be given, and plans and sections to be deposited within a given time. When he reminded the house that many of the landowners along the line of road had petitioned in its favour, and that not one petition had been presented against it, he was sure that the House would not think it right to subject the promoters of this bill to any unnecessary delay. The second object of his motion was to suspend the standing order which required 10ll13l.Lord R. Grosvenor
 called the hon. Member to order, and declared that the application of the terms cowardly and base to any Member in that House was clearly out of order.The Speaker
 recommended that the motion should be withdrawn, in conformity with the suggestion of his right hon. Friend.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, that his objection to the grant of public money to the College of Maynooth was founded simply upon the mode of education adopted in that seminary. If ever there were such a contract as that to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded, it must be considered as a contract made between the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland and the people of both countries, and a portion of that contract was, that doctrines useful to the morality, the religion, and the peace of Ireland, should be taught in that college. This he contended had not been done. He maintained that the doctrines taught at Maynooth were deeply injurious to the welfare of the country; that they were doctrines of great intolerance towards the Protestants of Ireland; that they were doctrines of great immorality, staling that allegiance to the pope was higher than allegiance to the lawful sovereign of these realms; and he was convinced that if hon. Members would take the trouble to look into the class-books referred to by the hon. Member for Kent, they would find that these doctrines, and worse, were taught and inculcated in this scholastic seminary. No denial had been attempted to be given to the statements on this point which had been made by his hon. Friend near him. He was a friend to a real and just system of education, and he was opposed to a system which inculcated doctrines inimical to the best interest of the nation at large. The Roman Catholic priests who sanctioned the doctrines promulgated at Maynooth were the fixed, the determined, the avowed enemies of the Established Church; they proclaimed the doctrines of that church to be heretical, and they claimed the ascendancy of the church of which they were members. Feeling that the Established Protestant Church afforded the only means of protecting the liberties of Ireland, and looking upon the attacks already made upon that Church, he should give his vote in favour of the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Kent.Mr. Litton
3332l313029"But we are convinced that it ought to be very sparingly inflicted, and we propose to employ it only in cases where either murder or the highest offence against the State has been committed. We are not apprehensive that we shall be thought by many persons to have resorted too frequently to capital punishment; but we think it probable that many, even of those who condemn the English statute-book as sanguinary, may think that our code errs on the other side. They may be of opinion that gang robbery, the cruel mutilation of the person, and possibly rape, ought to be punished with death. These are, doubtless, offences which, if we looked only at their enormity, at the evil which they produce, at the terror which they spread through society, at the depravity which they indicate, we might be inclined to punish capitally. But, atrocious as they are, they cannot, as it appears to us, be placed in the same class with murder. To the great majority of mankind nothing is so dear as life. And we are of opinion that to put robbers, ravishers, and mutilators on the same footing with murderers is an arrangement which diminishes the security of life. There is in practice a close connexion between murder and most of those offences which come nearest to murder in enormity. Those offences are almost always committed under such circumstances that the offender has it in his power to add murder to his guilt.—They are often committed under such circumstances that the offender has a temptation to add murder to his guilt. The same opportunities, the same superiority of force, which enabled a man to
2928ex vi termini27"No one now doubts, that it is the object of criminal punishment not to satisfy the purposes of divine justice, nor to inflict human vengeance, but to deter from the commission of crime."262524232221 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill for the further abolition of the punishment of death. It would be a source of unmixed gratification to him, if through any effort of his, the improvement which he sought to introduce into the criminal law of this country should be effected. He believed the alteration he proposed would tend alike to further the ends of justice, and to improve the national character. He was quite aware of the many difficulties that surrounded the consideration of this question. He was aware how difficult it was—when the public mind was agitated, as it was at this moment, by the recent perpetration of crimes and enormities of the blackest die —he was aware how difficult it was for any hon. Member to propose to Parliament, under, such circumstances, a bill of this
3332l313029"But we are convinced that it ought to be very sparingly inflicted, and we propose to employ it only in cases where either murder or the highest offence against the State has been committed. We are not apprehensive that we shall be thought by many persons to have resorted too frequently to capital punishment; but we think it probable that many, even of those who condemn the English statute-book as sanguinary, may think that our code errs on the other side. They may be of opinion that gang robbery, the cruel mutilation of the person, and possibly rape, ought to be punished with death. These are, doubtless, offences which, if we looked only at their enormity, at the evil which they produce, at the terror which they spread through society, at the depravity which they indicate, we might be inclined to punish capitally. But, atrocious as they are, they cannot, as it appears to us, be placed in the same class with murder. To the great majority of mankind nothing is so dear as life. And we are of opinion that to put robbers, ravishers, and mutilators on the same footing with murderers is an arrangement which diminishes the security of life. There is in practice a close connexion between murder and most of those offences which come nearest to murder in enormity. Those offences are almost always committed under such circumstances that the offender has it in his power to add murder to his guilt.—They are often committed under such circumstances that the offender has a temptation to add murder to his guilt. The same opportunities, the same superiority of force, which enabled a man to
2928ex vi termini27"No one now doubts, that it is the object of criminal punishment not to satisfy the purposes of divine justice, nor to inflict human vengeance, but to deter from the commission of crime."262524232221Mr. Kelly
 said, that after the appeal which had been made to him by his hon. Friend, he must say, in reply, that he was impelled by a sense of public duty firmly, decisively, and openly to declare that he would not consent to delay the further progress of the bill for a single day. If there was any thing less at stake than human life, no one would be more ready than himself to agree to the suggestion of his hon. Friend; but considering the nature and objects of the bill, and the mischiefs which resulted from having our practice different to our law, he felt bound to say that at every stage of the bill he would take the sense of the House as to whether it should pass or not. He would therefore put down the second reading for the very earliest day, and he only regretted that after repeatedly putting off the bill to suit the convenience of the noble Lord who wished to take the sense of the House on the first reading, he should now put it off to the second reading. He had, however, the most sanguine hopes, from the state of public opinion both out and in the House, that the bill would be successfully carried into law in the present Session. With respect to what had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend, as to extending the bill to Ireland and Scotland, he should be glad to do so, and saw no difficulty in doing so in the present Session, and he hoped he should have his hon. Friend's assistance in accomplishing that object, in which case he would forthwith bring in bills for both countries, and it would be then for the House to say whether it would trifle with human life, and with public opinion, by unnecessary delay.Mr. Kelly
 said, that, generally speaking, technical rules were useful, but he thought this was a case in which an exception might fairly be allowed.Mr. Shaw
61 stated that if the Speaker declared the terms to be unparliamentary, he of course must withdraw the expression. He, however, would suppose a case, and would observe that he could not conceive anything more base or cowardly than for any body of men on the hustings supporting the gravest charges against an institution, and coming forward before their constituents, whether in Kent, or Maidstone, or Cambridge, he would not stop to say, and addressing to them the basest calumnies and falsehoods that could be invented, and indulging in the most unfounded and uncharitable observations against a body of their fellow Christians, and denominating the college of Maynooth a den of thieves, and even worse than a den of thieves. He must say
61Mr. W. Barron
 observed that it would be considered an insult to the people of Ireland, if the House did not go to a division on this subject. It was notorious that many Members opposite had gained seats in that House by their declamations on the hustings on this subject, and by the base and cowardly manner in which they had made their attacks on this institution.Mr. Barron
 was extremely sorry to attribute proceedings to certain persons which the hon. Member had said were so applicable to his friends around him. He thought that it would have been more prudent of Gentlemen opposite to have followed the example set them that night by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, for the language which he used did him honour. He was sure the right hon. Gentleman would give credit in the country for the conduct which he had pursued, and he (Mr. Barron) was happy to see him shrink from contact with a certain portion of the party with which he was still connected.Mr. W. Barron
17l.16 quite agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that to establish a speedy communication between Dublin and London, was an object which, since the union, had become of an importance which he might fairly call pre-eminently and peculiarly a national one, and the House had shown at various times, that they entertained the same belief by the public money that had been advanced to facilitate that communication. He thought, however, that no good reason had been offered to the House why they should relax in favour of a private bill those standing orders which it had thought fit and proper to adopt for the protection of the public. The hon. and
17l.16Mr. Labouchere
 would advise hon. Members to refuse this motion, unless they were prepared to relax the standing orders in every case. With respect to the general policy of this standing order, about which so much had been said, his belief was, that it would be a benefit to the real holders of railway stock, if subscription lists were prevented from coming into the market, unless the whole or the greater part of the shares was disposed of. If the House did not wish to see all the abuses which were formerly so fully exposed revived, they ought not to relax their standing order. If they did so in one instance, they must do so in all. If it were wished to have it totally repealed, let a motion for that purpose be made; but let not the order be relaxed in this one case, without any special reason assigned, which was only to be made a precedent for general relaxation.Mr. Warburton
42, after presenting several petitions against any further grant of public money to the Roman Catholic College of Maynooth, proceeded to bring forward
42Mr. Plumptre
 was willing to withdraw his motion, if such was the opinion of those who supported the view which he took of the subject; but he was in the hands of the House.Mr. Plumptre
 stated that the hon. Member had brought forward his motion in the proper form, if he was anxious to take the decision of the House on the subject. After the statements that had been made by the hon. Gentleman and others who supported the motion, he thought that it was incumbent on him to take the sense of the House on the subject.Mr. Hume
: I believe that no country was ever worse used than these islands under Sir Thomas Maitland, who disarmed the whole population. They had the semblance of a free constitution, but they never derived any benefit from it. Corruption was notoriously prevalent, and I believe it was practised chiefly by the Governor. Situations were bestowed on Englishmen, to the exclusion of the natives, and the salaries were increased to an enormous extent. Similar complaints were made with respect to Malta. A Commissioner was sent out, who ascertained that those complaints were well founded, and this House adopted the recommendations contained in the report made on that occasion. I trust the House will now institute an inquiry, and I have not the least doubt that it will be attended with the same result.Mr. Hume
, after an acknowledgement of the attention and research which the hon. and learned Member for Ipswich had so usefully bestowed upon this subject, said that the more we ameliorated the law under which exhibitions so disgusting, so disgraceful, and so injurious to the morals of the people, and so contrary to the objects which the Legislature had in view in the infliction of punishment, the more would the character of the people be improved. In no instances had offences increased in consequence of the punishment having been mitigated. On the contrary, in every instance they had decreased; and it rested, therefore, with the noble Lord to prove, that in the punishments which had heretofore taken place, there had not been an unnecessary sacrifice of human life. He was one of those who always thought that the utmost severity of punishment could never operate so as to prevent the murders resulting from passion; and he also thought that executions, and the conduct of spectators at them, tended to demoralize, rather than improve the public mind.Mr. Hume
59 did not see how
59Mr. Sergeant Jackson
53"Thou almost tempt'st me to forswear my faith, And hold opinion with Pythagoras."Bassanio52l.,lll51totus teres atque rotundus; Salamanca would, in the Spanish Cortes, be faithfully represented by the Member whom a Protestant University delegates to this House. He is a consistent politician, whose virtues are best illustrated by the Horatian metaphor, for if any man ever was, the hon. baronet must be on all hands admitted to be "53"Thou almost tempt'st me to forswear my faith, And hold opinion with Pythagoras."Bassanio52l.,lll51totus teres atque rotundusMr. Sheil
 rose to order. He appealed to the chair whether the observations of the hon. Member did not distinctly apply to certain Members on his side of the House. The hon. Gentleman had stated that hon. Members had shrunk from using language in that House which they had addressed to their constituents out of it.Mr. Christopher
 admitted that the railway in question was a national undertaking. But so was every other railway. The proposition in question was altogether irregular, and he thought it would be absurd enough to give an hon. Member leave to bring in a bill in the next Session of Parliament. Let the application be made in the next Session of Parliament. It would be for that Session of Parliament to inquire whether the proper notices had been given, and whether the proper deposits had been made, and whether, in fact, the standing orders had been complied with; and if that were not the case, then would be the time to endeavour to induce the House to accede to the proposition now made. At present the House had no jurisdiction to enter into any transaction on behalf of the ensuing Session of Parliament.Mr. Estcourt
36inclinatio temporum,35, in seconding the motion, expressed his satisfaction that the principles in which it originated were diffusing themselves generally, and were not confined to any one particular party or section. He had the more pleasure in supporting the views of the hon. and learned mover, because three years ago he had brought under the notice of the House the same proposition. Three years ago the measure was all but carried in that House, being lost only by a majority of one. The numbers were seventy to seventy-one, and he was happy, although at that time the House did not legally establish the law, that capital punishment should be abolished in all cases except murder, yet that the principle had been acted upon; and since 1837 no capital punishment had taken place, except for murder or attempt at murder. It was not paying the noble Lord below him a compliment—it was merely doing justice, to say, that he had done more for the amendment of our system of prison discipline than any other Minister had done. He believed the noble Lord was more peculiarly fitted for that department of the duties of the office of Home Secretary than any who had preceded him. It was to him we owed in a great measure the separate system, which was destined to be the model of all schemes for criminal reformation in this country. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member that transportation, although it should be abolished as a punishment, ought to be retained as a supplement to punishment. Punishment might be inflicted by previous confinement, but there were certain cases in which it was desirable that the offender should have the opportunity of making a new life, and establishing a new character, and for that purpose of going to a new world, where, untainted by past recollections, he might establish a new and good reputation. It was the opinion of one of the greatest foreign jurists, as well as his, that this was the use, and the only use, which ought to be made of transportation. The hon. and learned Gentleman had referred to the anomaly in our law by which a man committing felony might, if death ensued, be executed, although the felony had not been committed in contemplation of death. This reminded him of another anomaly with respect to cases of common intent. In many instances a man might join with others in a common intent, and if the
36inclinatio temporum,35Mr. Ewart
l.l55l.l."He was the mildest-mannered man afloat That ever scuttled ship or out a throat" said, he could not but think the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down somewhat singular, inasmuch as the hon. and learned Member had complained of the desire for ascendancy on the part of the Roman Catholics, and declared his intention to vote in support of the ascendancy of another church. The hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, by his speech to-night, had answered the arguments upon which he must found his motion on Tuesday next, on the subject of Church extension, for the hon. Baronet had to-night said he would not give sixpence in support of any religion which he did not believe to be true. The hon. Baronet had, therefore, laid it down as a principle that no man should contribute to a church in the doctrines of which he had no belief. The hon. Member for Kent, had in the mildest manner, and with the meekest spirit, laid down tonight the most intolerant and bigotted principles ever heard in that House within the last few centuries His speech formed a forcible illustration of Byron's lines:—
l.l55l.l."He was the mildest-mannered man afloat That ever scuttled ship or out a throat"Mr. H. G. Ward
 said, if this railway at all partook of the nature of a job, he should agree with the right hon. Baronet; but the right hon. Baronet had himself shown, that no suspicion could attach to the proceedings of the House, if they should consent to make this case an exception to the general rule.The Attorney-general
50Cheers from the Ministerial benchesl.,Ironical cheers from the Ministerial benches49 said, the noble Lord had endeavoured, in this discussion, to raise questions with which, as he conceived, the Government of this country had nothing to do. The Government had no right to think it an open question whether the established religion of this country should be looked upon in the same light as the faith of the Dissenters. The Government was bound to support the religion of the State, and that religion alone which the State recognised as truth. For himself, he never would consent to pay a sixpence for teaching as the word of God what he believed to be contrary to that word. We were living in a Christian land, having the blessing of an Established
50Cheers from the Ministerial benchesl.,Ironical cheers from the Ministerial benches49Sir Robert Inglis
585756 said, the hon. Gentleman was a correct prophet with respect to the vote he (Sir R. Peel) should give on the present occasion, but the hon. Gentleman was not equally happy in his anticipations as to the speech he (Sir R. Peel) should make. He did not intend to rebuke those who had proposed and supported the present motion, neither should be express any compunction or regret for the course he was about to take. He was bound to say, that no man at present in this House, or who had ever sat in it, when he did come forward on a public question, was actuated
585756Sir R. Peel
18 concurred with the hon. Gentleman in thinking that it would not be expedient to relax the standing order with respect to contributions of ten per cent. It was necessary that the standing order, if it were to be maintained, should be general in its operation; yet, he confessed, he should be very sorry to see it enforced with respect to the two proposed lines of railway to Dublin and Edinburgh. He thought, however, if they relaxed the standing order in respect of the line of communication between London and Dublin, they would be bound in justice to do the same as regarded the line between London and Edinburgh. These great works would enable the representatives of the other two parts of the United Kingdom to have immediate access to the metropolis. This, however, was a very special case. He could hardly conceive greater public objects of this kind than would be attained by the one railway. He had read the report of the commissioners as to the
18Sir R. Peel
68: It appears to me very difficult to lay down any general rule with
68Sir R. Peel
 explained that he had not meant to say, that it did not signify what was the course of instruction pursued at Maynooth. All he said was, that he did not think himself bound to examine the contents of the books used in the education of persons destined for the Roman Catholic church, as long as he knew them to be the books sanctioned and prescribed by the Roman Catholic authorities. On the contrary, he had said that if any abuses existed, or practices that were contrary to the intentions of the grant, the visitors ought to be appealed to, and after them the Government or the Parliament.Viscount Morpeth
l4847"This I did, sir, without reference to personality, to the political creed of any Member of Parliament, or to any individual candidate for office under the general Government, but as being applicable to all governments and to all politicians who pay no regard to the moral law as the basis of their national constitution, or to the infallible directory of God's word in the choice of their governors, or in the regulating the obedience and submission to which they are entitled from their subjects. Under the same precept of the decalogue, I also debarred all anti-government men —all who would not vote at elections for eligible candidates for office under a scripturally constituted civil government.""I did, therefore, debar from a seat at the table of the Lord, all voters at elections for candidates for office under un-scripturally constituted systems of civil government. And, as an illustration of the anti-scriptural basis of the British Constitution, I instanced the provision which, by its law enacted, was made for the maintenance and propagation of Popery in the British colonies.""I debar from this holy table (both doctrinally and officially) all those who, at elections, give their votes in favour of the candidate who supports an anti-Christian Government—a Government that has ever been the patronisers of Popery and idolatry throughout the British colonies."4645"The instruction given in the divinity classes generally at Maynooth, we are assured, does not differ materially from that given in the university of Paris. The discipline maintained in the college is stated to differ very little from that which is observed in other institutions for the education of the Roman Catholic clergy."4443 said, that there were two points from which the vote now complained of might be viewed. The first was the principle of the grant itself, and the second the mode in which this grant was administered. The hon. Member who had just sat down had taken both grounds of objection; he objected to the mode of instruction adopted in the college, to the books read there, and to the conduct of the clergymen who issued from its walls.
l4847"This I did, sir, without reference to personality, to the political creed of any Member of Parliament, or to any individual candidate for office under the general Government, but as being applicable to all governments and to all politicians who pay no regard to the moral law as the basis of their national constitution, or to the infallible directory of God's word in the choice of their governors, or in the regulating the obedience and submission to which they are entitled from their subjects. Under the same precept of the decalogue, I also debarred all anti-government men —all who would not vote at elections for eligible candidates for office under a scripturally constituted civil government.""I did, therefore, debar from a seat at the table of the Lord, all voters at elections for candidates for office under un-scripturally constituted systems of civil government. And, as an illustration of the anti-scriptural basis of the British Constitution, I instanced the provision which, by its law enacted, was made for the maintenance and propagation of Popery in the British colonies.""I debar from this holy table (both doctrinally and officially) all those who, at elections, give their votes in favour of the candidate who supports an anti-Christian Government—a Government that has ever been the patronisers of Popery and idolatry throughout the British colonies."4645"The instruction given in the divinity classes generally at Maynooth, we are assured, does not differ materially from that given in the university of Paris. The discipline maintained in the college is stated to differ very little from that which is observed in other institutions for the education of the Roman Catholic clergy."4443Viscount Morpeth
 wished to know what was to be done with old houses. He, for one, would not like to pull down his house.Mr. Williams
ss81Walker's Mercantile Chart80Takes half his worth away.""The day that makes a man a slave,79ss78llssddd77dd said, he felt himself called on, in answer to invitations he had received from many quarters, to make again an attempt to bring forward the subject of the Sugar Duties, although he should put the motion in another shape from that into which he had last year thrown it. The price of sugar did not much affect the rich, but it was a subject which came home to the business and bosoms of the poor. Now, the foreign artisan paid but 4½ss81Walker's Mercantile Chart80Takes half his worth away.""The day that makes a man a slave,79ss78llssddd77ddMr. Ewart
8382ssssad valoremdslssl seconded the motion. He was convinced that the time was now arrived, when both as regarded the consumption of the country and the benefit of the revenue, the prohibitory duty on the importation of foreign sugar ought to be removed. The duty paid annually on the importation of sugar for home consumption amounted to 4,600,0008382ssssad valoremdslsslMr. Thornley
8887868584 was sure the committee would feel that the hon. Member for Wigan, (Mr. Ewart) need not have commenced his speech by making any apology for bringing a question of this sort before the House. Whether regarded in a financial, a commercial, or a colonial point of view, the question was one of such great importance as to render it at all times an extremely proper subject to be discussed in that branch of the Legislature. He must also admit, that there were circumstances connected with the subject—circumstances which had led numerous bodies of persons interested in the great branches of trade to petition Parliament, which at the present moment rendered it natural and proper, even more than at any other lime, that the question should be seriously considered by the House of Commons. For his own part, although he was not prepared to come to the conclusion to which his hon. Friend invited him, he rejoiced that the attention of the House, and through the House the attention of the country, should be called to this subject, because he believed that, in many respects, a very mistaken idea prevailed regarding the duties on sugar and the effect produced by them. He was not at all disposed to deny that the present state of things with regard to the sugar trade could not be looked upon without concern and apprehension. In point of fact, a great revolution had been effected in that trade. Until recently, our own colonial possessions produced so much sugar that they were not only able adequately and completely to supply the market of this country, but to furnish a surplus, which having been refined in England, was subsequently exported for the consumption of other nations. The changes which had lately taken place in the domestic economy of our West India possessions, had un-
8887868584Mr. Labouchere
89 thought that many of the statements and arguments advanced by the right hon. Gentleman ought to have brought him to a different conclusion. He (Mr. Hume) was of opinion that the House had been very culpable for years past in refusing to reduce the duty on foreign sugar, It was originally levied as a
89Mr. Hume
91sssl90 would support the motion, notwithstanding he had voted against the Colonial Passengers' Bill: he saw no inconsistency in doing so; the whole question then was, whether free labour could be introduced into the Mauritius. He had opposed this because he thought, with others, that they needed more information on the subject, and because he was not altogether sure that the class of persons they proposed to introduce were free
91sssl90Mr. Hawes
9594"The quantity shipped of sugar is considerably less than in the corresponding quarters of 1831, 1832, and 1833; it is in hogsheads 2,765 less than the corresponding quarter last year. It is a fact that from the unfavourable season during a portion of the year, the canes have yielded one third less than usual."9392 was the representative of no particular interest, but of 400,000 persons, consumers of the article on which they were debating. The hon. Member for Lambeth, had thought fit to assume an opinion, for the consumers, and further to assume that that opinion was in favour of the present proposition. He doubted this. If the hon. Member could test public opinion on this question, he would find, looking to the consequences of the motion—that even the sense of individual convenience would give way to a great public good. He represented a constituency of 400,000 persons, among whom were some of the great sugar refiners, and as far as interest was concerned, he for his own part was desirous that the whole Community should obtain their sugars at the lowest price. This was especially the interest of the Sugar refiners who had so materially suffered under their recent misfortunes. But he was also the representative of the community of Great Britain, and he was not prepared to say, that considering all the principles which they professed to maintain, and which he thought they would still prefer, they could ever be induced to accede to the present proposition. His hon. Friend thought they would prefer to have their sugar at a lower price to the great object to which they had directed themselves. His opinion was, that they were not actuated by views of lucre alone. He believed that they had higher and superior views. It was impossible to admit foreign sugar free. He would be glad to admit sugar both from Siam and Manilla, but this country was under an obligation which it could not depart from. Were the circumstances such that they ought to admit slave-grown sugar? He admitted that a diminution in the price generally increased
9594"The quantity shipped of sugar is considerably less than in the corresponding quarters of 1831, 1832, and 1833; it is in hogsheads 2,765 less than the corresponding quarter last year. It is a fact that from the unfavourable season during a portion of the year, the canes have yielded one third less than usual."9392Sir S. Lushington
 did not believe that any measure which involved the breach of treaties, and was calculated to perpetuate slavery could be advantageous to the shipping interest, and therefore, however much he might otherwise be disposed to support the hon. Member for Wigan, he could not do so on the present occasion.Mr. A. Chapman
9796 never gave a vote with a greater conviction of its propriety, than the vote he should give against the motion of the hon. Member for Wigan. He thought the motion did not go far enough. The hon. Member ought to bring in a bill to repeal the Slavery Emancipation Act; for if they were to encourage slave-grown sugar, why should they not let their own countrymen have the benefit of it. He was glad the motion had arisen so early, because the people would be prepared to decide whether they preferred dear sugar or slavery. The question now presented itself like the children's fable, "Get a larger loaf and a father's curse." Would they have cheap sugar, and slavery together? If they did not prefer both together, then they would take the chance of dearer sugar with emancipation. There was no disappointment in what had taken place; everybody could foresee that sugar would become dearer after negro emancipation; but was there the least prospect that it would continue dearer? But, mark another gross inconsistency. You send, at a great expense, a naval force to the coast of Africa to watch the transportation of slaves, and if possible to prevent it.
9796Mr. O'Connell
9998 said that he had as little difficulty as the hon. Member for Dublin in coming to a decision upon this question, for it was one of those plain and simple questions which he thought an honest Member of a British constituency ought not to doubt about; for it was one of those questions between the interests of the community at large and a section of it that admitted of no question, and he should take the course he ever had, and ever should upon such occasions, and vote for the community; and it was agreeable to observe that this question was just supported and opposed in the same spirit as all such questions were. He had nothing, therefore, to contend with but all those crooked and contradictory statements which are ever urged, as they ever must be, when they are made against justice and truth, and which he had never seen more completely exemplified than in the present instance; for he asked whether any person could make out what ground it was that the advocates of monopoly, either of the Member for Dublin, or of the Member for the Tower Hamlets, meant to rest their defence; whether they intended to advocate the interests of the planters, or the principles of humanity which had heretofore, he admitted, guided them in their course? for at one moment they told the House of the losses the planters would incur by being exposed to the competition of free labour, repeating in words to the joy of the great array of colonial proprietors opposite, all the very arguments which, for a quarter of a century, have been urged against themselves when pleading for freedom to the negro; and when they have been urging the laws of God, and the rights of man, against an unholy and selfish interest, and which arguments against they have never heeded for an instant; and the next moment they
9998Mr. Villiers
dsds104dd103102101100 said, there were several courses and views which might be taken upon this most important question, which appeared to him to be all equally consistent and intelligible. He could perfectly well understand the course pursued by the hon. Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Hume), who now intended to vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Wigan, although that hon. Member could not fail to see that the effect would be naturally the promotion of the slave trade. But that hon. Member had never been one who made pretensions of sincerity upon the subject of slavery. It was clearly in his recollection, that in the year 1833, at the time the bill for the abolition of slavery had passed through all the preliminary discussions, and had reached to an advanced stage in that House, the hon.
dsds104dd103102101100Mr. W. Gladstone
105 said, that as a Member of Parliament, he had a right to take what views he thought right, without having imputations cast upon him. He had never
105Mr. Hawes
 explained that he had imputed no motive to the hon. Member but what he had contended for was, that the clear effect of the present motion would be to encourage slave labour and the slave trade.Mr. Gladstone
106, in reply, said that Mr. Gladstone had used the term in no very courteous manner, of "sensibility on slavery." He would remind the hon. Member that there were those whose sensibilities were only of recent growth, and conveniently matured in accordance with their own interest and with the maintenance of monopoly. He had rested his motion on two positions; first, that the poor (not the rich who slumbered at their clubs) were the sufferers by the present rate of duty upon sugar; secondly, that free-labour sugar could compete, and successfully compete with, and beat the slave-labour sugar out of the markets of the world. On these two grounds alone he based the motion. It would be found that the sugar, the produce of the free-labour of Java, Siam, and Manilla, had increased more than the produce of slave labour, and he had the best authority for stating that the quality of the sugar produced by free labour had greatly improved, and that although these places were more distant than Cuba or the Brazils, yet the cultivators in Siam and Manilla could afford to take less profits and so compensate for the greater distance. On these facts he was convinced that free labour would triumph over slave labour in the markets of the world. The right hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets in opposing this motion, seemed to have been borne away by that impetuous torrent which his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool, when they were not on such
106Mr. Ewart
 said, he should be a sufferer by this bill, but he thought it so desirable the cruelties now practised should be abolished, that he felt it his duty to support it. They were in the habit of seeking for cruelties practised abroad, while it not unfrequently happened that cruelties as great were practised in their own houses. He begged to thank the hon. Gentleman for introducing this bill, and he thought, considering his numerous official occupations, the having done so was very much to his honour.Mr. Heathcote
 thought the bill would be very much deteriorated by the omission of the word.Mr. F. Maule
 opposed the amendment. He thought the clause was necessary to avoid giving magistrates residing without the district of the metropolitan police, undue privileges and influence, within that district.Mr. Fox Maule
109 said, no doubt some in-
109Mr. F. Maule
 said, that the object of the clause was this. Certain rate-payers in one part of a county might agree to adopt the county constabulary force for their own protection, and he thought that it would be unfair to permit the magistrates of another part of the county to come down, and, by their votes, to swamp the rate paying magistrates of the district, in the appointment of the officers under the system. He had introduced the clause for the purpose of protecting the magistracy in the rural parts of the country As, however, Members coming from those districts had objected to it, he was content to withdraw the clause. But if the rural magistracy found themselves swamped by the magistracy in the district of the Metropolitan Police Act, it would be their fault not his.Mr. Fox Maule
 said, he had no notion cruelties so barbarous could be perpetrated in any civilized country as had been recently brought under his notice as perpetrated in relation to the subject of this bill. It was a fact within his own personal knowledge, that at the present moment a child of 4½ years, another at 6, and others of a similar tender age, were employed in sweeping chimneys. The fact, also, that twenty-three climbing boys were now confined for various offences in Newgate, was sufficient to prove the bad moral effects of the system.Lord Ashley
 happened to be one of the unfortunate individuals who possessed the one chimney out of 2,000, but still he was not prepared to oppose the motion.Mr. Goulburn
 begged to point out the invidious position in which those counties which were specified were placed. He thought that the provision should be made general.Sir James Graham
 suggested, that the words "shall, if practicable, be" should be added after the words "rebuilt."The Attorney-General
 agreed with the principle of the clause.Mr. J. Jervis
 believed that of old chimneys, not one in 2,000 but could be swept by machines.Sir R. Inglis
 brought up the report of the Weaver Churches Bill.Sir C. Lemon
113l. said it was quite certain that if the public had been aware of the object of the bill, or if the investigation before the committee had been publicly reported and circulated, great opposition would have been made to the measure. This was not a mere private bill; the principle involved in it was most important. The question was whether that which had for years contributed 1,500113l.Mr. J. Jervis
 opposed the amendments, and he did so because he did not think that money should be raised on a whole county for the purpose of giving additional church accommodation to a particular district. He looked upon such a principle as a dangerous one, and as interfering with the rights of property.Mr. Wilbraham
 was not only opposed to the measure, but had a strong feeling against the whole system of taxation followed by the trustees; and he hoped the county would soon be released from it.Mr. Thornely
 asked, whether those Gentlemen who were favourable to the measure would support the principle that county-rates formed a proper fund for the building of churches? That was the real principle then at issue.Mr. Hume
 said, that the money in question could not be considered as a county-rate. The hon. Member for Kilkenny was therefore mistaken on that point.Mr. Tatton Egerton
 said, that if this bill were carried into a law, every dock, railway, and other public company might be called upon to contribute to similar purposes out of its surplus income.Mr. Warburton
 said, that the principle had already been admitted by the Legislature, in the case of a Mining Company, that where a large population was collected in one district, by means of such a company, the latter was bound to provide for the religious instruction of that population out of its surplus income.Viscount Sandon
 hoped the Church of England would not continue to proceed upon the engrossing principle supported by the promoters of this bill. If so, the Church itself would be most seriously damaged.Sir C. Grey
 objected to the measure, because it was injurious to the Church itself, and would set against it a large body of the community.Mr. Ewart
 said, that the question in the present case was whether the funds intended for the Weaver Churches were to be devoted to an entirely different purpose. He would venture to say, if the present bill passed that the worst consequences would result; he, therefore, called upon the House to meet the bill with the most determined opposition. He recollected that a bill was introduced into the House for a purpose somewhat analogous to the present. The fund was left for the building of a bridge over the river Dee. That fund produced an enormous surplus; and it was not known in what manner the superfluous money should be applied. Under these circumstances the trustees came to Parliament, and applied for power to appropriate the funds to the establishment of schools, for the object of building the bridge over the river Dee was to promote civilization of the Highlands. That was a most excellent purpose, and strictly analogous to the intention of the original donor. But Parliament did not allow that bill to pass. The trusts were held so sacred, that it was thought they ought not to be violated, and although every one confessed the purpose was excellent, yet that bill was rejected upon the principle on which he hoped the House would reject the present bill. The rate-payers of Chester had a right to the whole of the surplus funds if there were any. They ought to be applied by the magistrates in quarter sessions to certain specified purposes, and to no other purpose whatever. He objected to the application of the fund for the purposes of church building. The fund ought to be devoted, in the first place, to the purposes of navigation; and in the second place, to the relief of the rate-payers of Chester. It was proved that there were eighteen churches along the line of the river, a distance of only twenty-three miles, and that the population was fluctuating, and contained a great many Dissenters. For the sake of the great principle, he trusted they would give their determined opposition to the bill in all its stages.Mr. Hobhouse
118 opposed the clause providing that the expenses incurred by the opposers of the bill should be paid by the promoters of it. If such a principle
118Mr. Cholmondeley
bonâ fidebonâ fidel.119 said, that as the amendment of which his hon. Friend complained had been introduced by himself, probably the House would accord to him its indulgence while he made a few observations; In the first place he thought he had some reason to complain of the course which the hon. Gentleman had adopted. It was not usual he believed to make such motion on bringing up the report. In private business, the course was to bring up clauses or to move amendments on the third reading of the bill, and it was the ordinary course in the House and out of the House, when one hon. Member intended to wove an amendment, to give notice of it. No notice had been given of the motion that had just been made. That was a very good reason for his pressing on the hon. Member to adjourn the discussion till another evening. He would ask the House if they could be safely guided by the hon. Member, when he stated that the object of the amendment was to make the promoters of the bill pay the costs of the opposition to it, and that he had taken advantage of an accidental majority to introduce this amendment in Committee. If such were the object of the amendment, hon. Members would be perfectly right in voting against it. But such was not the case. The object of the amendment was this. Certain trustees of the River Weaver, amounting to about 105 of the landed gentlemen of Cheshire, who were utterly unconnected with the navigation of the Weaver and the salt-works, wished in fact to impose a tax of 20 per cent, on this navigation. Some of those gentlemen, constituting the majority, came to the House to get a bill enabling them to build and endow churches out of the tolls of the river Weaver, and introduced a clause that the expenses of passing the bill should be paid out of the surplus fund of the river
bonâ fidebonâ fidel.119Mr. J. Jervis
 said, that he was not a member of the committee which had sent in the bill, and he had taken no part in reference to it, except by having before voted in favour of the second reading, and being then favourable to the amendment introduced by the committee. If, however, any hon. Gentleman supposed that the slightest attempt had been made to take him by surprise in any way—although he believed that the regular notice had been given at the Private Bill Office, and though the Members of the committee had been duly informed on the subject—if any hon. Member could say that he was taken by surprise by the amendment, he should advise his hon. Friend near him—strong as he must be in the justice of his cause—to accede at once to the suggestion made by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, that the further consideration of the question should be adjourned till another day. He was not disinterested in the matter, as he was anxious that the House should immediately proceed to important public business. He would, therefore, propose to his hon. Friend that the question should be postponed.Lord Stanley
123122l.l.121 felt it to be a deep sense of duty with him to offer a few observations to the House upon this very important subject. He had read the bill of the noble Lord, and also that of the Solicitor-general for Ireland, with great care, and he was sure it was impossible for any one who dispassionately looked into them, not to see that one was drawn up with a view to afford every facility to the claimant, while the other was framed to afford every facility to the objector. Now, if the intention of the noble Lord was to deal fairly with the subject, and he did not at all doubt the noble Lord's assurance that such was his disposition, why, he would ask, was there so great a difference between the two bills? What was the cause of the great difference if the framers of both bills had the same purpose in view? The ambiguity of the franchise constituted the great ground of difficulty. There were hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House, who entertained the same opinion as to the difficulty of defining what the franchise really was. Both, however, differed in the interpretation of.
123122l.l.121Mr. Slaney
124 said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down had stated, that he approached the question without any party bias. If to sustain the franchise of Ireland was a party question, he would acknowledge himself a party man, and he wished he could imitate the temper and tone of the hon. Member who had just spoken. He did not, however, mean to quarrel with the arrangements which had been made, or to press immediately upon the House the consideration of defining the franchise, either as to what it was, or what it should be. When he came down to the House, the impression on his mind was, to obtain from the House a declaration upon that subject; and if he did not press it, then it was owing to the rational and conciliatory observations made by the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, and the good sense which pervaded his views with regard to the definition of the franchise. It was in the hope that what had fallen from that hon. Member would sink into the minds of hon. Members on the opposite side of the House, that he did not press the definition of the franchise as an instruction to the committee. It amounted to a perfect absurdity, and contrary to common sense, to proceed with this bill in its present state. The House was called upon to form a registry, and to settle a mode of registration, without determining what was to be registered. They were called upon to decide upon the form, without determining to what that form should be applied. In his opinion, the House should begin with the beginning, and that was, to ascertain what was to be the Irish franchise. When that was settled, no difficulty could exist as to the fair mode of carrying the principle into effect. Was the House aware that there
124Mr. O'Connell
125 said, that with respect to this clause, which opened the question of substituting annual registration for the system at present existing, it was his intention to object, and to endeavour to induce
125Viscount Morpeth
 could not object to the noble Lord taking what course he thought proper, but he considered annual registration to be an important feature of his bill; and if the noble Lord succeeded in the quarterly registration, he would consider it so direct a condemnation of his own bill, that he would not give the noble Lord or the House any additional trouble. The principle of quarterly registration was so inconsistent with the terms of his bill that he should not be justified in persevering, and he was ready to meet the noble Lord upon the point at once.Lord Stanley
 said, that he could not allow this clause to pass without making several amendments. The noble Lord must be aware that he would raise eight or ten questions upon the clause. He was ready to take up the debate upon the words "in any year."Mr. O'Connell
 said, that he was there to defend his bill against all the objections which could be urged against it, and would give way when the objections were reasonable.Lord Stanley
 said, that a change of residence vitiated the vote in Ireland, whereas in England permanency was not required, provided the value was retained. The bill of the noble Lord would exact from the claimant not only the previous residence of a year, but in many cases a person occupying premises would not be entitled to vote in fifteen, seventeen, eighteen, and twenty-three months from the time of his occupation. Whereas, by the existing law, the time at the utmost from which an occupying tenant could be excluded was twelve months.Mr. O'Connell
126"Provided also that where any such lands, &c, which would so otherwise entitle the holder, &c, to be registered in any year, shall
126 said, that his bill would give a greater advantage to the Irish voter than the English bill gave to the English voter, and a far greater advantage than the bill of the Solicitor-general for Ireland; for the English bill declared, that no one should register until he was twelve months in possession, whereas the bill which he introduced with regard to Irish registration did not exact a residence of twelve months to be placed upon the register. The words were—
126"Provided also that where any such lands, &c, which would so otherwise entitle the holder, &c, to be registered in any year, shall
126Lord Stanley
127 observed, that the noble Lord seemed to think his bill conferred a greater favour on the Irish voter than that of the Solicitor-general, and that if a man came into possession of the property entitling him to the franchise in September or October, the hon. and learned Gentleman's bill would create a delay of more than a twelvemonth before he could vote. But this was impossible; for, by the Solictor-general's bill, it was provided that there should be a registry every four months. The noble Lord said, he did not understand how twenty-three months could interpose under his bill between the tenant coming into possession and his right to exercise the franchise; but if he came in in March, he could not vote until the following October twelvemonths, and then, in case of any mistake arising at the registry, or any other obstacle, he might have his right to vote deferred another six months. He was surprised to hear the noble Lord say that tenants were in the habit of combing into possession in Ireland so late as October, when they would necessarily have to pay rent for a dead half year as it were. The fact was, that tenants almost universally in Ireland came into possession about the month of March. The noble Lord
127Mr. O'Connell
Stanley: said, that the noble Lord seemed to imagine that, in England, in all county qualifications, whether freehold or leasehold, the right to vote was only given by an occupation of twelve months whereas an occupancy of six months only was required by the Act. In England, any man having a freehold occupation for six months before the 20th of July was entitled to vote; and, in Ireland, any man having had a freehold qualification for eleven months three weeks and seven days would be prevented by the bill of the noble Lord. [Lord Stanley:The Attorney-General
 admitted, and it was quite clear, that, in the ease of only one annual registry being established, it might happen that a person coming into possession at a particular part of the year—immediately after the registry, for instance—would not be able to register so soon as in a case where there would be four registrations in the year. This was in the nature of things, and unavoidable if they were to have an annual registry.Lord Stanley
: The noble Lord, at all events, seems to admit that there will be this inconvenience attending his bill, namely, that a tenant, having come into possession, would have fewer opportunities of being registered under his bill than under the Irish Reform Bill, or the bill of my hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-general. With respect to what the noble Lord says of the English system, if the noble Lord means that the whole of that system should be adopted in Ireland, I can understand it to be a fair proposition. But when he professedly proposes to cause delay in the registration of Irish voters, and tells us that that delay is the same to which we are subject in England, then I say that the noble Lord gives to Ireland nothing, but that which constitutes any hardship there is in the English measure. He gives to Ireland every disadvantage connected with the Irish system, and every English disadvantage into the bargain.Lord J. Russell
128 did not at all understand that this bill took all that was bad in the English law and gave it to Ireland, because by the English law there must be a twelve-month's possession, whereas this bill gave the title to vole after a six month's possession. He was not disputing the benefit of a quarterly court of registration, but at
128Sir E. Sugden
 thought they were discussing a question not then immediately before the House, viz., the time of possession which should entitle a man to register his vote. The hon. Gentleman then read a clause in the English Act, showing that a freeholder in England was entitled to register after a six months' occupation from the 20th of July, and said that, considering that an Irish leaseholder was the same thing almost as an English freeholder, he thought the noble Lord's bill placed the former in a worst position than the latter.Mr. C. Wood
 observed, that every Irish voter, under the present system, must be six months in possession before the registry, and six months also after the registry, before he was entitled to vote, making in all twelve months; whereas the noble Lord's bill gave him the right to vote, after he should have been twelve months in possession, even if he should not have registered exactly as now required.Mr. Shaw
 thought that much of this unnecessary discussion arose from the want of perspicuity in the mode in which this clause was drawn. He thought it would be much better that the noble Lord should insert "six" instead of "twelve'' months for the present, in this clause, and take the discussion on the clause in that shape afterwards, when the other amendments respecting it should have been disposed of—(at least so we understood the hon. Baronet's proposition).Sir G. Grey
129 said, that he would at once tell his hon. Friend what had been his object in drawing the clause in the manner he had done. He did desire, when the registry was made, that that registry, and that only, should be conclusive as to the right of the party to vote; and therefore it was that, instead of providing for a twelvemonth's previous possession, he proposed a six month's possession, and that the party should not be entitled to vote until six months after his name had been registered.
129Lord Stanley
 said, it was manifest that, instead of removing, the noble Lord was only increasing the difficulties; because, without a special registry, it was impossible that the noble Lord's intention could be carried into effect. No general rule could be laid down under the noble Lord's Bill, and the result would be, that at least half of the parties entitled to claim would be left in uncertainty as to the time when they could register. Their title to register, too, must be ascertained by establishing a preliminary fact which would tend to litigation, and this was enough for him to object to the proposition of the noble Lord. He would ask whether any one could, under this bill, vote unless he could show a twelvemonth's occupation? Yet the noble Lord talked of doing a favour, while, in point of fact, he was inflicting an injury on the Irish constituency, by taking away rights which they possessed under the existing law.Mr. O'Connell
 thought that a party in possession of a freehold qualification ought to be entitled to register and vote at any time. He could not see any object to be gained by prolonging the time.Lord Clements
 said, it appeared to him strange that the noble Lord had not thought of placing the Irish freeholders on the same footing as the English. That was what the noble Lord should have done. He trusted that the amendment would be adopted by the Committee, and in that case he meant to propose, that the proviso should extend to leaseholders and householders as well as freeholders.Mr. Lynch
130 said, as the law stood, a party could not be registered without showing a twelvemonth's previous occupation, but he found he was in error in not referring to the difference in the law between England and Ireland with regard to freehold rights. In England a six months' possession conferred the right, and in Ireland it did not; but he could only say, that if the House wished to place the law of both countries on the same footing, he should not object to it, provided the alter-
130Lord Stanley
 said, that as the law stood, occupation for twelve months before the registry was sufficient; but what did the noble Lord require? Why, he required a six months' occupation before the 20th of July. He seemed, however, to forget that the registry did not take place until September or October, and that if a party could not vote for six months after he was registered, he must in effect have a thirteen months' occupation. Suppose, for instance, a party came into possession of a qualification in January, he would be entitled to register in July; but not being able to register then, nor until September or October, and having to wait six months from thence before he could vote, it was clear that the time would be extended long beyond twelve months.Mr. Sheil
—The right hon. and learned Gentleman has taken a case, and he says, that if a voter be in possession of his qualification in January, he cannot vote under my noble Friend's bill, for six months after he has registered. Now, this is not the fact, because I am prepared to show that the voter under this bill will be entitled to vote precisely as he would under the existing law. The time of his occupation will appear on the registry, and consequently if he have been in possession nine months at the period he is registered, he will be entitled to vote in three months from that day.Sir R. Peel
 said, that although the right hon. Baronet seemed to give a triumphant answer to the objection of his right hon. and learned Friend, he had forgotten that if a party came into possession on the 21st of January, he would not be entitled to register on the 20th of July. Now, what would be the consequence of this law? Why, that he could not vote for seventeen months after that period.Viscount Morpeth
 said, that although they had been favoured with six speeches, he thought it had been agreed that the words "six months" should be substituted for "twelve." If so, where was the good of so much discussion?Mr. C. Buller
 said, he was now quite ready to raise the question with respect to annual or quarterly registrations, and he would move that the words "his registry" be inserted, instead of the words "the 20th of July," with which it was proposed to fill up the blank in the clause.Viscount Morpeth
 thought the noble Lord had not treated him fairly by not having given him notice of the amendment which he intended to propose. The noble Lord ought to know that in carrying a bill of this kind, it was impossible at a moment to see the effect of an amendment: but he absolved the noble Lord from all blame, because it was now evident that he had not himself the least idea of the effect of his amendment. It was quite obvious to the House, from his consultation with the noble Lord the Sscretary for the Colonies, and the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor-general, that the noble Lord had not made up his mind to the last moment as to what he was going to propose. The object of the noble Lord, it was clear, was, not to amend the clause, but to mangle the bill, and he was only sorry, that the noble Lord was not now prepared to carry his intentions into effect.Lord Stanley
in toto.: The noble Lord has exhibited a happy specimen of the temper in which he proposes to carry on the discussions on this bill from the commencement, but I shall not attempt to retaliate. I shall remind the House, and not the noble Lord, that I stated, when we first came to consider the clause, that I thought it would be convenient to discuss the question of annual registration before we proceeded further, as I objected to the clause in toto.Viscount Morpeth
132 would support quarterly registrations, although he should like annual registrations if they were practicable. He feared the only effect which the noble Lord's bill could produce was that of throwing fresh difficulties in the way of rightful claimants. Why should the claimant to vote be sent before judges
132Mr. Slaney
bona fide said, that if there were any provision in the bill the effect of which would be to place an unfair restriction upon the man who honestly sought to establish his vote from a bona fideMr. Ingham
bona fide133bona fide regretted that his noble Friend did not state more fully the ground of his amendment. Before he voted he trusted the House would permit him to make one or two observations with respect to his views of the subject. It appeared to him that the claimants to register ought to be afforded every possible facility for obtaining the right to vote which the law intended they should possess. But the greatest care ought to be taken that none but those who had a real and bona fide133bona fideViscount Howick
136135134 wished to direct the attention of the House to the difference between his bill and the bill of the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire. The bill which he brought in proposed to leave the law with respect to registration as it stood at present. Abuses had been alleged to arise from the system of registry which at present prevailed in Ireland. Abuses were admitted to exist from that system which had been in operation in that country for upwards of one hundred years. It had occurred under that system that persons in some cases remained on the registry when they ought not so to be placed. His object was to remove those abuses, and that could be attained solely by revision, for there was no necessary connection between the admission of votes and the removal from the list of names which ought not to be there. The noble Lord's bill, however, went further, and, instead of revision, it provided a new system of registration. To that he (Mr. Pigot) objected, for there was no necessity for superadding one upon the other; and if he could show to the House a system which would leave
136135134Mr. Pigot
l.bonâ fide137bonâ fide concurred with his learned Friend in the opinion that alterations ought not to be made without absolute necessity; he only wished that this rule had been more generally acted upon in later times. He thought it desirable also that all facilities should be given to the l.bonâ fide137bonâ fideMr. Sergeant Jackson
141140l.139138 did not mean to follow the learned Gentleman into his legal argument; he could dispose of it in a few words. The registry in Ireland was under the Reform Act. The value was to be taken under that act, and it must be admitted that the beneficial interest was the value. The judges had it was said, decided the point, but no appeal was given by the Reform Act to the judges. The judges of Ireland had met, they had excluded counsel, they might have consulted to satisfy themselves; but was he to be
141140l.139138Mr. O'Connell
143l.142 said, that there was one point which had been adverted to, not belonging exactly to this clause, by the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, but he might be permitted to say a word upon a point of fact. There was a difference of opinion upon this subject. Hon. Gentlemen said, that the opinion of the judges was conclusive. Two of them said it was not. He was informed at least, that two of the judges differed upon the point. Let them see what followed. If there was to be an appeal to the judge of assize, the judge going the circuit would be watched, and the decisions would depend upon the mere accident of the judge's opinion. The consequence would be, that great differences would be found to be created in the system of registration. The minority of the judges, it was said, held themselves to be bound by the opinion of the majority. It was not so. There was no Act of Parliament to compel them to
143l.142Mr. Sheil
146l.primâ facie"That any person whose name shall have been omitted from any register of voters in consequence of the decision of the assistant-barrister, who shall have revised and signed the lists from which such register shall have been formed, and who shall have appealed against such decision, which appeal shall be at the time of such election pending and undecided, may tender his vote at any election at which such register shall be in force, stating at the time the name or names of the candidate or candidates for whom he tenders such vote, and the returning officer or his deputy shall enter upon the poll-book every vote so tendered, distinguishing the same from the votes admitted and allowed at such election, but he shall not include the votes of such persons in casting up the number of votes as they appear upon the several poll books, for the purpose of making the return.""Look at the advantage of the quarterly over an annual registration. Suppose I come forward in July, 1842, and suppose I seek to register and be rejected in September, and I appeal against the decision, that appeal can-not come on till the month of March; whereas formerly persons applying to register in the January following, might have an appeal decided in March following."145ad nauseam144 said, that as it seemed to be the general understanding of the House, which he was quite willing to agree to, that on the question of retaining the 20th of July in the clause should virtually depend the question of the annual or quarterly registration, he rose to say, without going further, that he should not feel he was dealing fairly with the Committee if he did not state, that on the decision of this question depended the possibility of his continuing the bill before the House. If the House should think, that the quarterly was better than the annual system of registration, then they would show, that they preferred the bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman, as regarded an enactment so incompatible with the principles of his, and with the machinery which he had provided for carrying out those principles, that he should not feel himself justified if he were further to waste the time of the House. The hon and learned Solicitor-general had gone through a history of what had been the state of Ireland, and the system of registration in use there from the beginning of the last century down to the present time. He (Lord Stanley) would not follow the hon. and learned Gentleman through that history, but when the hon. and learned Gentleman concluded by saying, that he had advised, that in the Reform Bill a quarterly registration should
146l.primâ facie"That any person whose name shall have been omitted from any register of voters in consequence of the decision of the assistant-barrister, who shall have revised and signed the lists from which such register shall have been formed, and who shall have appealed against such decision, which appeal shall be at the time of such election pending and undecided, may tender his vote at any election at which such register shall be in force, stating at the time the name or names of the candidate or candidates for whom he tenders such vote, and the returning officer or his deputy shall enter upon the poll-book every vote so tendered, distinguishing the same from the votes admitted and allowed at such election, but he shall not include the votes of such persons in casting up the number of votes as they appear upon the several poll books, for the purpose of making the return.""Look at the advantage of the quarterly over an annual registration. Suppose I come forward in July, 1842, and suppose I seek to register and be rejected in September, and I appeal against the decision, that appeal can-not come on till the month of March; whereas formerly persons applying to register in the January following, might have an appeal decided in March following."145ad nauseam144Lord Stanley
l.: I stated that the 50l.Mr. Sheil
150primâ facie149"No objector shall come forward; votes shall be put upon the register upon such examination as they shall obtain in the first instance, and, being so put on the register,
149148"No person shall be objected to that has not been more than one year on the registry."147l.l. was quite sure that the hon. Gentleman had mistaken the provisions of the bill. The 50150primâ facie149"No objector shall come forward; votes shall be put upon the register upon such examination as they shall obtain in the first instance, and, being so put on the register,
149148"No person shall be objected to that has not been more than one year on the registry."147l.l.Lord Stanley
154153s.152151 said, the noble Lord had at last allowed the question to be raised as to his bill on the point of annual or quarterly registration. The noble Lord in the course of his observations had adverted to the principal provisions of the measure of his hon. and learned Friend; he thought, on a fair comparison of the measure of his hon. Friend with that of the noble Lord, that he should not be at a loss to make out good and substantial reasons for the preference of the measure of his hon. Friend. But he was content to deal with the measure absolutely before them, and should be happy on a future occasion, when the bill of his hon. Friend was in Committee, to go into it. In the course of the discussion on the bill of the noble Lord many harsh epithets had been used. He trusted the noble Lord opposite would believe, that no such language was intended to be applied by him to the noble Lord. He admitted at once that no harsh or ungracious epithets could fairly be applied to the clause now under discussion or to the principle which it involved—namely, that of annual registration. Because, as the noble Lord had reminded the Committee, and as he had expected to be reminded by the noble Lord, the Government, in bringing in bills on the subject now under consideration every year previous to the present year, when they had departed from that practice, had adopted the principle of annual registration, and consequently, so far, to supersede the practice of quarterly registration. The present Chief Baron Woulfe, when he, as Attorney-general for Ireland, introduced
154153s.152151Viscount Morpeth
159 said, that although it was rather earlier than the House, when in
159Lord Stanley
 observed, that as he perceived the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies was anxiously expecting him to say something on the present occasion, he felt it his duty not to disappoint the noble Lord or the House. He would, however, be very brief. He wished simply to observe, that the noble Lord would be acting with more decency in the eyes of the country, if, after the repeated defeats which he had recently sustained in that House, and seeing how futile it was for him to attempt any longer to conduct the affairs of the country—that it would be much more decent for him at once to resign. If the noble Lord possessed not a political virtue, let him for once in his life assume it.Colonel Sibthorp
194 said, that the House ought to have the evidence before them. He had carefully attended to that evidence, and the result was, that he did not consider there was any want of spiritual accommo-
194Mr. Hobhouse
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, representing that this House, before proceeding to pass any bill for the regulation of cathedral establishments, desires to receive further information as to the duties and general purposes, which are contemplated by the statutes of the respective foundations, and which the capitular clergy, in conformity therewith, may beneficially discharge; and humbly praying, that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to authorise and direct the visitors of the cathedral and collegiate churches respectively, and the bishops of the dioceses wherein they are situate, after consultation with the members of their several chapters, to lay before her Majesty such plans as may in their judgments be best calculated to render each of those churches, ' most conducive to the efficiency of the Established Church,' and to 'providing for the cure of souls.'"198 said, it was with diffidence he rose to move an amendment to the motion. He was bound to acknowledge the authority of the bill, recommended as it was by a commission appointed by one Government and continued by another. Nevertheless, the numerous representations that had been made against the measure were at least entitled to attention and respect. The chapters had almost unanimously protested against the bill, not from interested motives, for they had offered to give up a part of their revenues, but from objections they conscientiously entertained. They objected to the accumulation of the funds of the different chapters into one fund, and it should be remembered, that those chapters were in fact corporations, under the existing law, as much as any municipal corporation. Another objection was, that they conceived the dignities ought to be retained, even if the revenues were taken away. The practice of every profession showed the necessity for honorary distinction. It was also objected to the bill, that it contained nothing as to the duties of these chapters. Now, as ancient institutions, they ought either to be let alone altogether, or, if dealt with at all, substantial duties should be given to their new existence. The chapters had lately exerted themselves very much to meet the growing desire for Church instruction, and schools
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, representing that this House, before proceeding to pass any bill for the regulation of cathedral establishments, desires to receive further information as to the duties and general purposes, which are contemplated by the statutes of the respective foundations, and which the capitular clergy, in conformity therewith, may beneficially discharge; and humbly praying, that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to authorise and direct the visitors of the cathedral and collegiate churches respectively, and the bishops of the dioceses wherein they are situate, after consultation with the members of their several chapters, to lay before her Majesty such plans as may in their judgments be best calculated to render each of those churches, ' most conducive to the efficiency of the Established Church,' and to 'providing for the cure of souls.'"198Mr. Pusey
200199: I am sorry that the hon. Gentleman has throught proper to make this proposition to the House, as it is one which might be expected to emanate from a Member less sincere upon the subject than the hon. Member himself. I cannot imagine that any other object is sought by the motion than delay, and there does not appear to me to be any reason assigned why the House should not proceed with this bill. The commission appointed to consider this subject was appointed by the advice of the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) in 1835. That commission comprised the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Archbishop of York, the Bishop of London, with other eminent prelates, together with persons holding the highest official dignity, all of them fully qualified for the task, to which they devoted much time and attention. The commissioners made their report on the 24th June, 1836, now little more than four years ago, which report was immediately laid upon the table of the House, and I brought in a bill founded upon that report. In the course of last year, some grave and some lively and facetious pamphlets were written upon the subject, and a committee of persons connected with the different cathedrals having sat during the last Session, it was the opinion of certain members of the church commission, that if that committee had more
200199Lord John Russell
bonâ fide203l.s.l.202201 thought that there certainly was room for further inquiry; thirteen visitors of cathedrals had protested petitions against the bill, and though the Primate and the. Bishop of London had declared in its favour, yet there was reason to believe that two-thirds of the other Bishops were opposed to its provisions. If episcopal authority were quoted on the one side, laymen might on the other side shelter themselves under the authority of thirteen visitors of cathedrals. In addition to this, the two universities had protested against it, and it was well known that they were extremely cautious in taking a step of that nature; moreover, there were numerous petitions in every year since the subject had been introduced. No one who had paid the least attention to the subject could, for a moment, doubt that it was one which had never yet been fully or fairly brought under the consideration of Parliament. The noble Lord opposite had quoted the authority of the hon. Member for Tamworth, but the measure was in no degree his; the right hon. Gentleman had done nothing more than appoint a commission. It was not to be denied that the purpose of that commission was to increase provision for the cure of souls, but the fact that several of the chapters were the owners of impropriate tithes formed no reason why the funds for increasing that provision should be derived from them, for the Bishops received as great an amount of impropriate tithes as the chapter. He would not say, let the chapters be maintained as they are now, without any change; but, let them not be suppressed for the sake of obtaining the revenues they possessed. The chapters were bound to augment the livings that were connected with them, and were responsible for providing spiritual instruction for all persons who were within the limits of their spiritual authority; for were they unwilling to admit that respon-
bonâ fide203l.s.l.202201Mr. Acland
l.205204, after acknowledging the learning and ability displayed by his hon. Friend, said he could not vote for the proposed resolution, because he saw no advantage likely to result from delaying dis-
l.205204Mr. Goulburn
214213l.à fortiori212211210209208207206 would state at the outset, that he, for one, gave the noble Lord credit for having approached this subject with an earnest desire to arrive at a satisfactory settlement of this question, and a sincere wish for the welfare of the Church. He entertained the same opinion with respect to the noble Lords and hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House, with whom he had the misfortune in some degree to differ. For the individuals comprising the commission, he felt the highest respect, but when he was pressed with the authority of the commissioners, he asked by what authority their recommendations were supported? If he was told, that as a churchman, he ought to defer to them, he assented, but in a question of this kind he thought he was bound to look to the Bishops of the Church. He believed, that he was correct in stating, that the Primate of England and the Bishop of London were the two individuals most responsible for the provisions of this bill. There were five Bishops in the commission, but of them it was pretty well understood that three (either with reference to the abstract prin-
214213l.à fortiori212211210209208207206Mr. Gladstone
218217216215limine: I must ask for the indulgence of the House for a few moments. The hon. Member who made the motion which we are now discussing, having made but a few remarks, I will merely allude to that part of them which bears on the amount of information which has been laid before the House. As so many eloquent speeches have been made, and as the hon. Member for Somersetshire and the hon. Member for Newark have unfolded plans which had not been before explained, I trust that the House will allow me to trouble them with a few observations. Both those hon. Gentlemen have expressed the same objection to my plan, and that was, that it would be an interference with the rights of property, and a diversion of that property from the purposes for which it was originally intended. The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down would permit of the appropriation of cathedral funds according to a plan of his own. Let it be remembered that, with respect to the original intentions of the founders, the doctrines they intended to promote are not our doctrines. We must therefore construe their intentions in the large sense of a desire to promote generally the religious instruction and education of the people. If, therefore, we are to deviate from the original intention which the hon. Gentleman himself admits, let that deviation be with due reference to the changed circumstances in which we are placed, and let us apply these funds, as nearly as we can, in the enlarged spirit of the founders, to provide for the necessities which this change has created. Having disposed of this, which would be an objection, in 218217216215limineLord J. Russell
 thought the noble Lord had misconceived the object of his hon. Friend. The cathedral revenues were incompetent to provide for the spiritual destitution existing amongst the dense mass of the population, whereas they might be competent to supply the deficiency amongst that population more immediately connected with the cathedrals; but it would not do more, let the Church do all it could. He was glad that the Church should set the example, but, that having been done, let the country supply the deficiency. The difference between those on his side of the House and the noble Lord was only as to the mode of doing what was required. The means which the noble Lord adopted, however, would alter the character of the ecclesiastical institutions of the country, and tend to lower those establishments in the eyes of those for whose direction they were especially constituted.Sir T. D. Acland
 thought it would be impossible to carry this bill into effect without literally seizing upon the whole of the property of the Church, and, if this was consented to, it was impossible to say how soon they might be called upon to give up their own properties.Mr. G. Palmer
 proposed that five canonries should be allowed to the cathedral of Durham instead of four, for the purpose of providing for the archdeaconry of Northumberland, which had no provision.Mr. Liddell
 said the great object was to apply as much of those funds as possible to the spiritual instruction of the people. He trusted the noble Lord below him (Lord John Russell) would not agree to the proposition of the hon. Member opposite.Mr. Lambton
 was in favour of the amendment of the hon. Member.Viscount Dungannon
 stated that he intended to introduce a separate clause respecting Winchester, as it was his desire to annex an archdeaconry of Surrey to a stall at Winchester.Lord J. Russell
 then moved as an amendment, that six canonries should be given to Canterbury instead of four, as provided by the clause.Viscount Dungannon
 trusted that his noble Friend would accede to the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Exeter.Sir C. Lemon
197 said, that the proposition made to the House was the admission of free labour from the East Indies to the Mauritius. The House decided against that proposition, but, as he understood, on the ground that they had not sufficient
197Lord John Russell
 was also of opinion, that the evidence ought to be laid before the House.Lord R. Grosvenor
 then moved as an amendment, that the minutes of the evidence taken before the committee be laid before the House. There never was an occasion in which such a measure as this now before the House was less called for. The great body of the population for whose accommodation the churches in question were intended, were Dissenters, extremely attached to their peculiar mode of worship and to their own ministers. As far as there was any want of accommodation for religious worship and instruction according to the Church of England, it could be adequately supplied by voluntary contribution.Mr. Wilbraham
 said, he felt bound to oppose this bill in every way that the rules of the House permitted. It was a bill that had for its object a most unjustifiable diversion of the funds of the county of Chester. The surplus revenue derived from the tolls of the Weaver navigation had for many years relieved the county of Chester from the payment of rates, and he considered it most unjust, that this revenue should now, without any reason whatever, be diverted to a totally different object.Mr. G. Wilbraham
 said, that in the last stage of the bill it would be recollected the House refused to reduce the duty on foreign sugar, and on the preceding evening the House refused to permit the passage of free labourers from Bengal and other parts of the East Indies to the Mauritius; since that time the price of sugar had risen very considerably, and it was likely to rise higher still, in consequence of the deficient supply. What he wished, therefore, to know was, whether it was the intention of the noble Lord to take any steps to insure a supply of free labour in those colonies, on which the supply of sugar depended?Mr. Hume
 said a great deal of spiritual destitution and ignorance prevailed in the district, and there were two fanatical women who were followed by large numbers of the ignorant and uneducated classes. The question was whether they would endow these women, or was the Established Church to be endowed?Sir C. Lemon
 believed the amendment had merely been moved for the sake of delay, and therefore he should oppose it.Sir P. Egerton
 was surprised at the opposition given to the bill, though he was opposed to the clause.Sir R. Inglis
 said he had expected that some one on that (the Ministerial side of the House) would have stated his views in opposition to the hon. Baronet's motion. He had listened with great attention to the hon. Baronet's speech, and certainly if no answer were attempted to that speech he should feel it his duty to vote for the motion with which it had concluded. He considered he had an important duty to perform. He belonged to the established religion, and should be anxious to see it prosper; but, at the same time, he did not forget that he sat in that House the representative of a constituency, the majority of which were of another persuasion, and if in the part he then took he was displeasing his constituents, he should have no hesitation in resigning the seat in which their confidence had placed him.Mr. Villiers Stuart
l.l.,l.353l.352 could not allow this question to go to a division without protesting against the speech of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford. It was a speech that had two faults—it was skulking on the one hand, and a-dacious on the other. Skulking, because the hon. Baronet had not the boldness to tell the House fairly how much he wanted. On the other hand, he thought it a bold proposition for any one of the persuasions of this country—he would not say ''sect," for the hon. Baronet said, that that term, as applied to the Established Church, was disrespectful—it was a bold proposition, he thought, that any one of the religious persuasions of this country should come out upon the rest of the community, and insist upon having an undefined sum of the public money for their own especial benefit. Such a proposition was the bolder coming from a Churchman, seeing that the whole of the nation, at the time of the Reformation was abundantly churched. The law changed, and gave the temporalities of the previously existing Church to the present Establishment. At that time they were told upon good authority that the number of churches in the kingdom was so great as to be scarcely credible. The present Establishment having let most of them go to ruin, now came forward and complained of their own default. It might be as the hon. Baronet had stated, that the population had increased since; but the value of tithes had also increased, and more land was brought into cultivation. So that if the population had increased, the wealth of the Church had increased in an equal ratio.
l.l.,l.353l.352Mr. O'Connell
358357l.l.l.,356355 intended to say a few words before he gave his vote. He understood the whole question to be, whether it were advisable, in that House, to go into a Committee of the whole House on a future day, for the purpose of addressing the Crown and declaring their readiness to grant money—to make a considerable grant, he supposed, after the statement that the hon. Baronet had made in proposing his motion—for the purpose of supplying the deficiency said to exist in the means of the Church of England. The question, then, to be considered was, whether the mode proposed by the hon. Baronet to remedy the deficiency was a good mode, or whether there was not some other mode by which they should seek, in the first place, to supply the deficiency. With respect to the first, it could hardly be doubted, after what had been said in the country, and after what had been stated in that House to-night, that considering, in the first place, the necessities of the State, which required an additional burthen being placed on the people—that an increase of the public burthens, for the purpose of adding to the means of the Church, would excite very considerable dissatisfaction. He did not think that,
358357l.l.l.,356355Lord John Russell
354, as the only one of the sixteen representatives of the metropolitan districts who was likely to support the motion, hoped to be heard for a few moments. He could say, that in Marylebone, where there were 153,000 inhabitants, there was only church room for 20,793, and in the dissenting chapels for
354Lord Teignmouth
351l.l.,350"And one of the first steps taken by Sir Robert Peel's administration was to issue a commission for the purpose of ascertaining whether by deducting from the wealth of the larger livings, and adding to the poorer, the Church might not be placed in the position of being much more available for the instruction of the poorer classes of society than it was at present.""He shared this opinion in common with those of every class in society.""He thought that pluralities should be reformed, and that the wealth of the Church ought to be appropriated to raise the income of the poor clergy, instead of being devoted to purposes comparatively useless." (He added,)"As to the wealth of the Church, it is appropriated to any other purpose than that of promoting its best interests."349348l.l.l.l.l.l;.l.l.l.,347£2,000,000Annual Expense
£2,000,000Annual Expense800,000l.Expenses of upholding worship, charitable donations, missionary contributions, theological academies, &c., 100l.
800,000l.Expenses of upholding worship, charitable donations, missionary contributions, theological academies, &c., 100l.1,200,000l.Support of 8000 ministers, at 150l.
1,200,000l.Support of 8000 ministers, at 150l.£8,000,000l.8,000 chapels, at 1000l.
£8,000,000l.8,000 chapels, at 1000l.
£2,000,000Annual Expense
£2,000,000Annual Expense800,000l.Expenses of upholding worship, charitable donations, missionary contributions, theological academies, &c., 100l.
800,000l.Expenses of upholding worship, charitable donations, missionary contributions, theological academies, &c., 100l.1,200,000l.Support of 8000 ministers, at 150l.
1,200,000l.Support of 8000 ministers, at 150l.£8,000,000l.8,000 chapels, at 1000l.
£8,000,000l.8,000 chapels, at 1000l.l.8,072
8,072640Welsh Methodists
640Welsh Methodists130Calvinist Methodists
130Calvinist Methodists3,720Wesleyan and other Methodists
3,720Wesleyan and other Methodists3,582Total of the three denominations
3,582Total of the three denominations62Presbyterians
62Presbyterians1,460Baptists
1,460Baptists2,060Congregationalists or Independents
2,060Congregationalists or Independents
8,072
8,072640Welsh Methodists
640Welsh Methodists130Calvinist Methodists
130Calvinist Methodists3,720Wesleyan and other Methodists
3,720Wesleyan and other Methodists3,582Total of the three denominations
3,582Total of the three denominations62Presbyterians
62Presbyterians1,460Baptists
1,460Baptists2,060Congregationalists or Independents
2,060Congregationalists or Independents3461,530,000Ditto in dissenting and other chapels, not of the Establishment
1,530,000Ditto in dissenting and other chapels, not of the Establishment1,730,000Accommodation in these churches, & c
1,730,000Accommodation in these churches, & c4,900 dissenting places, probably including licensed rooms.
4,900 dissenting places, probably including licensed rooms.4,200 churches and chapels of the Establishment in 246 unions.
4,200 churches and chapels of the Establishment in 246 unions.RETURNS MADE TO THE POOR-LAW COMMISSIONERS.
RETURNS MADE TO THE POOR-LAW COMMISSIONERS.
1,530,000Ditto in dissenting and other chapels, not of the Establishment
1,530,000Ditto in dissenting and other chapels, not of the Establishment1,730,000Accommodation in these churches, & c
1,730,000Accommodation in these churches, & c4,900 dissenting places, probably including licensed rooms.
4,900 dissenting places, probably including licensed rooms.4,200 churches and chapels of the Establishment in 246 unions.
4,200 churches and chapels of the Establishment in 246 unions.RETURNS MADE TO THE POOR-LAW COMMISSIONERS.
RETURNS MADE TO THE POOR-LAW COMMISSIONERS.do.12,10141 Sunday-schools, not of the Establishment, giving instruction to
do.12,10141 Sunday-schools, not of the Establishment, giving instruction toscholars.4,565There were 15 Sunday-schools of the Establishment, giving instruction to
scholars.4,565There were 15 Sunday-schools of the Establishment, giving instruction to
do.12,10141 Sunday-schools, not of the Establishment, giving instruction to
do.12,10141 Sunday-schools, not of the Establishment, giving instruction toscholars.4,565There were 15 Sunday-schools of the Establishment, giving instruction to
scholars.4,565There were 15 Sunday-schools of the Establishment, giving instruction to54,700
54,700do.31,10064 chapels, not of the Establishment, with accommodation for
do.31,10064 chapels, not of the Establishment, with accommodation forpersons.23,60017 churches and chapels of the Establishment, with accommodation for
persons.23,60017 churches and chapels of the Establishment, with accommodation forIn the diocese of Lichfield and Coventry.
In the diocese of Lichfield and Coventry.BIRMINGHAM,
BIRMINGHAM,
54,700
54,700do.31,10064 chapels, not of the Establishment, with accommodation for
do.31,10064 chapels, not of the Establishment, with accommodation forpersons.23,60017 churches and chapels of the Establishment, with accommodation for
persons.23,60017 churches and chapels of the Establishment, with accommodation forIn the diocese of Lichfield and Coventry.
In the diocese of Lichfield and Coventry.BIRMINGHAM,
BIRMINGHAM,Population, 55,680
Population, 55,68012,000And the Dissenting chapels
12,000And the Dissenting chapels5,800The five churches estimated to contain
5,800The five churches estimated to contain23Dissenting Places
23Dissenting Places5Churches
5ChurchesRETURN MADE BY THE TOWN-CLERK TO PARLIAMENT.
RETURN MADE BY THE TOWN-CLERK TO PARLIAMENT.NOTTINGHAM,
NOTTINGHAM,
Population, 55,680
Population, 55,68012,000And the Dissenting chapels
12,000And the Dissenting chapels5,800The five churches estimated to contain
5,800The five churches estimated to contain23Dissenting Places
23Dissenting Places5Churches
5ChurchesRETURN MADE BY THE TOWN-CLERK TO PARLIAMENT.
RETURN MADE BY THE TOWN-CLERK TO PARLIAMENT.NOTTINGHAM,
NOTTINGHAM,Population, 71,720
Population, 71,72034,46530
34,465301,0804Handsworth
1,0804Handsworth16,0958Attercliffe and Brightside
16,0958Attercliffe and Brightside3,52018In Sheffield
3,52018In SheffieldDissenting Places.
Dissenting Places.13,77010
13,770106001Handsworth
6001Handsworth2,0001Attercliffe and Brightside
2,0001Attercliffe and Brightside11,1708In Sheffield
11,1708In SheffieldAccommodation.Churches.
Accommodation.Churches.
Population, 71,720
Population, 71,72034,46530
34,465301,0804Handsworth
1,0804Handsworth16,0958Attercliffe and Brightside
16,0958Attercliffe and Brightside3,52018In Sheffield
3,52018In SheffieldDissenting Places.
Dissenting Places.13,77010
13,770106001Handsworth
6001Handsworth2,0001Attercliffe and Brightside
2,0001Attercliffe and Brightside11,1708In Sheffield
11,1708In SheffieldAccommodation.Churches.
Accommodation.Churches.345Church and chapel accommodation from the returns made by the clerks of the Poor-law union in 1838:—
Church and chapel accommodation from the returns made by the clerks of the Poor-law union in 1838:—SHEFFIELD.
SHEFFIELD.
Church and chapel accommodation from the returns made by the clerks of the Poor-law union in 1838:—
Church and chapel accommodation from the returns made by the clerks of the Poor-law union in 1838:—SHEFFIELD.
SHEFFIELD.39,731
39,73129,496
29,4962,6965Miscellaneous
2,6965Miscellaneous4,9809Methodists not Wesleyan
4,9809Methodists not Wesleyan11,1607Wesleyan Methodist
11,1607Wesleyan Methodist1,6302Catholic
1,6302Catholic6,0306Independent chapels
6,0306Independent chapels13,3259Churches
13,3259ChurchesAccommodation.
Accommodation.LEEDS—(Town.)
LEEDS—(Town.)
39,731
39,73129,496
29,4962,6965Miscellaneous
2,6965Miscellaneous4,9809Methodists not Wesleyan
4,9809Methodists not Wesleyan11,1607Wesleyan Methodist
11,1607Wesleyan Methodist1,6302Catholic
1,6302Catholic6,0306Independent chapels
6,0306Independent chapels13,3259Churches
13,3259ChurchesAccommodation.
Accommodation.LEEDS—(Town.)
LEEDS—(Town.)33,196
33,19622,90961 schools not of the Established Church
22,90961 schools not of the Established Church10,28725 schools of the Established Church
10,28725 schools of the Established ChurchScholars.
Scholars.Sunday schools in the borough of Manchester.
Sunday schools in the borough of Manchester.76,700
76,70043,70071 chapels not of the Establishment for
43,70071 chapels not of the Establishment for33,00029 churches and chapels of the Establishment for
33,00029 churches and chapels of the Establishment forAccommodation.
Accommodation.Also in the Diocese of Chester, there was a population of 272,761.
Also in the Diocese of Chester, there was a population of 272,761.IN MANCHESTER AND SALFORD,
IN MANCHESTER AND SALFORD,
33,196
33,19622,90961 schools not of the Established Church
22,90961 schools not of the Established Church10,28725 schools of the Established Church
10,28725 schools of the Established ChurchScholars.
Scholars.Sunday schools in the borough of Manchester.
Sunday schools in the borough of Manchester.76,700
76,70043,70071 chapels not of the Establishment for
43,70071 chapels not of the Establishment for33,00029 churches and chapels of the Establishment for
33,00029 churches and chapels of the Establishment forAccommodation.
Accommodation.Also in the Diocese of Chester, there was a population of 272,761.
Also in the Diocese of Chester, there was a population of 272,761.IN MANCHESTER AND SALFORD,
IN MANCHESTER AND SALFORD,13,000Dissenters, Methodists, and Catholics
13,000Dissenters, Methodists, and Catholics6,000Of the establishment
6,000Of the establishment
13,000Dissenters, Methodists, and Catholics
13,000Dissenters, Methodists, and Catholics6,000Of the establishment
6,000Of the establishment168,175The population was
168,175The population was95,000
95,00050,000
50,00012,000Roman Catholics (communicants)
12,000Roman Catholics (communicants)38,000Dissenting congregations
38,000Dissenting congregations45,000In the churches of the Establishment
45,000In the churches of the EstablishmentThe estimate of average attendance was as follows:—
The estimate of average attendance was as follows:—
168,175The population was
168,175The population was95,000
95,00050,000
50,00012,000Roman Catholics (communicants)
12,000Roman Catholics (communicants)38,000Dissenting congregations
38,000Dissenting congregations45,000In the churches of the Establishment
45,000In the churches of the EstablishmentThe estimate of average attendance was as follows:—
The estimate of average attendance was as follows:—46Other places of worship
46Other places of worship29In the diocese of Chester, the number of episcopal churches and chapels was
29In the diocese of Chester, the number of episcopal churches and chapels wasIN LIVERPOOL,
IN LIVERPOOL,
46Other places of worship
46Other places of worship29In the diocese of Chester, the number of episcopal churches and chapels was
29In the diocese of Chester, the number of episcopal churches and chapels wasIN LIVERPOOL,
IN LIVERPOOL,344195,400Making together, accommodation for
195,400Making together, accommodation for97,700Chapel-accommodation
97,700Chapel-accommodation97,700There was church-room for
97,700There was church-room for816,000Of the thirty-eight districts of Lancashire, in that diocese, with a population of
816,000Of the thirty-eight districts of Lancashire, in that diocese, with a population of
195,400Making together, accommodation for
195,400Making together, accommodation for97,700Chapel-accommodation
97,700Chapel-accommodation97,700There was church-room for
97,700There was church-room for816,000Of the thirty-eight districts of Lancashire, in that diocese, with a population of
816,000Of the thirty-eight districts of Lancashire, in that diocese, with a population of214,003372259,9582551,434,868
214,003372259,9582551,434,86823,4934228,71521154,613Lambeth
23,4934228,71521154,613Lambeth20,5904017,67514134,117Southwark
20,5904017,67514134,117Southwark55,05010643,29938365,836Tower Hamlets
55,05010643,29938365,836Tower Hamlets35,9455739,38236224,839Finsbury
35,9455739,38236224,839Finsbury25,5424243,70334240,294Marylebone
25,5424243,70334240,294Marylebone21,1193839,66837202,460City of Westminst.
21,1193839,66837202,460City of Westminst.31,8144747,62475122,700City of London
31,8144747,62475122,700City of LondonSittings.No.Sittings.No.
Sittings.No.Sittings.No.Non-conformist Chapels.Churches, &c., of Establishment.Population.DISTRICT.
Non-conformist Chapels.Churches, &c., of Establishment.Population.DISTRICT.
214,003372259,9582551,434,868
214,003372259,9582551,434,86823,4934228,71521154,613Lambeth
23,4934228,71521154,613Lambeth20,5904017,67514134,117Southwark
20,5904017,67514134,117Southwark55,05010643,29938365,836Tower Hamlets
55,05010643,29938365,836Tower Hamlets35,9455739,38236224,839Finsbury
35,9455739,38236224,839Finsbury25,5424243,70334240,294Marylebone
25,5424243,70334240,294Marylebone21,1193839,66837202,460City of Westminst.
21,1193839,66837202,460City of Westminst.31,8144747,62475122,700City of London
31,8144747,62475122,700City of LondonSittings.No.Sittings.No.
Sittings.No.Sittings.No.Non-conformist Chapels.Churches, &c., of Establishment.Population.DISTRICT.
Non-conformist Chapels.Churches, &c., of Establishment.Population.DISTRICT.473,961
473,961214,003372 Chapels, accommodation
214,003372 Chapels, accommodation259,958255 Churches, accommodation
259,958255 Churches, accommodation
473,961
473,961214,003372 Chapels, accommodation
214,003372 Chapels, accommodation259,958255 Churches, accommodation
259,958255 Churches, accommodationCongregational Magazine,253,364
253,364126,682Chapel accommodation for 
126,682Chapel accommodation for 126,682Church accommodation for
126,682Church accommodation for
253,364
253,364126,682Chapel accommodation for 
126,682Chapel accommodation for 126,682Church accommodation for
126,682Church accommodation for343"In the diocese of Lichfield and Coventry there are sixteen parishes or districts, each having a population of above 10,000, the aggregate being 235,000; with church-room for about 29,000, the proportion varying from one-sixth to one-fourteenth.""In the diocese of York there are twenty parishes, or districts, each with a population exceeding 10,000, and with an aggregate of 402,000; while the church accommodation is for 48,000, the proportion varying from one-sixth to one-thirtieth."In the diocese of Chester there are thirty-eight parishes, or districts in Lancashire, each with a population exceeding 10,000, containing an aggregate of 816,000 souls, with church-room for 97,700, or about one-eighth, the proportion varying in the different parishes from one-sixth to one twenty-third."Thirty-four parishes with a population of 1,137,000, while there is church-room only for 101,682; or, if we allow 25,000 for the number of sittings in proprietary chapels, the amount will be but 126,682."It is not necessary in this report to enter into all the details by which the truth of this assertion might be proved. Looking to those parishes only which contain each a population of 10,000, we find that in London and its suburbs, including the parishes on either bank of the Thames, there are—"The most prominent, however (say the Commissioners), of the defects which cripple the energies of the Established Church, and circumscribe its usefulness, is the want of churches and ministers in the large and populous districts of the kingdom. The growth of the population has been so rapid, as to outrun the means possessed by the Establishment, of meeting its spiritual wants, and the result has been, that a vast proportion of the people are left destitute of the opportunities of public worship and Christian instruction, even when every allowance is made for the exertions of those religious bodies which are not in connection with the Established Church.342 said, he did not rise to oppose church extension, but he wished the House to know what was the nature of the alleged destitution; and, also to know what was the appropriate remedy which hon. Members opposite might with justice propose. The hon. Baronet appeared to found his case upon the reports of the church commissioners. He thought there was some reason to complain of that foundation, at the same time that the report which he then held in his hand contained a very accurate condensation of the main facts upon which the question depended. It had been stated in that report that the quantity of church accommodation in the and its suburbs, including the thirty-four metropolis, so far from being sufficient for the whole population, was not sufficient for one-tenth of the people. He should
351l.l.,350"And one of the first steps taken by Sir Robert Peel's administration was to issue a commission for the purpose of ascertaining whether by deducting from the wealth of the larger livings, and adding to the poorer, the Church might not be placed in the position of being much more available for the instruction of the poorer classes of society than it was at present.""He shared this opinion in common with those of every class in society.""He thought that pluralities should be reformed, and that the wealth of the Church ought to be appropriated to raise the income of the poor clergy, instead of being devoted to purposes comparatively useless." (He added,)"As to the wealth of the Church, it is appropriated to any other purpose than that of promoting its best interests."349348l.l.l.l.l.l;.l.l.l.,347£2,000,000Annual Expense
£2,000,000Annual Expense800,000l.Expenses of upholding worship, charitable donations, missionary contributions, theological academies, &c., 100l.
800,000l.Expenses of upholding worship, charitable donations, missionary contributions, theological academies, &c., 100l.1,200,000l.Support of 8000 ministers, at 150l.
1,200,000l.Support of 8000 ministers, at 150l.£8,000,000l.8,000 chapels, at 1000l.
£8,000,000l.8,000 chapels, at 1000l.
£2,000,000Annual Expense
£2,000,000Annual Expense800,000l.Expenses of upholding worship, charitable donations, missionary contributions, theological academies, &c., 100l.
800,000l.Expenses of upholding worship, charitable donations, missionary contributions, theological academies, &c., 100l.1,200,000l.Support of 8000 ministers, at 150l.
1,200,000l.Support of 8000 ministers, at 150l.£8,000,000l.8,000 chapels, at 1000l.
£8,000,000l.8,000 chapels, at 1000l.l.8,072
8,072640Welsh Methodists
640Welsh Methodists130Calvinist Methodists
130Calvinist Methodists3,720Wesleyan and other Methodists
3,720Wesleyan and other Methodists3,582Total of the three denominations
3,582Total of the three denominations62Presbyterians
62Presbyterians1,460Baptists
1,460Baptists2,060Congregationalists or Independents
2,060Congregationalists or Independents
8,072
8,072640Welsh Methodists
640Welsh Methodists130Calvinist Methodists
130Calvinist Methodists3,720Wesleyan and other Methodists
3,720Wesleyan and other Methodists3,582Total of the three denominations
3,582Total of the three denominations62Presbyterians
62Presbyterians1,460Baptists
1,460Baptists2,060Congregationalists or Independents
2,060Congregationalists or Independents3461,530,000Ditto in dissenting and other chapels, not of the Establishment
1,530,000Ditto in dissenting and other chapels, not of the Establishment1,730,000Accommodation in these churches, & c
1,730,000Accommodation in these churches, & c4,900 dissenting places, probably including licensed rooms.
4,900 dissenting places, probably including licensed rooms.4,200 churches and chapels of the Establishment in 246 unions.
4,200 churches and chapels of the Establishment in 246 unions.RETURNS MADE TO THE POOR-LAW COMMISSIONERS.
RETURNS MADE TO THE POOR-LAW COMMISSIONERS.
1,530,000Ditto in dissenting and other chapels, not of the Establishment
1,530,000Ditto in dissenting and other chapels, not of the Establishment1,730,000Accommodation in these churches, & c
1,730,000Accommodation in these churches, & c4,900 dissenting places, probably including licensed rooms.
4,900 dissenting places, probably including licensed rooms.4,200 churches and chapels of the Establishment in 246 unions.
4,200 churches and chapels of the Establishment in 246 unions.RETURNS MADE TO THE POOR-LAW COMMISSIONERS.
RETURNS MADE TO THE POOR-LAW COMMISSIONERS.do.12,10141 Sunday-schools, not of the Establishment, giving instruction to
do.12,10141 Sunday-schools, not of the Establishment, giving instruction toscholars.4,565There were 15 Sunday-schools of the Establishment, giving instruction to
scholars.4,565There were 15 Sunday-schools of the Establishment, giving instruction to
do.12,10141 Sunday-schools, not of the Establishment, giving instruction to
do.12,10141 Sunday-schools, not of the Establishment, giving instruction toscholars.4,565There were 15 Sunday-schools of the Establishment, giving instruction to
scholars.4,565There were 15 Sunday-schools of the Establishment, giving instruction to54,700
54,700do.31,10064 chapels, not of the Establishment, with accommodation for
do.31,10064 chapels, not of the Establishment, with accommodation forpersons.23,60017 churches and chapels of the Establishment, with accommodation for
persons.23,60017 churches and chapels of the Establishment, with accommodation forIn the diocese of Lichfield and Coventry.
In the diocese of Lichfield and Coventry.BIRMINGHAM,
BIRMINGHAM,
54,700
54,700do.31,10064 chapels, not of the Establishment, with accommodation for
do.31,10064 chapels, not of the Establishment, with accommodation forpersons.23,60017 churches and chapels of the Establishment, with accommodation for
persons.23,60017 churches and chapels of the Establishment, with accommodation forIn the diocese of Lichfield and Coventry.
In the diocese of Lichfield and Coventry.BIRMINGHAM,
BIRMINGHAM,Population, 55,680
Population, 55,68012,000And the Dissenting chapels
12,000And the Dissenting chapels5,800The five churches estimated to contain
5,800The five churches estimated to contain23Dissenting Places
23Dissenting Places5Churches
5ChurchesRETURN MADE BY THE TOWN-CLERK TO PARLIAMENT.
RETURN MADE BY THE TOWN-CLERK TO PARLIAMENT.NOTTINGHAM,
NOTTINGHAM,
Population, 55,680
Population, 55,68012,000And the Dissenting chapels
12,000And the Dissenting chapels5,800The five churches estimated to contain
5,800The five churches estimated to contain23Dissenting Places
23Dissenting Places5Churches
5ChurchesRETURN MADE BY THE TOWN-CLERK TO PARLIAMENT.
RETURN MADE BY THE TOWN-CLERK TO PARLIAMENT.NOTTINGHAM,
NOTTINGHAM,Population, 71,720
Population, 71,72034,46530
34,465301,0804Handsworth
1,0804Handsworth16,0958Attercliffe and Brightside
16,0958Attercliffe and Brightside3,52018In Sheffield
3,52018In SheffieldDissenting Places.
Dissenting Places.13,77010
13,770106001Handsworth
6001Handsworth2,0001Attercliffe and Brightside
2,0001Attercliffe and Brightside11,1708In Sheffield
11,1708In SheffieldAccommodation.Churches.
Accommodation.Churches.
Population, 71,720
Population, 71,72034,46530
34,465301,0804Handsworth
1,0804Handsworth16,0958Attercliffe and Brightside
16,0958Attercliffe and Brightside3,52018In Sheffield
3,52018In SheffieldDissenting Places.
Dissenting Places.13,77010
13,770106001Handsworth
6001Handsworth2,0001Attercliffe and Brightside
2,0001Attercliffe and Brightside11,1708In Sheffield
11,1708In SheffieldAccommodation.Churches.
Accommodation.Churches.345Church and chapel accommodation from the returns made by the clerks of the Poor-law union in 1838:—
Church and chapel accommodation from the returns made by the clerks of the Poor-law union in 1838:—SHEFFIELD.
SHEFFIELD.
Church and chapel accommodation from the returns made by the clerks of the Poor-law union in 1838:—
Church and chapel accommodation from the returns made by the clerks of the Poor-law union in 1838:—SHEFFIELD.
SHEFFIELD.39,731
39,73129,496
29,4962,6965Miscellaneous
2,6965Miscellaneous4,9809Methodists not Wesleyan
4,9809Methodists not Wesleyan11,1607Wesleyan Methodist
11,1607Wesleyan Methodist1,6302Catholic
1,6302Catholic6,0306Independent chapels
6,0306Independent chapels13,3259Churches
13,3259ChurchesAccommodation.
Accommodation.LEEDS—(Town.)
LEEDS—(Town.)
39,731
39,73129,496
29,4962,6965Miscellaneous
2,6965Miscellaneous4,9809Methodists not Wesleyan
4,9809Methodists not Wesleyan11,1607Wesleyan Methodist
11,1607Wesleyan Methodist1,6302Catholic
1,6302Catholic6,0306Independent chapels
6,0306Independent chapels13,3259Churches
13,3259ChurchesAccommodation.
Accommodation.LEEDS—(Town.)
LEEDS—(Town.)33,196
33,19622,90961 schools not of the Established Church
22,90961 schools not of the Established Church10,28725 schools of the Established Church
10,28725 schools of the Established ChurchScholars.
Scholars.Sunday schools in the borough of Manchester.
Sunday schools in the borough of Manchester.76,700
76,70043,70071 chapels not of the Establishment for
43,70071 chapels not of the Establishment for33,00029 churches and chapels of the Establishment for
33,00029 churches and chapels of the Establishment forAccommodation.
Accommodation.Also in the Diocese of Chester, there was a population of 272,761.
Also in the Diocese of Chester, there was a population of 272,761.IN MANCHESTER AND SALFORD,
IN MANCHESTER AND SALFORD,
33,196
33,19622,90961 schools not of the Established Church
22,90961 schools not of the Established Church10,28725 schools of the Established Church
10,28725 schools of the Established ChurchScholars.
Scholars.Sunday schools in the borough of Manchester.
Sunday schools in the borough of Manchester.76,700
76,70043,70071 chapels not of the Establishment for
43,70071 chapels not of the Establishment for33,00029 churches and chapels of the Establishment for
33,00029 churches and chapels of the Establishment forAccommodation.
Accommodation.Also in the Diocese of Chester, there was a population of 272,761.
Also in the Diocese of Chester, there was a population of 272,761.IN MANCHESTER AND SALFORD,
IN MANCHESTER AND SALFORD,13,000Dissenters, Methodists, and Catholics
13,000Dissenters, Methodists, and Catholics6,000Of the establishment
6,000Of the establishment
13,000Dissenters, Methodists, and Catholics
13,000Dissenters, Methodists, and Catholics6,000Of the establishment
6,000Of the establishment168,175The population was
168,175The population was95,000
95,00050,000
50,00012,000Roman Catholics (communicants)
12,000Roman Catholics (communicants)38,000Dissenting congregations
38,000Dissenting congregations45,000In the churches of the Establishment
45,000In the churches of the EstablishmentThe estimate of average attendance was as follows:—
The estimate of average attendance was as follows:—
168,175The population was
168,175The population was95,000
95,00050,000
50,00012,000Roman Catholics (communicants)
12,000Roman Catholics (communicants)38,000Dissenting congregations
38,000Dissenting congregations45,000In the churches of the Establishment
45,000In the churches of the EstablishmentThe estimate of average attendance was as follows:—
The estimate of average attendance was as follows:—46Other places of worship
46Other places of worship29In the diocese of Chester, the number of episcopal churches and chapels was
29In the diocese of Chester, the number of episcopal churches and chapels wasIN LIVERPOOL,
IN LIVERPOOL,
46Other places of worship
46Other places of worship29In the diocese of Chester, the number of episcopal churches and chapels was
29In the diocese of Chester, the number of episcopal churches and chapels wasIN LIVERPOOL,
IN LIVERPOOL,344195,400Making together, accommodation for
195,400Making together, accommodation for97,700Chapel-accommodation
97,700Chapel-accommodation97,700There was church-room for
97,700There was church-room for816,000Of the thirty-eight districts of Lancashire, in that diocese, with a population of
816,000Of the thirty-eight districts of Lancashire, in that diocese, with a population of
195,400Making together, accommodation for
195,400Making together, accommodation for97,700Chapel-accommodation
97,700Chapel-accommodation97,700There was church-room for
97,700There was church-room for816,000Of the thirty-eight districts of Lancashire, in that diocese, with a population of
816,000Of the thirty-eight districts of Lancashire, in that diocese, with a population of214,003372259,9582551,434,868
214,003372259,9582551,434,86823,4934228,71521154,613Lambeth
23,4934228,71521154,613Lambeth20,5904017,67514134,117Southwark
20,5904017,67514134,117Southwark55,05010643,29938365,836Tower Hamlets
55,05010643,29938365,836Tower Hamlets35,9455739,38236224,839Finsbury
35,9455739,38236224,839Finsbury25,5424243,70334240,294Marylebone
25,5424243,70334240,294Marylebone21,1193839,66837202,460City of Westminst.
21,1193839,66837202,460City of Westminst.31,8144747,62475122,700City of London
31,8144747,62475122,700City of LondonSittings.No.Sittings.No.
Sittings.No.Sittings.No.Non-conformist Chapels.Churches, &c., of Establishment.Population.DISTRICT.
Non-conformist Chapels.Churches, &c., of Establishment.Population.DISTRICT.
214,003372259,9582551,434,868
214,003372259,9582551,434,86823,4934228,71521154,613Lambeth
23,4934228,71521154,613Lambeth20,5904017,67514134,117Southwark
20,5904017,67514134,117Southwark55,05010643,29938365,836Tower Hamlets
55,05010643,29938365,836Tower Hamlets35,9455739,38236224,839Finsbury
35,9455739,38236224,839Finsbury25,5424243,70334240,294Marylebone
25,5424243,70334240,294Marylebone21,1193839,66837202,460City of Westminst.
21,1193839,66837202,460City of Westminst.31,8144747,62475122,700City of London
31,8144747,62475122,700City of LondonSittings.No.Sittings.No.
Sittings.No.Sittings.No.Non-conformist Chapels.Churches, &c., of Establishment.Population.DISTRICT.
Non-conformist Chapels.Churches, &c., of Establishment.Population.DISTRICT.473,961
473,961214,003372 Chapels, accommodation
214,003372 Chapels, accommodation259,958255 Churches, accommodation
259,958255 Churches, accommodation
473,961
473,961214,003372 Chapels, accommodation
214,003372 Chapels, accommodation259,958255 Churches, accommodation
259,958255 Churches, accommodationCongregational Magazine,253,364
253,364126,682Chapel accommodation for 
126,682Chapel accommodation for 126,682Church accommodation for
126,682Church accommodation for
253,364
253,364126,682Chapel accommodation for 
126,682Chapel accommodation for 126,682Church accommodation for
126,682Church accommodation for343"In the diocese of Lichfield and Coventry there are sixteen parishes or districts, each having a population of above 10,000, the aggregate being 235,000; with church-room for about 29,000, the proportion varying from one-sixth to one-fourteenth.""In the diocese of York there are twenty parishes, or districts, each with a population exceeding 10,000, and with an aggregate of 402,000; while the church accommodation is for 48,000, the proportion varying from one-sixth to one-thirtieth."In the diocese of Chester there are thirty-eight parishes, or districts in Lancashire, each with a population exceeding 10,000, containing an aggregate of 816,000 souls, with church-room for 97,700, or about one-eighth, the proportion varying in the different parishes from one-sixth to one twenty-third."Thirty-four parishes with a population of 1,137,000, while there is church-room only for 101,682; or, if we allow 25,000 for the number of sittings in proprietary chapels, the amount will be but 126,682."It is not necessary in this report to enter into all the details by which the truth of this assertion might be proved. Looking to those parishes only which contain each a population of 10,000, we find that in London and its suburbs, including the parishes on either bank of the Thames, there are—"The most prominent, however (say the Commissioners), of the defects which cripple the energies of the Established Church, and circumscribe its usefulness, is the want of churches and ministers in the large and populous districts of the kingdom. The growth of the population has been so rapid, as to outrun the means possessed by the Establishment, of meeting its spiritual wants, and the result has been, that a vast proportion of the people are left destitute of the opportunities of public worship and Christian instruction, even when every allowance is made for the exertions of those religious bodies which are not in connection with the Established Church.342Mr. Baines
333332l.l.331330Inin329328327 proceeded to address the House as follows:—Sir, I waited, for a moment, in the full expectation that the hon. Member for Kilkenny would have risen, according to the usual manner of proceeding, to move the amendment of which he has given notice. From his not having done so, I can only conclude that he has abandoned the intention, convinced by the irresistible arguments of my hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford. I cannot help congratulating the hon. Baronet, whom I am now more proud than ever to call my friend, upon the ability and the truly Christian spirit with which he has pleaded the sacred cause he has taken in hand—in a manner which must have pleased the greater part of his hearers, and can have offended none—in a manner which cannot fail to advance the object he has so much at heart. For my own part, Sir, I shall not trouble the House with many words, but having, on former occasions, demanded sacrifices of the Church, I should be sorry to let it be supposed that I do not, at the same lime, consider the Church entitled to assistance; I thought it right she should set the example—I thought it right she should do what she could out of her own means; but I was always aware that all she could do would be infinitely less than the present occasion requires. Sir, it is
333332l.l.331330Inin329328327Mr. Gally Knight
 would say, as to the Glasgow dissenting churches being in debt, that was to be attributed to their not being able to pay the arrears for which they were responsible and were willing to discharge.Mr. Oswald
341340 said, the question under discussion did not admit of excitement—it was one which ought to be debated in a cool and deliberate manner, and it was for the House in that spirit to decide whether or not the hon. Baronet had not laid before the House a perfectly practical measure. It was impossible for the hon. Baronet to have asked for a money vote, as such a proceeding would have been irregular. The only course open, then, was the one which had been taken. With reference to the allusion to the voluntary system, he was of opinion there were evils in the social system which the voluntary system was totally incompetent to grapple with. The voluntary system did not meet the exigencies of the case. The great defect of the voluntary system was, that when the social system went on from bad to worse, the voluntary took no notice of the occurrence. To meet the existing evil, the
341340Mr. Milnes
l.l.,339l.338l.337l.l.336 said, the complaints which had been made from the other side of the House might be retorted with more than equal force. Up to within the last ten minutes not twenty Members were found upon the opposite benches; and while the hon. Member who had spoken since the hon. Baronet, had dwelt upon the silence on the Ministerial side of the House, and upon the absence of some of the Members of the Government, he had taken care not to notice that neither the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, nor the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, nor the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, had listened for a single instant to the speech of the hon. Baronet. The motion had been considerably varied from the original notice, as he understood it. It was not that honest, straightforward motion which the House had a right to expect. When an individual came forward to read a lecture to the House, to the Government, and to the country, upon certain duties, he ought at least to act up to his own principles. The hon. Baronet ought not only to make out a case of destitution, but he should propose the remedy, and show where were the resources which would enable the House to grapple with the difficulty. But the hon. Baronet had drawn a most fearful picture of the spiritual destitution of the population, and, as he believed had greatly exaggerated that picture; and then he said he would leave the matter in the hands of the Government. The hon. Baronet contented himself with laying down his proposition, but made not the slightest attempt to apply it. The hon. Baronet would not say what should be done, nor would he give the Government the slightest hint as to how they ought to proceed in the matter. Now he contended, that while they were thus called upon to look at the spiritual destitution of the country, they must not forget the poverty and distress, which were still greater. That boundless wealth on which the hon. Baronet had descanted, had long ceased to exist, he feared; but, if riches were still so plentiful in this country, it was desirable that they should be applied to relieve the vast amount of physical misery which existed. But why did not the hon. Baronet state where the means were, and how they were to be got at? He had not even had the honesty to name the sum he wanted. Some of his friends had men-
l.l.,339l.338l.337l.l.336Mr. Ward
the commencement of the present century, and that the rate of this increase is rapidly progressive; that the grants made by the wisdom of Parliament, on the recommendation of the Crown, in 1818 and 1824, have been inadequate to supply the national wants; and that, though private and local liberality has been largely manifested in aid of particular districts, the greatest wants exist where there are the least means to meet and relieve them; to assure her Majesty that this House, feeling that God has intrusted to this nation unexampled resources, is satisfied, that it is the duty of the Government to employ an adequate portion of the wealth of the nation to relieve the spiritual destitution of large masses of the people, by whose labour that wealth has been enlarged; and humbly to represent to her Majesty, that this House will cheerfully make good such measures as her Majesty may be pleased to recommend, in order to provide for her people in England and Wales further and full means of religious worship and instruction in the Established Church,"326**"That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into consideration the deficiency which exists in the number of places of worship belonging to the Established Church when compared with the increased and increasing population of the country, the inadequate provision therein for the accommodation of the poorer classes in large towns, and the insufficient endowment thereof in other places, as such facts have been severally set forth in the Reports of the late Ecclesiastical Commissioners; to assure her Majesty, that this House is deeply impressed with a just sense of the many blessings which this country, by the favour of Divine Providence, has long enjoyed, and with the conviction, that the religious and moral habits of the people are the most sure and firm foundation of national prosperity; to state to her majesty the opinion of this House, that no altered distribution of the revenues of the Established Church could remove the existing and augmenting evil, arising from the notorious fact, that an addition of more than six million souls has been made to the population of England and Wales since*"If obedience to the will of God be necessary to happiness, and knowledge of His will be necessary to obedience, I know not, how he, that withholds this knowledge, or delays it, can be said to love his neighbour as himself, he that voluntarily continues in ignorance is guilty of all the crimes which ignorance produces; as to him that should extinguish the tapers of a lighthouse, might justly be imputed the calamities of shipwreck. Christianity is the highest perfection of humanity; and as no man is good but as he wishes the good of others, no man can be good in the highest degree, who wishes not to others the largest measures of the greatest good. To omit for a year or for a day, the most efficacious method of advancing Christianity, in compliance with any purposes that terminate on this side of the grave, is a crime of which I know not that the world has yet had an example except in the practice of the planters of America, a race of mortals whom, I suppose, no other man wishes to resemble."*325l.l.O'Connell:324323The bulwarks of our land."The glories of our native plains,How beautiful they stand!"These temples of our God"Bid temples worthier of their God ascend:"322"With the right (to repeat the words of the venerable incumbent of Liversedge, whose memorial I have already quoted) to have the doctrines, services, and sacraments of Christ as fully, regularly, and duly administered, as in any parish church in the realm."321***320"In so far as you increase the means of religious instruction throughout the country, (which, hitherto, voluntary efforts have not
320"Great population grown up, to which the Church of England has not the means of bringing her organized instruction.""We have, particularly in the manufacturing districts, very large masses of people, who have grown up in a state of society, which it is both lamentable and appaling to contemplate. They have not grown up amidst the usual concomitants of an ordinary state of society, under the hand of early instruction; with places of worship to attend; with their opinions of property moulded by seeing it devoted to social and charitable objects; and with a fair and gradual subordination of ranks. But it is in many cases a society necessarily composed of the working classes, with a few persons who employ their labour, but with whom they have little other connection; and, unhappily, neither receiving in schools nor in places of worship, that religious and moral instruction, which is necessary to knit together the inhabitants and classes of a great country.""The principle, on which alone they could maintain the Established Church, was that it was for the common good; and that was a principle which entitled them to ask for that burthen to be laid on all. He did not think that those who had to maintain the doctrines of the Church from the pulpits of the Establishment of this country ought to be left to the contributions of the people for their support.""I profess, in the very strongest language which I can use, my resistance to the voluntary principle."319† See Hansard, vol. xi. New Series, p. 359.**"It was his wish that the Established Church should be the predominant one in this country—if they denied to the people the means of attending divine worship according to the practice of the Established Church, how could they expect that the members of the Establishment would continue to increase?""If the fact really was that any deficiency existed in the country in the means of obtaining accommodation far religious worship, he was sure that it was impossible that any hon. Gentleman could be found, who would not assist his Majesty's Government to the utmost of his power in devising a method of supplying that deficiency."*318**"There are hundreds among us, who have made fortunes as manufacturers. How does the case stand with them? They have set up a factory, it may be, in some sequestered spot, where a village has immediately arisen. The population has increased from year to year; the capital of the manufacturer has increased with it; his works have been extended; new labourers have arrived; and, in the evening of his days, he retires with a handsome property, honourably gained; and it is his joy that he owes nothing to any man. But is this indeed the case? He has paid his labourers for their time, and their strength; but how has he remunerated them for their souls? He invited them from their country villages, from their homes, and the church of their fathers; he allured their children from school to his factory; and what has he given them instead? Has he not too often left them in a situation of peculiar danger and temptation; without a church, without a pastor, without a school? Can he acquit himself of having grown rich upon the ruin of immortal souls?"*317"In the neighbourhood of this new church, a gentleman, who discharged the duties of a Christian visitor, and had under his superintendence about thirteen families before the erection of the new church, found, out of the thirteen, three only who were in the habit of attending the public worship of God. Within less than twelve months after the opening of the new church, the proportion was exactly reversed; and at this very moment, out of the thirteen, there are only three who do not attend on the public services of the Church. Though the amount of temporal relief distributed among these thirteen families is now not one-fourth of what it formerly was, yet the visitor is more cheerfully and cordially received than ever he was before."316l.l.l.,"The poor in my neighbourhood are respectful, I had almost said, affectionate. They only want the ministrations of more clergymen. My preaching and presence necessarily create a demand among them for more pastoral instruction."l.l.315l."When he was going the Norfolk circuit in 1832, a magistrate of Suffolk said to him, in the course of a conversation respecting the prisoners for trial, that he could go over the map of the county, and show that there was hardly a prisoner in the calendar, who did not come from a parish without a resident clergyman and resident squire."314"By an examination of our statistics, and of the survey of the parochial agents, we find that in the Goosedubs, Bridegate, Old and New Wynds, Salt-market, Old and New Vennals, Havannah, Dempster-street, and the poor districts of Gorbals and Calton, the people only possess church accommodation in the proportion of 2¼, 2⅝, 5, 8, or 11 in the 100. And, from positive and personal inquiry, we can state, on the authority of the captain of the police and the magistrates on the one hand, and of the governor and chaplain of Bridewell on the other, that nearly all the criminals, who are tried by the one or are immured in the other, come from those very places we have just enumerated, where the people are so destitute of church accommodation; while, from those quarters of the city where the people possess church accommodation in the proportion of fifty, sixty, seventy, or eighty in the hundred, the police-officer has no criminals, and Bridewell has no inmates. These experimental facts clearly indicate the relative power and influence of the fear of God and the fear of man—the instruction of the Church and the coercion of Bridewell—in securing the peace and order of society."l."The truth is, the people will cost us [something], whether we will, or not. If we do not build them churches, we must build them gaols and bridewells. If we will not suffer to be taxed for their religious instruction, we must suffer to be taxed for the punishment and repression of their crimes. From this the Dissenters can no more escape than Churchmen."313312311There are altogether 28,800 cures and ministers. But as, whether there be or be not a minister at the moment to each succursale, a succursale cannot be created, i, e. a commune cannot be erected into a succersale, until a church be built therein, it follows that the number of churches must be equal to the number of cures, and of succursales, together, irrespective of the number of ministers: that is the case: and, consequently, there are 30,000 churches in France. Whether, or not, there be a parsonage house, i. e. presbytère, the commune always provide a dwelling for their priest, either by giving him a house, or by giving him money to procure one.310for the substance of the following note:—The ecclesiastical parishes of France are not exactly analogous to those of England: they follow the judiciary divisions of the country, it being provided, that, for each district comprehended within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, there should be at least one parish. There are at present, in France, cures, 514 of the first, class; 2,786 of the second class, each with a curé. There are 27,300 succursales, (or districts within parishes,—chapelries, as in Halifax, &c.):—but there are not ministers, (Desservans) to more than 25,500 of these: there are therefore 1,800 districts without ministers.Ward:l.309***l.308"The resources, which the Established Church possesses, and which can properly be made available to that purpose, in whatever way they may be husbanded or distributed, are evidently quite inadequate to the exigency of the case; and all that we can hope to do is gradually to diminish the intensity of the evil."307"In the diocese of Chester, there are thirty-eight parishes or districts in Lancashire, each with a population exceeding 10,000, containing
307"The most prominent, however, of those defects which cripple the energies of the Established Church and circumscribe its usefulness, is the want of churches and ministers in the large towns and populous districts of the kingdom. The growth of the population has been so rapid as to outrun the means possessed by the Establishment of meeting its spiritual wants; and the result has been, that a vast proportion of the people are left destitute of the opportunities of public worship and Christian instruction, even when every allowance is made for the exertions of those religious bodies, which are not in connexion with the Established Church. It is not necessary, in this Report, to enter into all the details, by which the truth of this assertion might be proved. It will be sufficient to state the following facts, as examples. Looking to those parishes only which contain each a population exceeding 10,000, we find that in London and its suburbs, including the parishes on either bank of the Thames, there are four parishes or districts, each having a population exceeding 20,000, and containing an aggregate of 166,000 persons, with church room for 8,200 (not quite one-twentieth of the whole), and only eleven clergymen. There are twenty-one others, the aggregate population of which is 739,000, while the church room is for 66,155 (not one-tenth of the whole), and only 45 clergymen. There are nine others, with an aggregate population of 232,000, and church room for 27,327 (not one-eighth of the whole), and only nineteen clergymen. The entire population of these thirty-four parishes amounts to 1,137,000, while there is church room for only 101,682. Supposing that church room is required for one-third, there ought to be sittings for 379,000 persons. There is, therefore, a deficiency of 277,318 sittings; or, if we allow 25,000 for the number of sittings in proprietary chapels, the deficiency will be 252,318. Allowing one church for a population of 3,000, there would be required in these (thirty-four) parishes 379 churches; whereas there are, in fact, only 69, or, if proprietary chapels be added, about 100, leaving a deficiency of 279, while there are only 139 clergymen in a population exceeding 1,000,000."306305304"What, I ask myself, would this country be, if Methodistic piety were now extinguished thoughout its middle and working classes;—if that sense of God, that feeling of inward piety, which raises the soul of humble poverty to a happiness of which mere moral philosophy cannot even catch the idea, were to be swept off and annihilated? Alas! what a precious treasure of heartfelt comfort, of fireside contentment, of steady decent industry, of social virtue, of public order and safety, would go along with it!"303"Now it has been the boast of the Wesleyan methodists" (whom, I, by the bye, desire not to include as Dissenters) "that they are the missionaries of the poor; yet, to borrow his phrase" (referring to another writer) "in this most congenial soil they have only sixteen places of worship, while the Independents and Baptists have sixty-five. But, if the localities of the Independent chapels are marked, their largest and most effective places are not in
303Congregational Magazine,302301Dissent again, from the same hon. Member.Dissent from Mr. Baines.300l.l.,299"An instance of this truly patriotic and benevolent regard to the best interests of the State and of humanity has fallen under my own knowledge, in the example afforded by your Lordship's noble and estimable friend, to whose liberality the counties of Cumberland
299per annum.l."The income of your Memorialist, as a clergyman, for fifteen years, during which he was regularly employed in the Church, had not averaged forty pounds a year. He had neither patrimony nor prospects. He had a taste for education, and devoted himself thereto; but not so as to forget the sacred obligations of his ordination. The neglected state of Liversedge greatly affected his feelings. In 1802 he purchased five acres and a quarter of land as a probable site for a church and appendages. In 1812, being left without any family engagements, he began to build a church upon what he considered the best possible security—an act of the British Parliament. In 1816 a church was consecrated in Liversedge; and, so far as your Memorialist knows, became part and parcel of the National Church Establishment in these realms; with a hundred free sittings for the poor of the township, an acre of ground well fenced in for a cemetery, a right to the inhabitants to marry, baptize, bury, and register; and to have the doctrines, services, and sacraments of Christ, 'as the Lord hath commanded and as this church and realm hath received the same,' as fully, regularly, and duly administered, as in any parish church in the realm,—and under the same jurisdiction; with four acres of land for the use of the incumbent."298l.l.l.297"Never will the impression be erased from my heart, that has been made by beholding those scenes of wide-spreading desolation—The whole country, from Lake Erie to the Gulph of Mexico, is as the valley of the shadow of death. Darkness rests upon it. Only here and there a few rays of gospel light pierce through the awful gloom. This vast country contains more than a million of inhabitants. Their number is every year increased by a mighty flood of emigration. Soon they will be as the sands on the sea shore for multitude. Yet there are at present little more than 100 Presbyterian or Congregational ministers in it. Were these ministers equally distributed throughout the country, there would be only one to every 10,000 people. But now there are districts of country containing from twenty to fifty thousand inhabitants entirely destitute. And how shall they hear without a preacher?"296295l.in aid,294d.s.l.*d.s.l.*l.l.l.l.*l.l.,293l.Western Counties,de arduis negotiis Regni et Ecclesiœ;292291290289Hawes.288An hon. Member:11"1873Dissenting chapels
11"1873Dissenting chapels661124Different churches
661124Different churches81979"Collected at the cathedral
81979"Collected at the cathedrald.d.s.s.£.
d.d.s.s.£.
11"1873Dissenting chapels
11"1873Dissenting chapels661124Different churches
661124Different churches81979"Collected at the cathedral
81979"Collected at the cathedrald.d.s.s.£.
d.d.s.s.£.15 to 1In Bedford
15 to 1In Bedford645 to 51.12 to 1In Exeter, above
645 to 51.12 to 1In Exeter, above161 to 11.15 to 1In Durham, above
161 to 11.15 to 1In Durham, above543 to 18.30 to 1In Gloucester
543 to 18.30 to 1In GloucesterDissenter.16 to 1In Wiltshire, the Churchmen are
Dissenter.16 to 1In Wiltshire, the Churchmen are
15 to 1In Bedford
15 to 1In Bedford645 to 51.12 to 1In Exeter, above
645 to 51.12 to 1In Exeter, above161 to 11.15 to 1In Durham, above
161 to 11.15 to 1In Durham, above543 to 18.30 to 1In Gloucester
543 to 18.30 to 1In GloucesterDissenter.16 to 1In Wiltshire, the Churchmen are
Dissenter.16 to 1In Wiltshire, the Churchmen are287286285**l*284l."It is within the memory of many of us, that, for eleven years, the annual sum of 100,000l.l.283282Hume:281280279278***277276275"I am sorry," he says, "that it is so late, and that the paper is so soiled; but it is the genuine petition of working clothiers in a small village, who left their looms to sign it.""Your petitioners, therefore, hearing that a great many parishes are in want of church-room, and that the inhabitants, if they were able to obtain the money, would either build new churches or enlarge the old ones, humbly entreat that your hon. House would be pleased to take the subject into your consideration, and to adopt such measures as may be sufficient to meet the wants of poor and unprovided parishes."274***273
the commencement of the present century, and that the rate of this increase is rapidly progressive; that the grants made by the wisdom of Parliament, on the recommendation of the Crown, in 1818 and 1824, have been inadequate to supply the national wants; and that, though private and local liberality has been largely manifested in aid of particular districts, the greatest wants exist where there are the least means to meet and relieve them; to assure her Majesty that this House, feeling that God has intrusted to this nation unexampled resources, is satisfied, that it is the duty of the Government to employ an adequate portion of the wealth of the nation to relieve the spiritual destitution of large masses of the people, by whose labour that wealth has been enlarged; and humbly to represent to her Majesty, that this House will cheerfully make good such measures as her Majesty may be pleased to recommend, in order to provide for her people in England and Wales further and full means of religious worship and instruction in the Established Church,"326**"That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into consideration the deficiency which exists in the number of places of worship belonging to the Established Church when compared with the increased and increasing population of the country, the inadequate provision therein for the accommodation of the poorer classes in large towns, and the insufficient endowment thereof in other places, as such facts have been severally set forth in the Reports of the late Ecclesiastical Commissioners; to assure her Majesty, that this House is deeply impressed with a just sense of the many blessings which this country, by the favour of Divine Providence, has long enjoyed, and with the conviction, that the religious and moral habits of the people are the most sure and firm foundation of national prosperity; to state to her majesty the opinion of this House, that no altered distribution of the revenues of the Established Church could remove the existing and augmenting evil, arising from the notorious fact, that an addition of more than six million souls has been made to the population of England and Wales since*"If obedience to the will of God be necessary to happiness, and knowledge of His will be necessary to obedience, I know not, how he, that withholds this knowledge, or delays it, can be said to love his neighbour as himself, he that voluntarily continues in ignorance is guilty of all the crimes which ignorance produces; as to him that should extinguish the tapers of a lighthouse, might justly be imputed the calamities of shipwreck. Christianity is the highest perfection of humanity; and as no man is good but as he wishes the good of others, no man can be good in the highest degree, who wishes not to others the largest measures of the greatest good. To omit for a year or for a day, the most efficacious method of advancing Christianity, in compliance with any purposes that terminate on this side of the grave, is a crime of which I know not that the world has yet had an example except in the practice of the planters of America, a race of mortals whom, I suppose, no other man wishes to resemble."*325l.l.O'Connell:324323The bulwarks of our land."The glories of our native plains,How beautiful they stand!"These temples of our God"Bid temples worthier of their God ascend:"322"With the right (to repeat the words of the venerable incumbent of Liversedge, whose memorial I have already quoted) to have the doctrines, services, and sacraments of Christ as fully, regularly, and duly administered, as in any parish church in the realm."321***320"In so far as you increase the means of religious instruction throughout the country, (which, hitherto, voluntary efforts have not
320"Great population grown up, to which the Church of England has not the means of bringing her organized instruction.""We have, particularly in the manufacturing districts, very large masses of people, who have grown up in a state of society, which it is both lamentable and appaling to contemplate. They have not grown up amidst the usual concomitants of an ordinary state of society, under the hand of early instruction; with places of worship to attend; with their opinions of property moulded by seeing it devoted to social and charitable objects; and with a fair and gradual subordination of ranks. But it is in many cases a society necessarily composed of the working classes, with a few persons who employ their labour, but with whom they have little other connection; and, unhappily, neither receiving in schools nor in places of worship, that religious and moral instruction, which is necessary to knit together the inhabitants and classes of a great country.""The principle, on which alone they could maintain the Established Church, was that it was for the common good; and that was a principle which entitled them to ask for that burthen to be laid on all. He did not think that those who had to maintain the doctrines of the Church from the pulpits of the Establishment of this country ought to be left to the contributions of the people for their support.""I profess, in the very strongest language which I can use, my resistance to the voluntary principle."319† See Hansard, vol. xi. New Series, p. 359.**"It was his wish that the Established Church should be the predominant one in this country—if they denied to the people the means of attending divine worship according to the practice of the Established Church, how could they expect that the members of the Establishment would continue to increase?""If the fact really was that any deficiency existed in the country in the means of obtaining accommodation far religious worship, he was sure that it was impossible that any hon. Gentleman could be found, who would not assist his Majesty's Government to the utmost of his power in devising a method of supplying that deficiency."*318**"There are hundreds among us, who have made fortunes as manufacturers. How does the case stand with them? They have set up a factory, it may be, in some sequestered spot, where a village has immediately arisen. The population has increased from year to year; the capital of the manufacturer has increased with it; his works have been extended; new labourers have arrived; and, in the evening of his days, he retires with a handsome property, honourably gained; and it is his joy that he owes nothing to any man. But is this indeed the case? He has paid his labourers for their time, and their strength; but how has he remunerated them for their souls? He invited them from their country villages, from their homes, and the church of their fathers; he allured their children from school to his factory; and what has he given them instead? Has he not too often left them in a situation of peculiar danger and temptation; without a church, without a pastor, without a school? Can he acquit himself of having grown rich upon the ruin of immortal souls?"*317"In the neighbourhood of this new church, a gentleman, who discharged the duties of a Christian visitor, and had under his superintendence about thirteen families before the erection of the new church, found, out of the thirteen, three only who were in the habit of attending the public worship of God. Within less than twelve months after the opening of the new church, the proportion was exactly reversed; and at this very moment, out of the thirteen, there are only three who do not attend on the public services of the Church. Though the amount of temporal relief distributed among these thirteen families is now not one-fourth of what it formerly was, yet the visitor is more cheerfully and cordially received than ever he was before."316l.l.l.,"The poor in my neighbourhood are respectful, I had almost said, affectionate. They only want the ministrations of more clergymen. My preaching and presence necessarily create a demand among them for more pastoral instruction."l.l.315l."When he was going the Norfolk circuit in 1832, a magistrate of Suffolk said to him, in the course of a conversation respecting the prisoners for trial, that he could go over the map of the county, and show that there was hardly a prisoner in the calendar, who did not come from a parish without a resident clergyman and resident squire."314"By an examination of our statistics, and of the survey of the parochial agents, we find that in the Goosedubs, Bridegate, Old and New Wynds, Salt-market, Old and New Vennals, Havannah, Dempster-street, and the poor districts of Gorbals and Calton, the people only possess church accommodation in the proportion of 2¼, 2⅝, 5, 8, or 11 in the 100. And, from positive and personal inquiry, we can state, on the authority of the captain of the police and the magistrates on the one hand, and of the governor and chaplain of Bridewell on the other, that nearly all the criminals, who are tried by the one or are immured in the other, come from those very places we have just enumerated, where the people are so destitute of church accommodation; while, from those quarters of the city where the people possess church accommodation in the proportion of fifty, sixty, seventy, or eighty in the hundred, the police-officer has no criminals, and Bridewell has no inmates. These experimental facts clearly indicate the relative power and influence of the fear of God and the fear of man—the instruction of the Church and the coercion of Bridewell—in securing the peace and order of society."l."The truth is, the people will cost us [something], whether we will, or not. If we do not build them churches, we must build them gaols and bridewells. If we will not suffer to be taxed for their religious instruction, we must suffer to be taxed for the punishment and repression of their crimes. From this the Dissenters can no more escape than Churchmen."313312311There are altogether 28,800 cures and ministers. But as, whether there be or be not a minister at the moment to each succursale, a succursale cannot be created, i, e. a commune cannot be erected into a succersale, until a church be built therein, it follows that the number of churches must be equal to the number of cures, and of succursales, together, irrespective of the number of ministers: that is the case: and, consequently, there are 30,000 churches in France. Whether, or not, there be a parsonage house, i. e. presbytère, the commune always provide a dwelling for their priest, either by giving him a house, or by giving him money to procure one.310for the substance of the following note:—The ecclesiastical parishes of France are not exactly analogous to those of England: they follow the judiciary divisions of the country, it being provided, that, for each district comprehended within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, there should be at least one parish. There are at present, in France, cures, 514 of the first, class; 2,786 of the second class, each with a curé. There are 27,300 succursales, (or districts within parishes,—chapelries, as in Halifax, &c.):—but there are not ministers, (Desservans) to more than 25,500 of these: there are therefore 1,800 districts without ministers.Ward:l.309***l.308"The resources, which the Established Church possesses, and which can properly be made available to that purpose, in whatever way they may be husbanded or distributed, are evidently quite inadequate to the exigency of the case; and all that we can hope to do is gradually to diminish the intensity of the evil."307"In the diocese of Chester, there are thirty-eight parishes or districts in Lancashire, each with a population exceeding 10,000, containing
307"The most prominent, however, of those defects which cripple the energies of the Established Church and circumscribe its usefulness, is the want of churches and ministers in the large towns and populous districts of the kingdom. The growth of the population has been so rapid as to outrun the means possessed by the Establishment of meeting its spiritual wants; and the result has been, that a vast proportion of the people are left destitute of the opportunities of public worship and Christian instruction, even when every allowance is made for the exertions of those religious bodies, which are not in connexion with the Established Church. It is not necessary, in this Report, to enter into all the details, by which the truth of this assertion might be proved. It will be sufficient to state the following facts, as examples. Looking to those parishes only which contain each a population exceeding 10,000, we find that in London and its suburbs, including the parishes on either bank of the Thames, there are four parishes or districts, each having a population exceeding 20,000, and containing an aggregate of 166,000 persons, with church room for 8,200 (not quite one-twentieth of the whole), and only eleven clergymen. There are twenty-one others, the aggregate population of which is 739,000, while the church room is for 66,155 (not one-tenth of the whole), and only 45 clergymen. There are nine others, with an aggregate population of 232,000, and church room for 27,327 (not one-eighth of the whole), and only nineteen clergymen. The entire population of these thirty-four parishes amounts to 1,137,000, while there is church room for only 101,682. Supposing that church room is required for one-third, there ought to be sittings for 379,000 persons. There is, therefore, a deficiency of 277,318 sittings; or, if we allow 25,000 for the number of sittings in proprietary chapels, the deficiency will be 252,318. Allowing one church for a population of 3,000, there would be required in these (thirty-four) parishes 379 churches; whereas there are, in fact, only 69, or, if proprietary chapels be added, about 100, leaving a deficiency of 279, while there are only 139 clergymen in a population exceeding 1,000,000."306305304"What, I ask myself, would this country be, if Methodistic piety were now extinguished thoughout its middle and working classes;—if that sense of God, that feeling of inward piety, which raises the soul of humble poverty to a happiness of which mere moral philosophy cannot even catch the idea, were to be swept off and annihilated? Alas! what a precious treasure of heartfelt comfort, of fireside contentment, of steady decent industry, of social virtue, of public order and safety, would go along with it!"303"Now it has been the boast of the Wesleyan methodists" (whom, I, by the bye, desire not to include as Dissenters) "that they are the missionaries of the poor; yet, to borrow his phrase" (referring to another writer) "in this most congenial soil they have only sixteen places of worship, while the Independents and Baptists have sixty-five. But, if the localities of the Independent chapels are marked, their largest and most effective places are not in
303Congregational Magazine,302301Dissent again, from the same hon. Member.Dissent from Mr. Baines.300l.l.,299"An instance of this truly patriotic and benevolent regard to the best interests of the State and of humanity has fallen under my own knowledge, in the example afforded by your Lordship's noble and estimable friend, to whose liberality the counties of Cumberland
299per annum.l."The income of your Memorialist, as a clergyman, for fifteen years, during which he was regularly employed in the Church, had not averaged forty pounds a year. He had neither patrimony nor prospects. He had a taste for education, and devoted himself thereto; but not so as to forget the sacred obligations of his ordination. The neglected state of Liversedge greatly affected his feelings. In 1802 he purchased five acres and a quarter of land as a probable site for a church and appendages. In 1812, being left without any family engagements, he began to build a church upon what he considered the best possible security—an act of the British Parliament. In 1816 a church was consecrated in Liversedge; and, so far as your Memorialist knows, became part and parcel of the National Church Establishment in these realms; with a hundred free sittings for the poor of the township, an acre of ground well fenced in for a cemetery, a right to the inhabitants to marry, baptize, bury, and register; and to have the doctrines, services, and sacraments of Christ, 'as the Lord hath commanded and as this church and realm hath received the same,' as fully, regularly, and duly administered, as in any parish church in the realm,—and under the same jurisdiction; with four acres of land for the use of the incumbent."298l.l.l.297"Never will the impression be erased from my heart, that has been made by beholding those scenes of wide-spreading desolation—The whole country, from Lake Erie to the Gulph of Mexico, is as the valley of the shadow of death. Darkness rests upon it. Only here and there a few rays of gospel light pierce through the awful gloom. This vast country contains more than a million of inhabitants. Their number is every year increased by a mighty flood of emigration. Soon they will be as the sands on the sea shore for multitude. Yet there are at present little more than 100 Presbyterian or Congregational ministers in it. Were these ministers equally distributed throughout the country, there would be only one to every 10,000 people. But now there are districts of country containing from twenty to fifty thousand inhabitants entirely destitute. And how shall they hear without a preacher?"296295l.in aid,294d.s.l.*d.s.l.*l.l.l.l.*l.l.,293l.Western Counties,de arduis negotiis Regni et Ecclesiœ;292291290289Hawes.288An hon. Member:11"1873Dissenting chapels
11"1873Dissenting chapels661124Different churches
661124Different churches81979"Collected at the cathedral
81979"Collected at the cathedrald.d.s.s.£.
d.d.s.s.£.
11"1873Dissenting chapels
11"1873Dissenting chapels661124Different churches
661124Different churches81979"Collected at the cathedral
81979"Collected at the cathedrald.d.s.s.£.
d.d.s.s.£.15 to 1In Bedford
15 to 1In Bedford645 to 51.12 to 1In Exeter, above
645 to 51.12 to 1In Exeter, above161 to 11.15 to 1In Durham, above
161 to 11.15 to 1In Durham, above543 to 18.30 to 1In Gloucester
543 to 18.30 to 1In GloucesterDissenter.16 to 1In Wiltshire, the Churchmen are
Dissenter.16 to 1In Wiltshire, the Churchmen are
15 to 1In Bedford
15 to 1In Bedford645 to 51.12 to 1In Exeter, above
645 to 51.12 to 1In Exeter, above161 to 11.15 to 1In Durham, above
161 to 11.15 to 1In Durham, above543 to 18.30 to 1In Gloucester
543 to 18.30 to 1In GloucesterDissenter.16 to 1In Wiltshire, the Churchmen are
Dissenter.16 to 1In Wiltshire, the Churchmen are287286285**l*284l."It is within the memory of many of us, that, for eleven years, the annual sum of 100,000l.l.283282Hume:281280279278***277276275"I am sorry," he says, "that it is so late, and that the paper is so soiled; but it is the genuine petition of working clothiers in a small village, who left their looms to sign it.""Your petitioners, therefore, hearing that a great many parishes are in want of church-room, and that the inhabitants, if they were able to obtain the money, would either build new churches or enlarge the old ones, humbly entreat that your hon. House would be pleased to take the subject into your consideration, and to adopt such measures as may be sufficient to meet the wants of poor and unprovided parishes."274***273Sir R. Inglis
 said it certainly appeared very singular to him that upon so momentous a subject the House should not be favoured with any opinion from any Member of the Government. He thought it was the duty of the noble Lord, who was called the leader of the House—a duty which he owed both to the House and the country—to state his views upon this question, which was one of no common kind. He had been rejoiced to witness the tone of the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. The determination to which that hon. Gentleman had come, showed that, however men might differ on political matters, there were to be found amongst them some—he trusted the number would not prove few—who could unite to promote the means of religion in the country. But while adherents of the Government were thus coming forward, was it possible that the Members of the Government could allow this question to be hurried to a division without uttering one syllable upon it? Was it because the noble Lord had calculated his numbers, and was sure of a triumph? Or was it because he knew that he should be defeated, and therefore did not care to strive against the stream? Or did the noble Lord not think it worth his while to show any sympathy for the Established Church of the land? He was not prepared to see this question so suddenly and hastily brought to a termination, and he must say that he thought the course which had been attempted was highly indecent and thoroughly undeserving a British and a professedly religious House of Commons.Viscount Dungannon
 thought it was quite time the franchise should be defined. Neither judges nor barristers, nor Members of that House, had hitherto been able to agree on a definition. One party called the judges partisans for deciding one way, and another called the people perjurers forswearing another. He trusted, then, that hon. Members would look the question manfully in the face, and, throwing over the petty squabbles of Whigs and Tories, would at last let the Irish people know what amount they were really to register for. With respect to the word's "beneficial interest," the insertion of those words in the Irish Reform Bill, had been the result of an unnatural connection between the right hon. and learned Sergeant opposite, and the hon. and learned Member for the city of Dublin. It was certainly an offspring worthy of such a union. However, he did not think the present the fitting occasion for discussing the meaning of those words, but trusted that on a fitting occasion he should be able to show, that it was full time to define the Irish franchise.Sir D. Norreys
397396395 said, the last word he had heard was something; that diverted somebody or other; but he did not well know what. He had, however, listened to the
397396395Lord Stanley
"That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the state of the river Weaver and Weston canal, and of the quantity and description of traffic thereon; also, of the amount of tonnage collected, and the application thereof, with the view to ascertain what reduction of toll can be made for the benefit of the public, and to report thereon to the House; and that the Weaver Churches Bill be not proceeded with until the Committee has made its report." begged to move the amendment of which he had given notice, namely,
"That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the state of the river Weaver and Weston canal, and of the quantity and description of traffic thereon; also, of the amount of tonnage collected, and the application thereof, with the view to ascertain what reduction of toll can be made for the benefit of the public, and to report thereon to the House; and that the Weaver Churches Bill be not proceeded with until the Committee has made its report."Mr. Thornley
 begged to remind the House, that the tax for navigating this canal and river, about which so much was said, was only a farthing a mile.Mr. T. Egerton
372 said, that this bill involved a principle of the greatest importance to every county in England. He objected to the application of county funds to the building of churches. The Act establishing the canal provided, that the surplus revenue of this navigation should be
372Mr. Hume
 said, that this bill came before the House in the shape of a private bill, but it was a bill involving matter of the greatest public importance. He hoped the House would allow the bill to be referred to a Committee.Mr. Hindley
No, no understood there was a technical objection to his moving the clause of which he had given notice, for the remodelling of the constitution of trustees. Notice of the clause had not been deposited in the Private-bill office. Would the hon. Baronet (Sir P. Egerton) allow the third reading to be adjourned till to-morrow, so as to give an opportunity to deposit notice of the clause. ["No, noMr. J. Jervis
 said, that the course proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Chester was a most unusual one, and he certainly could not accede to the hon. and learned Member's suggestion.Sir P. Egerton
 did not wish to offer any factious opposition to this bill, his only object being to have an opportunity of discussing the clause of which he had given notice, and which he considered to be of great importance. To give him that opportunity, he moved that the House do adjourn.Mr. J. Jervis
 said, that it was the hon. and learned Member's own fault if he had not given due notice. He saw no reason why the bill should be postponed.Mr. T. Egerton
 suggested, that the third reading of the bill should be permitted to take place, and that on the question that the bill do pass, further proceedings should be postponed in order to give his hon. Friend an opportunity of bringing up his clauses.Sir George Grey
373 concurred in the sugges-
373Lord Stanley
"That it be an instruction to the Committee to define the qualification, entitling persons in Ireland to be entered on the registry"382l.381l.l,l.l.,l.l.l.l.datal.l.l.l.,l.380379l.l.l.,l.,l.l.378l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.377aliter dictum,376 rose to move an instruction to the Committee, in order that the franchise might be defined. He said, that they had yet forty-six clauses of the bill before them, and if any amendment was necessary, it was quite impossible that within the space of thirty days the noble Lord could expect to get through with those clauses. The noble Lord had, no doubt, the right to persevere with his bill, bt whether he had used that right dis-
"That it be an instruction to the Committee to define the qualification, entitling persons in Ireland to be entered on the registry"382l.381l.l,l.l.,l.l.l.l.datal.l.l.l.,l.380379l.l.l.,l.,l.l.378l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.377aliter dictum,376Mr. O'Connell
401400399398: I came down to this House this evening like the noble Lord opposite, thinking that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin would move an instruction to the Committee to define municipal taxes and cess, and not to define the franchise. With respect to the course which the hon. and learned Gentleman has taken, I say nothing; he
401400399398Lord John Russell
 observed, that the proposition of those who opposed this instruction was simply this:—that they should at once proceed to provide for the registration of the franchise, without defining what that franchise should be, and at the same time that it must be admitted that the existing law was by no means clear on the subject. He contended that the definition of the franchise was absolutely necessary, in order to ensure the due working of any measure of registration. The noble Lord having introduced the Reform Act, by which the franchise was left in this uncertain and unsatisfactory state, it was doubly incumbent on him to accede to a proposal to define it. It was argued on the other side that the law was clearly enough laid down at present, there being ten to two of the judges in favour of one particular view. But Sergeant Green and Sergeant Moore, who sat as judges on circuit, had intimated that their opinion coincided with that of the minority. With such a state of opinion among the judges could the law be said to be in a satisfactory state? He maintained, that it was not, and therefore called on the House to define the franchise according to the intent and meaning of the Reform Act.Mr. Lynch
392 rose to enter his protest against the doctrine laid down by the Attorney-general, that it was competent or even decent for any single judge, or any two judges, to set themselves against the deliberate and mature opinion of the majority of the judges. Till to-night he had never heard any lawyer of eminence, at either the English or Irish bars, propound such a doctrine as this. When the English judges were specially referred to on a similar point, arising out of conflicting opinions on the point of law raised in the case of Frost, what was the reply of the judges to the case referred to them by the Secretary of State? Why, that the opinion of the majority must be held as the opinion of the whole. And when Lord Chief Justice Bushe wrote over to Lord Chief Justice Denman to inquire the opinion of the English judges, as to whether dissentient judges were bound by the opinion of the majority, Lord Denman distinctly informed the Irish judges that the
392Mr. Litton
390l.l.,l.389l.l.l.l.l.,388 said, that the point really lay in the smallest possible compass. The whole difficulty had arisen from expressions used in the English Reform Act, which as framed by the noble Lord, had stated the qualification of the voter to be premises of the clear yearly value to him
390l.l.,l.389l.l.l.l.l.,388Sir E. B. Sugden
391 said, that in the discussion on this subject in 1835, the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had supported a similar measure to this, because it provided annual revision and an appeal both ways, and had not attempted any opposition on the ground that it did not define the franchise. He called on the House to support the motion for going into Committee, on the grounds stated in 1835 by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and to reject his present amendment, that amendment he was convinced not having for its object fairly to define the franchise, for the hon. and
391Mr. Shaw
victimHave diverted their victimHow a mountebank head and a renegade heartWhat a rashness of temper thy spirit betrays;"Oh! it grieves me to think, self-destroyed as thou art,394Quam aut aquila aut 'scorpio' Epidaurias?"Cur in amicorum vitiis tam cernis acutùm,"Cum tua prævideas oculis mala lippus inunctis;393 observed, that the House had for some hours had to listen to the eloquence of a number of learned Members. In the first place, there was his hon. Friend, the Member for Dublin, who was followed by the Member for the University of Dublin, who was replied to by the Attorney-general for England. That learned Gentleman was succeeded by the right hon. and learned Member for Ripon. The fifth lawyer was the second Member for the University of Dublin, who was replied to by the Member for Galway, and who was succeeded by the hon. Member who had just sat down, the learned Member for Coleraine, who was the seventh lawyer that had spoken on this question during the present evening. They had all disagreed in their opinions, and it appeared to him that no two of them attached the same meaning to the qualification. These seven learned Gentlemen were very unlike the seven wise men of the East, for it almost appeared as if they had exerted their ingenuity to see how much they could disagree on this subject. They had had the benefit of the opinion of an ex-Chancellor, and of learned counsel of the Crown, who might be regarded as acolyte judges; and when these authorities disagreed to such an extent, how could it be expected that persons who were not lawyers could agree? They had heard the ex-Chancellor of Ireland—and certainly one of the best Chancellors that Ireland had ever had—disagree entirely with the Attorney-general for England as to the present qualification, and as to the probable consequences of the present bill. In Ireland also there were eight judges on the one side, and four on the other; and the question would remain unsettled until the House took care that some definite interpretation was adopted. It therefore remained for the House to decide whether they were prepared or not, to adopt the application of the same principle to Ireland which the noble Lord, as a Cabinet Minister, supported in the English and Scotch Reform Bills. The only object of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was to get a specific declaration as to the nature of the franchise, and to ensure something like certainty as to the groundwork for the claim. Not less than 550,000 signatures had been affixed to petitions against this bill in Ireland, and he was
victimHave diverted their victimHow a mountebank head and a renegade heartWhat a rashness of temper thy spirit betrays;"Oh! it grieves me to think, self-destroyed as thou art,394Quam aut aquila aut 'scorpio' Epidaurias?"Cur in amicorum vitiis tam cernis acutùm,"Cum tua prævideas oculis mala lippus inunctis;393Mr. H. Grattan
l.l.l.,l.,385384383 said, that all that part of the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman which related to the comparison of the different criterions with respect to qualifications might be dispensed with, because if he could answer the first part of the hon. and learned Gentleman's observations, it became quite immaterial what sort of qualification existed in Ireland. If he could show, that that qualification had been defined and settled by every branch of the Legislature, and that it was binding and conclusive upon the question, it was unnecessary to consider any other criterion than that which had been established. It was admitted on all hands that a decision had been come to by a great majority of the judges in Ireland, in the proportion of ten to two, upon the nature of the qualification. He was prepared to show to the House that the twelve judges had as complete an authority and jurisdiction to decide upon the question of franchise when reserved, for them under circumstances like those under which this question had been reserved, as the fifteen judges in England, or the twelve judges in Ireland had to decide upon any question of criminal jurisdiction. Under the civil bill jurisdiction the appeal was to the single judge, and yet it was the practice for the judge at the assizes to refer any question of difficulty under that juris-
l.l.l.,l.,385384383Mr. Lefroy
387res judicata.386 rose, to enter his protest against the assertion that the law upon this subject was settled, certain, and decided, and that consequently there was no occasion for a declaratory bill. On the contrary, he maintained that the law was unsettled, uncertain, in a complete state of confusion, and that some legislative settlement was necessary. How could any one say, that the question was settled when those to whom it had been referred differed?—when judges had decided differently, when assistant barristers had decided differently, and when committees had decided opposite ways? The Longford committee had decided the beneficial interest to be not that of the 10th George 4th, viz., such a rent as a solvent tenant could pay, but the rent that the property was worth to the claimant. That was the beneficial interest, and so far as that case was concerned, the hon. and learned Gentleman was entirely mistaken. It was,
387res judicata.386The Attorney-General
403402O'Connell said,—Sir, the course pursued in this House to-night appears to me to vary from any course which we have hitherto been accustomed to. After repeated trials of the strength of each side of the House, its opinion was taken, and it was agreed to go into Committee. The noble Lord then said, he would not be a party to any unfair obstructions, but he seems now to forget that he has been producing that effect in practice. We entered into Committee, but small progress was made. We got through three clauses with some difficulty, and find ourselves unfairly obstructed in the fourth. Only look, Sir, at what course has been pursued. Notice was given "to move an instruction to the Committee on the Registration of Votes (Ireland) (No. I.) Bill, to define municipal cesses and taxes." [Mr. 403402O'ConnellSir Robert Peel
, in the absence of his hon. colleague, Colonel Rolleston, moved "That, in the collegiate church of Southwell, the canonries, as vacancies occur, except the canonry. held by the Archdeacon of Nottingham, shall be suppressed, until only four remain and that such canons shall be Residentiaries." Almost all the collegiate churches had been converted into cathedrals; Southwell was one of the few collegiate churches that remained, but he could not see why all the canonries should be entirely suppressed.The Earl of Lincoln
426 felt great reluctance in differing from his noble Friend; looking at the sustainment of the beautiful building of the church of Southwell, but referring to the principle of the bill which he had supported, he felt bound to vote for the bill as it stood. The rule acted upon by the Archbishop of York, whilst the county of Nottingham was under his jurisdiction, was, to annex these canonries to the livings of meritorious clergymen. Yet Southwell, however respectable it might be, did not occupy the same situation as cathedrals, and there was nothing in the service which might not be performed by a single clergyman, as in any Other beautiful church, and he must
426Mr. Vernon Harcourt
 said, that many of the ecclesiastical officers would have their efficiency impaired by the great reductions in their stipends effected by this clause. His (Mr. Acland's) object would be to preserve on the old foundations certain offices in cathedrals which at present exist, with a view to append them as dignities to the rural deans, and for that purpose he should move the omission from the clause of the words "nor to any prebend, dignity, or officer, not residentiary in any cathedral church in England or Wales."Mr. Acland
428 said, the stipends of the majority of the officers mentioned were so small, that they would not be any reward to those preferred to them.
428Dr. Lushington
 did not so much object to the appointment of a Committee, but he could never be a party to advising the Crown to break a pledge given to the subscribers to the Nelson monument; and he must say, that with reference to that part of the alterations in front of the National Gallery, it was too late to prevent it,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the matter was of some interest, not merely as regarded the Nelson monument, but National Gallery also, which building remained an eternal monument of the taste of the House of Commons.Sir J. Graham
431 said, the object of this
431Dr. Lushington
 said, the proposal of the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Acland) was inconsistent with the general scope of the bill. Its object was, that the officers of cathedrals should have certain functions and duties to perform, and that was incompatible with the present proposition. He must therefore oppose the amendment.Lord J. Russell
l. said, that the proposal to vest the appointment in the Crown, was made by the church commissioners long before the decision pronounced in the Court of Queen's Bench. The Crown had given up by this bill patronage to the extent of 50,000l.Lord J. Russell
 suggested, that this point might be left for discussion in the other House. The clause had been recommended by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners.Lord J. Russell
l.l.l.l. said, that at present the incomes of the canons were very unequal, some of them extremely small, and others exorbitant, varying from under 200l.l.l.l.Lord J. Russell
 was about to propose an amendment, directly opposite to that of the noble Lord, since he did not think it necessary with respect to Southwell to keep up any establishment. Its position was altogether anomalous, having no other duties annexed than the duty of the parish of Southwell, and what he would propose was, to suppress the single canonry, which by the bill as it stood was intended to be left, and annexing the living of Southwell to the archdeaconry of Nottingham, to leave it in the same situation as any other single benefice.Lord John Russell
 agreed in very many of the observations made by the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montgomeryshire; but when the right hon. Gentleman proposed that he should make some provision in this bill for the purposes the right hon. Gentleman had suggested, certainly a doubt occurred to him whether he could state any thing to the House that would be satisfactory, or whether he could enter into any engagement upon the subject. It appeared to him to be a matter more dependent upon the ecclesiastical authorities—the dean and chapter in the first instance, and the bishop of the diocese in the second—than upon any provision that could be made by Parliament for the purpose. His own belief was, that were divine service to be performed in the aisles, and especially were sermons to be from time to time preached with power and eloquence to the people there, it might be the means of doing very great good. That was his opinion; but he could only state it as his opinion. There might be objections made to the proposal. He was not aware himself of any; still he certainly felt that he was not in a situation to give any thing like a pledge upon the subject.Lord John Russell
422 said: I certainly never heard of this proposition until the former requisition of the University of Cambridge had been complied with. We have consented that two of the canonries of Ely shall be allowed to hold professorships, and I can only say, that iris somewhat unreasonable that the first consequence of our acquiescence should be a further demand. The case of Christ Church was peculiar, and it had been shown that it had been endowed for a particular purpose, and had a right to be placed on the same footing as Trinity College, Cambridge, as both were founded for the benefit of learning. This is the reason why we have given eight prebends to Christ Church. There is no analogy, therefore, between Christ Church and Ely; but still we propose to give to Ely six prebends, two canonries, and four professorships. Seeing the considerable endowments which the University of Cambridge possesses, we think them amply sufficient for the objects of that university; but if any thing could be done to benefit the university I should be glad to consider the matter with a view to that end. However, my impression at present is, that
422Lord John Russell
423 expressed a wish that additional services should be performed in the several cathedrals of the kingdom. Nothing would grieve him more than to behold those magnificent edifices erected by the piety of our forefathers, desecrated from the high and holy purposes to which they were originally
423Mr. Williams Wynn
425 paid, that at the time he had the honour of serving as one of the Members of the first Ecclesiastical Commission, he, at a meeting of the commissioners, threw out the same suggestion, and it appeared to him to have Been received with approbation; but it had not since been acted upon. He was aware that it must be a subject of arrangement, and the question to be considered was,
425Mr. Williams Wynn
 also felt obliged to oppose the amendment of his noble Friend.Sir E. Sugden
l. believed that the hon. Baronet's observations did not apply to Southwell, for if it were desirable to keep prizes for a lottery in the church, this could not be the case with the 16l.Mr. Vernon
 did not see why the church of Southwell should be deprived of the benefit of the one canon which the commissioners in their last report had recommended.Mr. Goulburn
l. observed, that the clergy were 15,000 in number, and that his proposition went only the length of giving 2,000l.Mr. Goulburn
l.l. objected to the latter part of the clause, which had not been recommended by the commissioners. He could not approve of fixing a money payment to be made to the canons and other dignitaries of the Church. He wished to see them allowed to retain the management of their property. He objected, also, to equalizing the incomes of the canons, and fixing them at so low a sum as 1,000l.l.Mr. Goulburn
l.s.ll.s.l.421 objected to the amendment. He could perceive no great difference between the circumstances of Christ Church and those of the cathedral of Ely, and he, therefore, thought, that, as the noble Lord proposed by the bill to give eight prebendal stalls to Christ Church, he had a right to claim that the same number should be given to Ely. If this bill passed it would deprive the canons of Ely of the means they now had for instructing youth, because they would be unable to absent themselves for a sufficient length of time to attend to their duties in the University. The question might naturally be asked, what was the connection between the University of Cambridge and the cathedral of Ely? His answer was, that that connexion was very close, and had existed very long—a bishop of Ely having founded two of the colleges, Jesus and Peters, and made them partakers to a large extent in his patronage by conferring prebends on the masters of the university, over which he presided. From the earliest times there had been only three deans of Ely, who were not masters in the University of Cambridge. The cathedral of Ely had rendered great assistance to the university by providing in this way for professors, and therefore he must entreat the noble Lord to take the case of this cathedral into his consideration, and to place it on the same footing as Christ Church. There was one other point to which he must advert, and that was the inadequate emoluments of the Norrisian professor of divinity. Now, this was a most important affair, because
l.s.ll.s.l.421Mr. Goulburn
 said, that the general feeling of the clergy, as set forth in the petitions which they presented to the House, was decidedly in favour of the principle upon which his amendment was founded.Mr. Goulburn
420 said, there had been received at the Board of Trade, within the last very few days, a report from a commission that had been appointed by the Spanish Government for investigating the character of the existing tariff, but from its having been so recently received, he was unable to give the full particulars of
420Mr. Labouchere
 was not aware how far her Majesty's Government possessed the means of carrying into effect the suggestion offered by the right hon. Gentleman; but he felt very strongly that Westminster Abbey might be most usefully and beneficially applied to affording religious instruction to the people. At present free access to the Abbey was not afforded to the public; many persons were constantly refused admittance during the hours of divine service.Mr. Briscoe
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, whether any account of the new Tariff which had been reported to have been issued by the Spanish Government, and which was said to be of a nature most injurious to our manufacturing interests, had reached the Government?Mr. Wallace
 said, that as it seemed to him these offices might be given as dignities to the rural deans, who would be brought in constant communication with the diocesan, essentially useful offices would be created.Mr. Estcourt
 regretted the proposal of his hon. Friend had not a more favourable reception from the noble Lord, inasmuch as by the retention of the offices proposed, economical means would be afforded of rewarding with dignities meritorious clergymen.Mr. Gladstone
424 expressed the
424Sir Edward Knatchbull
 said, that on his side of the House they were for giving adequate remuneration to the more meritorious portion of the clergy.Sir H. Verney
 wished to remind the Committee, that they were not dealing With the public revenue, but with the estates of individuals.Sir R. H. Inglis
 said, the object of the clause was to prevent any person receiving the appointment of canon until he had been six years in priest's orders, and he proposed to introduce an amendment to the effect of excepting in the case of canonries annexed to any professorship or headship, or other office, not being an archdeaconry.Sir R. Inglis
 objected to making all the officers of the Church purely stipendiary. Many of these establishments were originally created without any fixed emoluments to the officers, but with merely a common fund from which they were to be provided with daily sustentation. He was strongly opposed to depriving the Church of those offices which were regarded as sources of dignity, and as inducements to the young and enterprising to enter its service; and if, therefore, the House should take away all those estates from which those officers derived their emoluments, they should, at least, leave it those honorary distinctions. If the amendment should not be adopted, he would propose that words to this effect should be introduced into the clause: —" That no appointment shall be made which may confer any title to any estate or emoluments, but that such appointment may be made, provided it does not confer any such title." If they deprive the Church of this internal support, they ought to leave it what on former occasions had been described as objects of such just and legitimate interests to its different members.Sir R. H. Inglis
 stating, that the proposition which he was about to make, was not intended to disturb the decision to which the Committee had just come, and which would not deprive the general fund of a single shilling, but would preserve the institutions themselves; since, by the previous decision of the Committee, the House had declared that the Church should not have the establishment with money, let them have the establishment without it. He moved, that with respect to the offices comprised in the amendment of his hon. Friend, no future appointment should be made which should confer a title to any estate or emolument, but that such appointments might still be made without conferring any such title.Sir R. H. Inglis
430 remarked, that this
430Sir R. H. Inglis
 would have felt more pleasure in voting for the motion of his noble Friend, if he had gone the full length of proposing that the whole of the establishment should be left as it was. Holding, as he did, that it was the duty of the State to provide for the Church, he held that this ought to be done without depriving any portion of the Church of the funds originally intended, and by the law applied to other purposes. Looking at the way in which the Church was interwoven with the State, he thought that they would injure the hold of the Church upon the people, if they did anything to prevent persons of all classes of the community from entering into its ministration. It was most desirable that they should keep in the Church persons from every class, the highest as well as the lowest, by giving to them that distinction and those emoluments, which the piety of our ancestors had afforded for that purpose. And if his principle were correct, it applied as well to the case of Southwell as to any other.Sir R. H. Inglis
 hoped the observations of his right hon. Friend would meet with the noble Lord's attention. To those who were of opinion that an increased Chinch accommodation was required, the suggestion of his right hon. Friend would appear to be one very obvious, and a very just mode of affording that increase. It was well known that in former times prayers were said and sermons preached in the aisles of the cathedrals. He, however, differed from his right hon. Friend in one particular. There might be moveable pews in the cathedrals in the north of France, but he could speak from his own knowledge, that in the south of France the pews in the cathedrals were as fixed and immoveable as they were in England.Sir R. Inglis
 thought, that, on public principles, his right hon. Friend had a right to make the demand which he had advanced. The point to be considered was, not whether, because a small concession had been made, further demands were not to be pressed, but it was in reality whether his right hon. Friend had not established a case to justify that which he now claimed. He could only say that his right hon. Friend should have his support.Sir R. Inglis
 was disposed to support the general recommendations of the commissioners. At the same time, if there were any matters of detail which were not supported by sound arguments, he thought it not at all improper to disagree with these recommendations. He hoped the Bishops and officers of the Church would make personal merit and qualification the chief grounds upon which to appoint individuals to ecclesiastical duties. He believed the Church of England would owe more security to that principle of selection than to any other measure that could be adopted. He thought the House should not deal with more subordinate points, which could afford no additional security to the Church, but which, on the contrary, would actually diminish it. The restriction would have the effect of excluding many distinguished men; Dr. Pusey, for instance, would be excluded by it.Sir. R. Peel
 contended, that a strong case for the cathedral of Ely had been made out; and, for his own part, he could not see how these funds could be better applied than in advancing the cause of learning.Viscount Dungannon
 proposed a clause, the object of which was the introduction into the number of trustees of ten practical men of those who paid 19–20ths of the funds raised by the tolls.Mr. J. Jervis
452 opposed the clause. It would be unprecedented to introduce into
452Sir P. Egerton
 contended that the amendment was just and reasonable, and one which the House might grant, as it in no way affected the general principle of the bill. Surely, nothing could be more reasonable than that those whose interests were greatly affected by the tolls should be represented in the trustees.Mr. E. J. Stanley
 opposed it, on the ground that it was wholly unprecedented to take funds for the erection of churches of the Protestant worship from tolls collected from persons of all religious denominations. If this principle were adopted, the trustees of other rivers, canals, or docks, might claim a right to apply the funds of the trusts for the purpose of building churches. He also objected to the bill as sanctioning a complete misapplication of the property of the trust from its original intended objects.Lord R. Grosvenor
 did not think that the relief of the religious destitution of the district would be a departure from the original intentions of the trust, but he would vote against the bill in the hope of having a better bill on the subject next year.Sir C. Lemon
461460459 rose and said, that
461460459Lord Stanley
484483 said, that he felt ready to offer the meed of his congratulation to her Majesty's Government for the general scope of this treaty, which he thought calculated to increase the trade of this country. When so much had been said of reciprocal advantages, be was anxious to
484483Mr. Colquhoun
468467466l.l.465464 said, that before the House proceeded to the business of the day, he wished to explain what course he meant to pursue with regard to the Clergy Reserves Bill. He felt the course was such
468467466l.l.465464Lord J. Russell
469 replied, it is proposed to leave one-half of the three-fourths to the disposal of the Governor-general and the executive council, for the purposes
469Lord J. Russell
463462 said, there was one part of the noble Lord's statement, and one part only, to which he thought himself bound to advert. Upon the reasons which the noble Lord had given for not pressing this bill in the present Session, on the grounds of public convenience, he had nothing to say; but with regard to what seemed to be imputed with respect to the opposition to this bill, he thought it his duty, after what the noble Lord had stated, to say, that fair, candid, and open had been the character of that opposition. There might be a question certainly whether, after the House had agreed to go into Committee on the bill, any motion should be made to prefer any other bill to the bill of the noble Lord. He felt he was fully entitled to have made such a motion; but, in order that there might be no excuse for alleging that he endeavoured to prevent the progress of this bill, it had not been his intention to do so. The hon. Member for Halifax had however, proposed such a motion to the House. That hon. Member had voted for going into Committee, at the same time giving reasons, which, as he thought, should have induced him to vote against it. But he did not think the noble Lord could say, that his hon. Friend had been actuated by motives of unfair and un-candid opposition. There had been another occasion to which the noble Lord adverted when they were about to go into Committee, when the hon. and learned Member for Dublin moved an instruction; but under what circumstances did he move it, and what was the debate that then took place? It was under these circum-
463462Lord John Russell
 was understood to answer in the negative.Lord J. Russell
 said, there were some points connected with that measure which required consideration before it could be further proceeded with. He had, however, been anxious to introduce it to the House, but he did not intend to go on with it this Session.Lord J. Russell
: Yes.Lord J. Russell
485 objected to the principle of the treaty. He was old enough to remember when reciprocity treaties first came before the House, and, at that time, had stated that their effect would
485Mr. A. Chapman
 trusted Government would not relax the Navigation Laws.Mr. A. White
 said, that the object of the framers of the fourth article in this treaty had been to interest Great Britain in maintaining the free navigation of the mouth of the Danube and the Black Sea, and the ports there. It was observable, that since this treaty had been concluded there had been an increased activity in the trade between this country and Austria. It was highly desirable, therefore, that the Government should be empowered to enter into similar treaties with other powers, and so far to relax the strictness of the navigation laws. He rejoiced to find that this bill had received such a degree of attention, and that there was a prospect of some relaxation of those laws.Mr. Hawes
 observed, that the advocates of free trade in that House did not at all relish the principles of the bill when they affected their own constituents. The hon. Gentleman who spoke last was in favour of the repeal of the Corn-laws, but was strenuously opposed to any change in the Navigation Laws. He was favourable to the principles of free trade, and should, therefore, support the motion.Mr. Hindley
486 said, the right hon. Gentleman had forgotten the 5lh Clause, which gave to Austria great advantages. The complaint of his hon. Friend was, that the Government had not come earlier to the House for the power to carry the treaty into execution, inasmuch as the treaty was in violation of the Navigation Laws. As to the allegation that fifty-nine
486Sir E. Sugden
482481480d.479ad valorem.viz.478477 said, that he had made no exposition of the grounds upon which he had made this motion, because he had thought that it would be better to wait until he saw the nature of the accusations brought against the Government before he attempted to make any explanation of his conduct, or of the conduct of those with whom he had had the honour to act. With regard to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, he must say, that he had never heard more fallacious observations addressed to the House, or observations founded on more unstable grounds, and
482481480d.479ad valorem.viz.478477Mr. Labouchere
"That the Chairman be directed to move the House, that leave be given to bring in a bill, to enable her Majesty to carry into effect certain stipulations contained in a treaty of commerce and navigation between her Majesty and the Emperor of Austria, and to empower her Majesty to declare, by Order in Council, that ports which are the most natural and convenient shipping ports of States, within whose dominions they are not situated, may in certain cases be considered, for all purposes of trade with her Majesty's dominions, as the national ports of such States." brought up the report of the committee on commerce and navigation, as follows—
"That the Chairman be directed to move the House, that leave be given to bring in a bill, to enable her Majesty to carry into effect certain stipulations contained in a treaty of commerce and navigation between her Majesty and the Emperor of Austria, and to empower her Majesty to declare, by Order in Council, that ports which are the most natural and convenient shipping ports of States, within whose dominions they are not situated, may in certain cases be considered, for all purposes of trade with her Majesty's dominions, as the national ports of such States."Mr. Labouchere
476475Sir—The Lords of the Committee of Privy Council for Trade have considered the application of Mr. John Routh, of the 2nd instant, transmitted by you, on the subject of a cargo of Turkish corn, imported from a Turkish port in the Danube in an Austrian ship; and their Lordships having adverted to the language of the 4th article of the Austrian treaty, referred to in your letter, have directed me to state their opinion, that although there may be no concurrent law for carrying that article into effect, according to the construction put upon it by the shippers at Galacz, it would be pro-per to give some relief in this and in similar cases. I am, therefore, to request that you will inform the Lords Commissioners of her Majesty's Treasury, of the opinion of the Lords of this Committee, that such cargoes should, for the present, be admitted to entry for home consumption, upon the payment of a moderate fine, which they think should be demanded, in order to prevent the assumption that the importation is authorised by the existing law.""Board of Trade, Whitehall, 12th Sept., 1839.474473"In like manner, all British vessels, with their cargoes, shall continue to be placed upon the same footing as Austrian vessels, whenever such British vessels shall enter into or depart from the same ports.""All Austrian vessels arriving from the ports of the Danube, as far as Galacz inclusively, shall, together with their cargoes, be admitted into the ports of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and of all the possessions of her Britannic Majesty, exactly in the same manner as if Such vessels came direct from Austrian ports, with all the privileges and immunities stipulated by the present treaty of navigation and commerce."472"In consideration of British vessels arriving from other countries than those belonging to the high contracting parties being admitted with their cargoes into Austrian ports, without paying any other duties whatever than those paid by Austrian vessels, so also the productions of the soil and industry of the parts of Asia or Africa situated within the Straits of Gibraltar, which shall have been brought into the ports of Austria, may be re-exported from thence in Austrian vessels directly into British ports, in the same manner and with the same privileges as to all manner of duties and immunities, as if these productions were imported from Austrian ports in British vessels,"471470 thought that some explanation would have been given by the right hon. Gentleman for such an extraordinary motion, especially as he had given notice of motion of certain resolutions, the effect of which would be some such measure as that which the right hon. Gentleman now professed his desire to bring forward. The immediate effect of the present motion would be, to interpose between his motion, which was for an address to her Majesty, praying her to take some steps to put an end to the state of things now existing. He had thought, that the right hon. Gentleman would have explained under what circumstances and for what purposes he came forward in the year 1840, and asked for a power to be placed in the hands of Government, enabling them at their discretion to set aside the Navigation Act, for the purpose of carrying into effect a treaty with Austria made two years ago. He would venture to say, that it was an unexampled circumstance for a member of the Government to come down and propose a measure of such an extraordinary character, without saying a word in its support. Was it for hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House to explain why this extraordinary power was requisite? Yet it was necessary that he should state to the House that which the right hon. Gentleman was unwilling to stale. Two years
476475Sir—The Lords of the Committee of Privy Council for Trade have considered the application of Mr. John Routh, of the 2nd instant, transmitted by you, on the subject of a cargo of Turkish corn, imported from a Turkish port in the Danube in an Austrian ship; and their Lordships having adverted to the language of the 4th article of the Austrian treaty, referred to in your letter, have directed me to state their opinion, that although there may be no concurrent law for carrying that article into effect, according to the construction put upon it by the shippers at Galacz, it would be pro-per to give some relief in this and in similar cases. I am, therefore, to request that you will inform the Lords Commissioners of her Majesty's Treasury, of the opinion of the Lords of this Committee, that such cargoes should, for the present, be admitted to entry for home consumption, upon the payment of a moderate fine, which they think should be demanded, in order to prevent the assumption that the importation is authorised by the existing law.""Board of Trade, Whitehall, 12th Sept., 1839.474473"In like manner, all British vessels, with their cargoes, shall continue to be placed upon the same footing as Austrian vessels, whenever such British vessels shall enter into or depart from the same ports.""All Austrian vessels arriving from the ports of the Danube, as far as Galacz inclusively, shall, together with their cargoes, be admitted into the ports of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and of all the possessions of her Britannic Majesty, exactly in the same manner as if Such vessels came direct from Austrian ports, with all the privileges and immunities stipulated by the present treaty of navigation and commerce."472"In consideration of British vessels arriving from other countries than those belonging to the high contracting parties being admitted with their cargoes into Austrian ports, without paying any other duties whatever than those paid by Austrian vessels, so also the productions of the soil and industry of the parts of Asia or Africa situated within the Straits of Gibraltar, which shall have been brought into the ports of Austria, may be re-exported from thence in Austrian vessels directly into British ports, in the same manner and with the same privileges as to all manner of duties and immunities, as if these productions were imported from Austrian ports in British vessels,"471470Mr. Herries
 in explanation, said, that the right hon. Gentleman had mistaken him. What he objected to was, that the right hon. Gentleman, having made his motion, had not thought right to support it with any statement. He would thus have been afforded an opportunity to reply. But, instead of doing that, the right hon. Gentleman had put him in the condition of making a statement, whilst he had himself the opportunity of reply. With respect to making general provisions to enable the Government to grant similar advantages to other states, he thought that no more powers ought to be given than were shown to be necessary. If it was shown that those powers were more than were necessary, they ought not to be asked for by the Crown, nor conceded by the House of Commons.Mr. Herries,
 had not intended to say anything against the general scope and principle of this treaty.Mr. Herries
: There was this advantage gained from the treaty, which distinguished it from that of Lord Aberdeen—that at present British ships could go from any part of the world to Austria. Formerly they were confined to Great Britain. This was a change essentially distinct, which the hon. Member for Harwich must admit, on consideration, to be a change for the better. What was the result? In 1837, the number of British ships which went into Austria were 95; in 1838, the year of the treaty, they increased to 164; and in 1839, there were 144. It was a curious circumstance, that of the latter there were 59 which came not direct from Britain, but from various foreign ports, and this in virtue of the present treaty. Another advantage from the present change was the alteration of the tariff and the shortening of the period of quarantine.Mr. Sheil
 wished to know whether it was the intention of the noble Lord to proceed with the Rights of Voting Bill this Session?Sir C. Douglas
 said, that as this was about the time for clearing off bills, he wished to know whether the Government intended to go on now with the Treating and Bribery Bill?Sir R. Peel
: And the same, I suppose, with regard to the Ireland Registration Bill (No. 2), so that we shall have got rid of these five bills at once.Sir R. Peel
: I presume, then, that the English Registration Bill will also be postponed?Sir R. Peel
: I think it necessary to state, that the opinions which I have on different occasions delivered upon the subject of Canada, remain entirely unchanged. With respect to the clergy reserves, I hope this measure will be discussed in the same spirit as the union of the Canadas—and I would appeal to the House if it could be asserted, of the propositions made to the noble Lord, and by him to the House, that the Church of England had been governed by a rigid adherence to his own interests. I think that the proposition made by the Archbishop of Canterbury, distinguished as well for his high station as for his moderation, comes recommended by justice as well as forbearance. On the part of the Church of England, all obstacles are removed from the disposal of the whole of the reserve lands. The Church seeks not to reserve to herself any of these lands. After the decision of the judges, the Church of Scotland is admitted to the same right as the Church of England; and the only difference which exists is, the difference arising from the number of adherents which belong to each. With this proposition, acquiesced in by the two churches, permitting the sale of the whole of the reserve lands, with the guarantee in perpetuity of the present amount with one-third of the proceeds of the future sale, that is a proposal recommended by its intrinsic importance, as well as by its justice and moderation. It would be unfortunate, indeed, if this question should remain unsettled. It is to me a source of the greatest satisfaction, that the noble Lord acquiesces in the proposal made by the Church of England. In acceding to that proposal, I think the noble Lord has acted wisely; and I sincerely hope that this measure will be discussed in the same spirit as the question of the union, and I trust that the two measures will pass into a law with the general concurrence of the House, and by doing so, be the foundation of a happy relation between this country and Canada.Sir R. Peel
456Gazette;Gazette.Gazette. said, since he had last put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs on the subject of China, the order in council of the 3rd of April last had appeared in the 456Gazette;Gazette.Gazette.Sir R. Peel
458 —I am not entitled to enter into any argument upon the question, but the relations of this country with foreign nations is a most important one to our merchants, and it is necessary that they should have every possible information upon such a subject. I understand the purport of the answer of the noble Lord to be, that, although the Orders in Council were different from former orders, still they in no respect altered the position of our relations with China any more than had they been simple orders in council. The next question I have to ask is, when a vessel is seised and sent to a court, will it depend upon whether or no the Emperor of China gives satisfactory explanations that it is to be adjudicated upon; and if so, what is the authority that is to
458Sir R. Peel
 —In what position will the foreign merchant resident in China be placed? Is the noble Lord aware that there is an important variance between the recital of the orders in council, and the directory part of them? The directory had ordered all our vessels to detain and hold in custody all vessels belonging to the Emperor of China, and all persons inhabiting that country. Under this direction, our vessels must detain the vessels of all persons residing in China, whose case is not mentioned in the recital. I wish to know, if the noble Lord has no objection to make the statement, what he considers would be the situation of foreign merchants, Americans for instance, who belonged to the factories, because, in the East, a merchant is considered to belong to the country to which the factory belonged; but, in this country, a Dutchman carrying on business in an American factory, would be considered a Dutchman.Sir R. Peel
: The framers of this treaty were certainly, in his opinion, entitled to credit for the spirit which prevailed in it. At the same time he must say, that in the encomiums bestowed on it sufficient attention had not been paid to that which preceded it. He certainly could not bestow unequivocal praise on the distinctions of a treaty which resting on the ground of mutual advantages refused to allow the entrance of the ships of the foreign power. The discussion, however, would be advantageous.Sir S. Canning
487 felt great gratification at perceiving that the opinions of almost everybody who had taken part in this subject were in accordance with the principles upon which this treaty was framed. He thought that it would prove exceedingly useful to the commercial interests and relations of this country for it to go forth that all parties were agreed in favour of the liberal principles on which this treaty was framed. It had been objected that some of the articles of the treaty were not so clearly drawn as they might have been. He did not admit this objection to the extent it had been made,
487Viscount Palmerston
 said, that in that respect the order in council had been copied from the previous orders in council. The course usually pursued under such orders in council, he believed, was to detain the vessels of those that were neutral, and also those with whom the country was at war; and then, if the matter in dispute was brought to an amicable conclusion, both the ships and the cargoes were released; but if war ensued, then the ships of the enemy were condemned, and the neutral cargo was restored by the sentence of a court of Admiralty, duly commissioned for the purpose; and if, after hostilities had commenced, any neutral who chose to fix his residence in the State which was at war, assumed the character of a common enemy, he would be treated as such.Viscount Palmerston
 —For the same reason before stated, viz. distance, full powers had been given to an authority to determine on the behalf of the Government, whether the reparation offered was sufficient or not.Viscount Palmerston
457 conceived the nature of the order determined the nature of our relations with China. As far as his opinion respecting the effect of the expedition recently sent out went, he could only say that it would be impossible, on account of the distance, and on account of delays attendant upon communications with that part of the world, for any one to form an opinion as to the effect which that expedition was likely to produce upon our relations with China. What our relations with China actually were at the present moment was known to all the world. With respect to the order in council, to which the right hon. Baronet had just adverted, it was perfectly true, that the order in council went much further as to provisions than was usual in such cases, but it was occasioned by a necessity which arose out of the peculiarity of the case. If the proceedings in question related to a country within a short distance of Great Britain, so that our communications could reach
457Viscount Palmerston
543542"That shortly after the departure of the said consul, in her Majesty's ship Druid, and the publication of a portion of his instructions, together with the said Treasury minute, the public mind in France became suddenly excited on the subject of the acts of the British Government and the departure of the said colonists from Great Britain, and that the result of this excitement has been the formation of a company, with a capital of one
542541 must say, that the noble Lord, in the speech which he had addressed to the House, temperate though it was, did not appear to lay down sufficient grounds to induce the House to appoint a committee. The noble Lord had dwelt much on the great advantages of emigration conducted upon some known principle. He was quite as much convinced as the noble Lord of the importance of emigration generally, and also of conducting it on good principles. Because, however the Colonial-office promoted caution, it was most improperly described as against all emigration. There was, however, so much false information given to the public, connected with emigration on which the public, and particularly the working men, were liable to imposition, that it was the duty of the Colonial office to watch narrowly all proceedings in relation to this subject. Again, the method of our colonization, as it respected the natives, was, generally speaking, disgraceful to us as a nation. When it was found that our superior civilization only led to a refinement of cruelty, and not to any improvement in the condition of the natives, he thought that the Colonial-office ought to look upon all steps taken to establish new colonies with much suspicion. The noble Lord had referred to a petition from the manufacturers of Paisley; but, to any one who had read that petition it would be obvious that it must have been prepared by some other person, and
543542"That shortly after the departure of the said consul, in her Majesty's ship Druid, and the publication of a portion of his instructions, together with the said Treasury minute, the public mind in France became suddenly excited on the subject of the acts of the British Government and the departure of the said colonists from Great Britain, and that the result of this excitement has been the formation of a company, with a capital of one
542541Mr. Vernon Smith
 begged to assure the House that the New Zealand Land Company were much more independent than the noble Lord, and the hon. Member the Under-Secretary for the Colonies seemed to suppose of any decision to which the Government or the House should arrive upon the subject. There had been a time when the Government had appeared hostile to them, but even then the company would have gone on without its assistance, although, at the same time, they would have felt better pleased if they could have proceeded with the sanction of the Government.Mr. F. Baring
. The contradictory statements which had been made upon this question to the House, distinctly proved to him the necessity for that inquiry for which he had moved. In consequence of the support he had received from both sides of the House, he should not be authorised to withdraw his motion.Lord Eliot replied
550549548547l.546 said, that it was with no inconsiderable embarrassment that he rose to address the House, feeling that the subject to which he was about to draw their attention would have been much better and more advantageously placed in other and abler hands. He sincerely hoped that the question of Church-rates would cease to be considered one of a political nature, and that it would be looked to, not as a matter of strife between two antagonist parties in that House, but as a question affecting the interests, the happiness, and the religious character of a large part of the population of this country. The object of his motion was, to obtain leave to bring in a bill to exonerate Dissenters from the burden of Church-rates. The bill would have plainly and simply for its object the exemption of Dissenters from the payment of Church-rates, and the mode by which he should carry out his proposition was, that when a person was summoned for the payment of any rate, his solemn declaration that he
550549548547l.546Easthope
531l.l.s.530529"That the cultivation of the soil was an obligation imposed by nature on mankind, and that the human race could not well subsist or greatly multiply if savage tribes were entitled to claim and retain all the boundless regions through which they might wander. If such a people would usurp more territory than they could subdue and cultivate, they had no right to complain if a nation of cultivators put in a claim for a part, and confined the natives in their narrower limits."528"On the discovery of this continent by the nations of Europe, the discovery was considered to have given to the Government, by whose subjects or authority it was made, a title to the country, and the sole right of acquiring the soil from the natives as against all other European powers. Each nation claimed the right to regulate for itself, in exclusion of all others, the relations which were to subsist between the discoverer and the Indians. The natives were admitted to be the rightful occupants of the soil, with a legal as well as just claim to retain possession of it, and to use it according to their own direction, though not to dispose of the soil at their own will, except to the Government claiming the right of preemption. The practice of Spain, France, Holland, and England proved the general recognition of this principle of a claim and title to territories given by discovery,'' "To leave
528Chancellor Kent's Commentaries527"Thus it appears that the Australian colonies must be the principal field for your operations. Even here, however, it will probably be found that in Van Diemen's Land the great amount of available land has already been granted. But New Holland, and probably New Zealand, contain districts which it is not possible to exhaust by any rational scheme of colonization for a long course of years."526"The intelligence which his Majesty's Government has received from the most recent and authentic sources justifies the conclusion that it is an indispensable duty, in reference
526dedimus potestatem525"That it has been a subject of the deepest and most anxious consideration with the memorialists what mode to adopt, or course to pursue, whereby they might have an opportunity of turning their industry to better account, and improving their condition. That they are satisfied (whatever might be the effect of a repeal of the Corn-laws, or of an extension of political privileges), that amongst the weaving population, at least, in consequence of the daily increase of their numbers, and extension of mechanical power and ingenuity, the labour market is greatly over-sup, plied in proportion to the demand; and the memorialists can see no immediate, effectual, or practical remedy for the distress existing amongst them, except by transferring their industry to some one or other of our colonial possessions, where land is cheap and labour dear, and where the most urgent demand for labour exists, and where by industry and sobriety they will be sure of a comfortable subsistence for themselves and families, rather than by remaining at home, inevitably to sink into the condition of paupers and become dependent on the parish poor's funds for their daily bread."524 said, the petition to which he was about to call the attention of the House, agreeably to his notice, was from the merchants, bankers, and shipowners, of the city of London, respecting the colonization of New Zealand; and embodying, as it did, the opinion of so large, so respectable, and so enlightened a body of men on a subject of such great importance, it appeared to him to be deserving of the serious consideration of the House. He regretted that the subject had not been taken up by some hon. Member whose talents and whose position in the House might enable him to do more justice to the subject than he (Lord Eliot) was able to do; but, concurring as he did in the views of the petitioners, he thought it right to acquiesce in their wish that he should bring the matter under the consideration of the House. It was not necessary for him to expatiate on the general subject of emigration; it had been so often brought forward in this House, and the general principle had been so universally acknowledged, that he should only advert to it in passing. A right hon. Friend of his, no longer a Member of that
531l.l.s.530529"That the cultivation of the soil was an obligation imposed by nature on mankind, and that the human race could not well subsist or greatly multiply if savage tribes were entitled to claim and retain all the boundless regions through which they might wander. If such a people would usurp more territory than they could subdue and cultivate, they had no right to complain if a nation of cultivators put in a claim for a part, and confined the natives in their narrower limits."528"On the discovery of this continent by the nations of Europe, the discovery was considered to have given to the Government, by whose subjects or authority it was made, a title to the country, and the sole right of acquiring the soil from the natives as against all other European powers. Each nation claimed the right to regulate for itself, in exclusion of all others, the relations which were to subsist between the discoverer and the Indians. The natives were admitted to be the rightful occupants of the soil, with a legal as well as just claim to retain possession of it, and to use it according to their own direction, though not to dispose of the soil at their own will, except to the Government claiming the right of preemption. The practice of Spain, France, Holland, and England proved the general recognition of this principle of a claim and title to territories given by discovery,'' "To leave
528Chancellor Kent's Commentaries527"Thus it appears that the Australian colonies must be the principal field for your operations. Even here, however, it will probably be found that in Van Diemen's Land the great amount of available land has already been granted. But New Holland, and probably New Zealand, contain districts which it is not possible to exhaust by any rational scheme of colonization for a long course of years."526"The intelligence which his Majesty's Government has received from the most recent and authentic sources justifies the conclusion that it is an indispensable duty, in reference
526dedimus potestatem525"That it has been a subject of the deepest and most anxious consideration with the memorialists what mode to adopt, or course to pursue, whereby they might have an opportunity of turning their industry to better account, and improving their condition. That they are satisfied (whatever might be the effect of a repeal of the Corn-laws, or of an extension of political privileges), that amongst the weaving population, at least, in consequence of the daily increase of their numbers, and extension of mechanical power and ingenuity, the labour market is greatly over-sup, plied in proportion to the demand; and the memorialists can see no immediate, effectual, or practical remedy for the distress existing amongst them, except by transferring their industry to some one or other of our colonial possessions, where land is cheap and labour dear, and where the most urgent demand for labour exists, and where by industry and sobriety they will be sure of a comfortable subsistence for themselves and families, rather than by remaining at home, inevitably to sink into the condition of paupers and become dependent on the parish poor's funds for their daily bread."524Lord Eliot
538s.l.l.s.s.l.s.s.s.s.s.s.537536535534533532"It appeared to the committee that the extension of the colonial possessions of the Crown was a question, the policy of which belonged exclusively for decision to her Majesty's Government." had stated upon a former occasion to the noble Lord, that he Could not see any practical use in appointing a committee upon this subject. It was upon that ground that he should object to the proposed committee, having no other objection than that he could not see how any practical benefit could be derived from the inquiry. As to what the Colonial-office had done, he certainly entertained no apprehension on account of any inquiry upon that subject; on the contrary, he felt it would have the effect of doing away with a great number of gross misrepresentations in point of fact, made at various public meetings upon this subject, and which a very slight inquiry would prove to be unfounded. But he did not see how the House could appoints committee unless some ground were previously laid, upon which inquiry might proceed, and from which some benefit might be derived. He could not throughout the whole of the speech of the noble Lord, perceive any subject of inquiry. All that the noble Lord stated was, that if a committee were appointed, it might probably find some grounds upon which legislation hereafter might proceed. Now, he must say, that for the House to appoint a committee without some definite object in view, but merely for the sake of looking speculatively for some ground of future legislation would be rather a wild species of inquiry. There was one point on which the committee of the House of Lords on the subject of colonization had made a very short report. They stated that:—
538s.l.l.s.s.l.s.s.s.s.s.s.537536535534533532"It appeared to the committee that the extension of the colonial possessions of the Crown was a question, the policy of which belonged exclusively for decision to her Majesty's Government."Lord John Russell
: If the noble Lord persists in his motion, I shall not now oppose it.Lord John Russell
 said, that the duties of Captain Hobson were, in the first place, to endeavour to acquire the sovereignty of those lands in which any of her Majesty's subjects were located. If he should find, in the course of his negotiations with the chiefs, that they were desirous of placing the whole sovereignty of their country in the hands of the Crown of England, he would be authorised to accept such a proposition. It was, however, a subject very much left to the discretion of Captain Hobson, and it was impossible to give any definite answer upon the subject, until some report had been received from him. With regard to the second question of the noble Viscount, he should say, that directly a settlement was made in New Zealand, it would be most desirable that an episcopal establishment, under the authority of the Church of England, should be formed.Lord J. Russell
 hoped the House would not consent to any plan for embankment, until they had all the plans and specifications laid before them.Lord Robert Grosvenor
 would not follow the example of the hon. Gentleman and enter into an examination of Mr. Walker's estimate, as the whole subject was now under the serious attention of the Committee. The question involved the consideration of the navigation of the Thames, and when the attention of the House was directed to the plan of improvement by this or that engineer, it should be considered whether the expense was to be borne by London, or the country generally; and also to what extent private property would be sacrificed. He objected to any proposition of this kind being brought forward in this indirect manner—he should, therefore, oppose it.Mr. Hawes
: Before I put the question, I feel it my duty to call the attention of the House to what seems to me to be an objection in point of form. On the 12th February last, in the present Session of Parliament, a motion was made, and the question put upon it, for leave to bring in a bill to relieve from the payment of church-rates, that portion of her Majesty's subjects who conscientiously dissented from the Established Church. That motion was negatived, and I now have put into my hands a motion for leave to bring in a bill to relieve Dissenters from the Established Church from the payment of church-rates. Now, it appears to me, that these two questions are substantially the same; and as the House is aware, that according to the rules, the same question cannot be twice entertained in the same Session, I apprehend that they will be of opinion, that I cannot now put this question.The Speaker
 rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, for an address with respect to the compensation to the Danish claimants.Mr. Cresswell
l.l. observed, that, whenever any party proposed to take steps to make a road, canal, or railroad, they had to give previous notice to all the persons who were interested in the line of road; but the hon. Baronet now proposed to make a line of road along the banks of the Thames, involving property to an enormous amount, without the slightest notification being given to the parties most deeply interested. He knew a tenant who paid 400l.l.Mr. Warburton
544 admitted, that the Colonial-office was called upon to exercise great caution; yet he could not say, that in this instance it had done what it ought to do. The great object should be to provide for the security of property. Was it possible, however, for any one to go to New Zealand under the present state of the disputed titles? Could any one who did go tell in what situation he would be? And if this were impossible, was it not necessary that the Government should settle the difficult points? Then Captain Hobson went out as Consul and also as Lieutenant-governor. Why was he sent out as Lieutenant-governor? He went out as the authorised representative of her Majesty, and yet the Government disclaimed having any power in New Zealand. Money had been raised by the sale of the land to carry out labourers; and it could not be raised for a more charitable object. Whenever the people were unable to maintain themselves, and there was a waste and wild country to which they wished to emigrate, let them go. They ought not to meet with difficulties, because there was one officer at the head of the Colonial Department in January, and another in April, and a third in June, to be replaced by a fourth in October—so that the officers were changed before the instructions and rules sent out by each arrived at their destination. Who would settle upon waste land unless it was secured to himself and his family, that all improvements he made were to be for his benefit, and that all the advantage to be derived from the application of labour and capital should be his and his children's? That was the ground why the emigrants in America had settled so freely. But was that the case in our own colonies? There the arrangements were for ever varying with the change of persons holding office. He thought that the noble Lord, by moving for a committee was only doing an act of justice to our starving population, and that company which had come forward with large means to assist those who were in want of assistance. By the committee the noble Lord would be able to ascertain the real nature of the title, the claims to the sovereignty of the island, what an individual who had a free passage given to him could gain when he settled in New Zea
544Mr. Hume
556 wished the House to recollect, that the proposition of his hon. and gallant Friend was not to submit a plan of his own to their approbation, but to induce them to investigate an extensive plan of embankment that had been proposed by an eminent engineer. He could not conceive what possible objections there could be to inquiry. He had felt great interest when he accompanied his gallant
556Sir Matthew Wood
553552551 said, he had the more pleasure in seconding the motion of the hon. Member for Leicester, because he felt he was speaking the sentiments of his countrymen in general, and of his constituents in particular. In the assertion of the great principles of religious freedom—in resistance to tyranny over the conscience, whether from civil rulers on the one hand, or ecclesiastical ambition on the other—Scotland had never been wanting; and at the present moment, though not directly interested in a pecuniary point of view in the question before the House, there were no men, not even the Dissenters of Bungay or of Chelmsford, who felt a more lively interest in the relief of the conscientious from a burden craftily, silently, gradually imposed upon the people, as is the case in all instances of clerical usurpations, or who turned with more indignant abhorrence from the specimens of cruelty and oppression, which, in the collection of these odious rates, disgrace the cause of religion in this portion of the island. The more the origin and history of these rates were kept out of view by the clergy, the better for themselves; for the more the subject was investigated, the more would become apparent the avarice and grasping ambition of the dominant sect, and their unscrupulous use of any means, however obnoxious, to increase their own temporal supremacy—a darling object, in pursuit of which public decency and Christian charity were alike violated. He
553552551Mr. Gillon
 did not think the noble Lord had answered the speech of his noble Friend. The colony of South Australia had been established in consequence of a committee of the House of Commons. It would be necessary, even by the noble Lord's admission, to legislate for the formation of the colony in New Zealand, but it was impossible to do so with any prospect of success, without previous inquiry. With respect to the South Australian commission, the noble Lord's letter in September, 1839, to the Lords of the Treasury, stating that there were nine commissioners who expected a salary, was a complete fallacy, for he had himself written to the noble Lord, declining a salary, and three other of the nine commissioners had followed his example.Mr. Mackinnon
 after having perused the papers upon this subject, was bound to give his support to the motion of the noble Lord. He thought that there were several questions, which were of the utmost importance, upon which neither the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, nor the hon. Gentleman the Under-Secretary for that department, had given any answer, and he thought that it would be highly advantageous that these matters should form the subject of mature deliberation before a committee of the House. Delay upon this question would produce the greatest injury to a large portion of the community, and the sooner the views of the Government were finally declared the better.Mr. W. S. O'Brien
554 rose to order, and observed, that on a similar ground to that on which the former motion had been got rid of, he objected to the bringing forward the present proposition. He would, at once, refer the House to the Standing Order, of the date of February 22, 1821, which stated "That that House would not proceed upon any motion for an Address to the Crown praying that any money may be issued, or that any expense may be incurred, but in a Committee of the whole House, and that the same be declared a standing order of
554The Chancellor of the Exchequer
555l."That they shall consider and report their opinion, whether the formation of a terrace or quay along the banks of the river from South-wark-bridge to Hungerford-market would facilitate the convenience of public communication, and contribute greatly as well to the embellishment of the metropolis as to the health, comfort, and recreation of its inhabitants, especially those who are engaged in sedentary employments, and too often reside in close and crowded and unwholesome apartments." rose to move, that an instruction be given to the Select Committee appointed to consider the petition of the corporation of London relative to the embankment of the river Thames:—
555l."That they shall consider and report their opinion, whether the formation of a terrace or quay along the banks of the river from South-wark-bridge to Hungerford-market would facilitate the convenience of public communication, and contribute greatly as well to the embellishment of the metropolis as to the health, comfort, and recreation of its inhabitants, especially those who are engaged in sedentary employments, and too often reside in close and crowded and unwholesome apartments."Sir F. Trench
 hoped that the noble Lord opposite would abstain from pressing his motion to a division at that late period of the Session.Sir H. Verney
540s.bonâfide539 would support the motion of the noble Lord, because it was the duty of an independent Member to force upon the public a knowledge of the absurdities and difficulties in which we have been placed with respect to colonization, in consequence of the course taken by the colonial officers during the last few years; difficulties from which nothing but an act of Parliament could extricate the country. He had attended the public meetings alluded to by the noble Lord, and he repeated in the House what he had said at these meetings, that looking at the papers now before them, the Government
540s.bonâfide539Mr. Ward
 concurred with the hon. Members for Lambeth and Bridport in objecting to this motion; he would, therefore, recommend the hon. and gallant Member to withdraw it.Sir J. Graham
 could not vote for the motion of his hon. and gallant Friend, because the committee already had the power he wished to give them.Sir Robert Inglis
 said, the public were under great obligations to his hon. and gallant Friend for having drawn the attention of the House to the subject; but, at the same time, he thought it would not be expedient to give such an instruction to the committee, not in respect of the plan itself, but in respect of the order of the proceeding in that House. They would be establishing a dangerous precedent. A committee had been appointed, with full and ample power to consider the subject, and to give a special instruction of this kind, would argue a distrust of the committee. He hoped his hon. and gallant Friend would not press his motion.Sir Robert Peel
 desired, first, to know the precise extent to which the sovereignty of the Crown of England over New Zealand was to extend? Some differences appear to have existed upon this subject, and he should like clearly to learn what was the understanding upon which Captain Hobson was to proceed: whether he was to negotiate for the sovereignty of the whole of New Zealand, or whether his negotiations were to be restricted to those parts of the islands where he found Englishmen located? He also desired to be informed, whether, in the event of a colony being formed, any objection would exist to the establishment of a church with a bishop?Viscount Sandon
 having moved the order of the day for the adjourned debate upon receiving the report of the Sale of Beer Bill, No. 2,Mr. Pakington
 said, he could not agree that any such clause should be added to the bill, and even if it were, he doubted whether a provision of that nature could have the effect which his noble Friend anticipated. He fell perfectly convinced, that that new mode of dealing with a very difficult question would be most extensively evaded. He was opposed to the clause, but, though his opinion happened to be otherwise, he still apprehended that the opinion of the House would eventually be rendered adverse to the whole measure, in case his noble Friend succeeded in effecting the proposed alteration.Mr. Pakington
558 said, it appeared to him that the clause would create a new class of privileged houses. An attempt was made to reconcile the interests of beerhouse-keepers and licensed victuallers, while the consideration of the public interest was altogether omitted. The effect of the bill, should it pass into a law, with the clause proposed, would be equivalent to an entire repeal of the existing Beer Act. The whole system of monopoly would be again revived, and the
558The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 proposed, that the words "two-thirds of quantity" be omitted, and "three-fourths of occupiers" substituted.Lord G. Somerset
 said it conferred arbitrary power upon the commissioners, without any guarantee for its due exercise. He moved that the words "to make" be omitted, leaving them only the power to continue and improve present drains.Mr. Darby
 supported the clause.Mr. Handley
 objected to the amendment, alleging that its adoption would render the whole bill inoperative.Mr. Handley
 supported the motion of the hon. Member for Kent, and said, that if it were not carried, he would move a clause exempting the county of Sussex from the operation of the bill.Mr. Darby
 would not oppose the motion, but would give the hon. and learned Gentleman warning of his intention to propose many alterations in the bill when in committee, upon which he should take the sense of the House. He was opposed to capital punishment in every case where it was not likely to be attended with a good effect as an example; because he held that it was not an act of vengeance, but an act which was resorted to for the purpose of deterring others from following in the footsteps of those who suffered the extreme sentence of the law.Mr. F. Maule
561, in moving that this bill be read a second time, wished to say a few words in consequence of what had fallen from the Attorney-general upon the introduction of the bill. His hon. and learned Friend then stated it to be his decided opinion, that the benefits of this measure ought to to be extended to Ireland and Scotland, and in that opinion he (Mr. Kelly) entirely concurred. It having appeared to him also that at the time that opinion was expressed, it had met with the sanction of a great ma-
561Mr. F. Kelly
, adverting to the position of the bill, and to the little chance he had of getting it passed in the present Session, moved the order of the day for going into Committee on it, for the purpose of having it discharged.Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
578 entertained fundamental objections to this clause, as well as to the whole principle of the bill, because it sought to merge into a common fund properties conferred by the donors upon individuals, and which was alien to the intention of the original bequests. The object of the bill was, no doubt, a good one, but the property affected by the bill was about to be placed under the control of persons who did not command his con-
578Sir R. Inglis
 supported the amendment. He was in the possession of collieries in the district of Durham, and he knew there was need of religious instruction among the population.Mr. A. White
l.l.l.l. said, the bill now proposed to increase the incomes of such canonries as were retained and fell under 70l.l.l.l.Lord J. Russell
l. observed, that the instance referred to by the hon. Member was a peculiar case. The Bishop of London had been zealous in promoting the building of several new churches, but had been unable to procure for them a greater endowment than 50l.Lord Teignmouth
 objected to the clause, the object of which was, to preserve an additional stall in Winchester Cathedral, to enable the Bishop of that diocese to fulfil a bargain he had made with the Archdeacon of Surrey for the patronage of the living at Farnham. The ecclesiastical commissioners recommended that eight out of the twelve stalls in Winchester Cathedral should be abolished. By the clause now brought up it was proposed to abolish seven only. He objected to this departure from the recommendation of the commissioners, and, if the clause were persisted in, he should take the sense of the Committee against it. He moved to substitute the word "eight," as the number of canonries which should be reduced at Winchester. The Committee divided on the original question:—Ayes 15; Noes 15—Majority 60.Mr. Aglionby
586585584 was surprised that the
586585584Mr. W, Attwood
 thought the hon. Member for Kilkenny ought to be satisfied with the declaration made by the noble Lord, that the Government would not allow more assistant-commissioners than were absolutely necessary to carry this great measure into effect.Sir R. Price
 would not allow the amendment to be withdrawn, and the Committee divided on the question, that the proviso be added: Ayes 11; Noes 61: Majority 50.Hon. Members
 said, that the guardians had, in many instances, received great assistance from the assistant-commissioners, but he was informed, that for some time past they had not been seen or heard of. He hoped, therefore, that as the necessity for their services was diminished, the assistant-commissioners would be discontinued.Lord Worsley
583 said, that the proposed resolution did not properly belong
583Lord John Russell
 said, it had been made a matter of complaint that the number of assistant-commissioners was too great, and it was supposed that these assistant-commissioners had nothing to do after the formation of the Poor-law unions. The Poor-law commissioners, however, asserted the contrary. The subject would undergo a strict inquiry, and if a reduction in their number could be made, it would be carried into effect.Lord J. Russell
l. was dissatisfied with the expense entailed upon the country by the Poor-law commissioners. They cost the country 25,717l.Mr. B. Wood
 was inclined to support the amendment, for he believed that the boards of guardians could carry the Poor-law into effect, as well without the aid of assistant-commissioners as with it. There was very little left for the assistant-commissioners to do, there being only 799 parishes throughout England that had not been incorporated with the unions.Mr. Benjamin Wood
 could not agree with the noble Lord as to the nature of the proposed instruction. He thought that widows who had obtained situations out of the unions in which their children resided, would often be greatly benefitted by receiving assistance from that union, and as to the frauds practised upon the guardians, it was generally their own fault, as it was their duty to make every inquiry before granting relief.Mr. Darby
 rose to move the instruction of which he had given notice. He thought it an extraordinary circumstance, that the number of assistant commissioners should be so many as seventeen, while by the Poor-law Amendment Act the power to appoint assistant-commissioners given to the chief commissioners was limited to nine, which number they were not to exceed without the consent of the Lords of the Treasury. He found, as he had stated, that the number had been nearly doubled, while the necessity for the assistant-commissioners was now almost done away with. The whole number of parishes that had been united was 13,691, and of these to be hereafter united there was only 799. The hon. Member moved, that it be an instruction to the Committee that they have power to introduce a clause authorizing the boards of guardians, if they shall see fit, to administer relief to widows with families without compelling them to come into the workhouse, although such widows shall not reside within the union in which they have a legal settlement.Mr. Burroughes
 had been informed, by different guardians of the poor, that they had not seen the assistant-commissioners, nor heard of them, for many months. He could not, then, see the use of the large number of commissioners proposed by the bill. He deeply regretted that the other bill on this question had not passed, as various complaints had been made of the want of powers in the commissioners to carry out what he believed to be a correct system of Poor-laws.Mr. Hume
 was as great a friend to the principle of the Poor-law as any man, and his wish was to make it popular, by rendering it as cheap in its administration as possible. What had been said by the noble Lord, appeared to him very fair, and was a good ground for him to withdraw his amendment.Mr. Hume
 said, the present number of assistant-commissioners was seventeen, the original number having been nine. He thought that was a proper number for the House to adopt; he should therefore propose to add these words to the first clause:—" Provided also that the number of such assistant-commissioners shall not, after the 31st of March, 1841, exceed nine."Mr. Hume
 considered that the principle of aiding able-bodied labourers out of the workhouse was most injurious, and had pauperized those whom it was intended to relieve. The same principle applied to able-bodied women. An independent female would, by that principle, be undersold by those who were aided by poor-rates.Mr. Slaney
 hoped his hon. Friend would not, after what had fallen from the noble Lord, press his amendment.Mr. Law Hodges
 hoped the House would adopt the instruction. It was said, that this was not a time proper to introduce such a clause; but when would be the proper time to introduce it? Would the noble Lord promise to introduce it next year? He would do no such thing. He hoped that by next year the Legislature would abandon the entire system; for he said it had entirely failed—it had not fulfilled the prediction made respecting it —namely, that the wages of the poor would be increased. It had been proved that the wages of the poor had 'not increased. As this provision had humanity for its basis, he trusted that it would not be opposed by the noble Lord.Mr. Wakley
 said, that as the hon. Member intended not to mike the motion of which he had given notice, he would not detain the House with many observations, and he was the more induced to take that course, because it would require considerable time to enter into the details, so as to make hon. Members understand the question sufficiently well to form an opinion on it. He confessed, too, that he thought it would be very difficult for the House to have all the requisite information before them, when he found such gross misapprehension and misrepresentation of this subject as the hon. Member, no doubt inadvertently, had indulged in. That hon. Member had attended to the subject for many years, and had attended the committee from beginning to end, and yet, almost without an exception, had he come to an erroneous conclusion on every question before them. He must observe, that with regard to the number of Scotch judges, the committee had determined, after a lengthened inquiry, that the number of them could not be reduced without prejudice to the administration of justice in Scotland. He believed, however, that the suggestions of that committee were to be carried into effect, and that in a short time a great change in the mode of administering justice in Scotland would be made. He thought the hon. Member had made out no case for the interference of the House, and that the hon. Member had taken the best course in not pressing his motion. With respect to the extraordinary powers which, according to the statement of the hon. Member, were attached to the office which he had the honour to fill, he must say he did not know where those powers were, and he was sure, that if they ever did belong to his office, they were now completely in abeyance.The Lord Advocate
629 observed, that as allusion had been made to the prisoners confined in the House of Correction at Wakefield for political offences, he felt bound to observe, that he should have felt it to be his duty to bring the subject before the House had not allusion been made to it by the hon. Member for Fins-bury, and also if he did not believe that his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Home Department would give such an explanation on the subject as would render it unnecessary to proceed further in the matter. He believed that the treatment of those persons confined at Wakefield, if it were as it had been described in the petitions laid on the table of the House, was so contrary and inconsistent with everything like law in the former treat-
629Sir George Strickland
639638Laughter. said, the question was, whether there had not been a change of punishment for political offences. Was it denied that persons convicted of political offences had been treated as felons, and as felons convicted of infamous crimes? The hon. Member for Finsbury had shown the House, that since 1792 there had been no instance of persons convicted of political offences being treated in the same way as such persons had been treated by the present Government. He would go farther back, and he invited the hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Maule) to consult authorities of more ancient date, and he would find, that at no period of our history, not absolutely barbarous, had persons been so treated for political offences. The imprisonment of such persons was only for the security of the state, not for the infliction of punishment. The present Government could not find a precedent for its conduct with respect to the prisoners at present confined for political offences even in those times most remarkable for arbitrary rule. No, not even in the time of the Star-chamber, and of high commissions, for even in those times the rights of prisoners were acknowledged. Did the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) deny that the prisoner had rights? It would appear from the course pursued towards the persons whose cases were then under discussion that he did, and that he refused to acknowledge what even the Star-chamber had admitted. [639638Laughter.Mr. D'Israeli
"There is such a thing as a box of lucifer matches. A box of lucifer matches costs one penny. Talk of physical force! You may have more physical force for a penny than is to be found in a whole regiment of soldiers." expressed much surprise that the hon. Member for Bridport had not admitted that the statements contained in the petitions of Mrs. Roberts were wholly unfounded. It was quite apparent that these petitions were got up by other persons than those who professed to sign them. As to the motion, which in terms related to persons confined for political offences, it should be recollected that political offences varied in degree as much as offences against the person, and therefore it would be unjust to apply the same punishment in all cases. The offences of which these men had been guilty were of a very serious character. They had collected together and harangued seditious meetings, advising the people to arm themselves and take away the property of the rich, and telling them that there were at Bolton 50,000 and at Birmingham 150,000 men armed and ready to join them for that purpose. These were called political offences merely because the offence had a political object, but the consequences were serious in the extreme. The prisoner Carrier said,
"There is such a thing as a box of lucifer matches. A box of lucifer matches costs one penny. Talk of physical force! You may have more physical force for a penny than is to be found in a whole regiment of soldiers."Mr. Burges
 felt it his duty to vote for he motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury. The returns on the table were quite sufficient to justify that vote; and there was no want of precedents to show that such motions had before now been entertained, as they certainly were most fit subjects for the consideration of the House. He repudiated all sympathy with those who infringed the public peace by inciting the people to arson, or any attempt that could endanger life or property; but he had a strong feeling that punishment ought to be apportioned to the offence, and that the more it carried public feeling with it, the more certain it was to be effectual.Mr. Aglionby
653 supported the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He
653Mr. Hamilton
 rose to move, that the debate should be adjourned to Friday next, but in compliance with the wish of the House, proceeded, and contrasted the treatment of former political offenders with those whose case was now before the House. Would the right hon. Baronet have suffered Sir Francis Burdett to be imprisoned and treated in such a manner? He was certain that he would not; and, moreover, that if he had been in power, he would not have suffered it in the case of these persons. The question was not whether these men had been guilty of seditious offences of greater or less magnitude, but whether their treatment in prison was such as it ought to have been? He thought the conduct of the Government had been highly reprehensible, and he should, therefore, vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury.Mr. Williams
637636"In addition to the ordinary examination taken upon the prisoner's reception, there was a minute statement of his case drawn up, not by the prisoner, who was incompetent to the task, but by myself. It originated in the following manner.—Having in one of my visits to the prisoner's cell observed him to be depressed in spirits, I entered fully into conversation with him, when he represented himself as a much-injured man, the victim of private malice and gross perjury. His story was told with much apparent artlessness, and contained several substantial features capable of investigation and indicative of innocence. I mentioned the case to one of the visitors of the prison, who in consequence had an interview with the prisoner, and being also much struck with his narrative, requested me to procure a statement of the leading facts. In compliance with the visitor's request, I sent for the prisoner to my office, and from his representation drew up a statement of such facts as appeared to bear materially upon the question of his innocence. Mr Farrer, to whom I delivered this paper, entertained considerable doubts as
636"That while in the Penitentiary your petitioner made a minute statement of his case, in writing, to the authorities of that place; and your petitioner has every reason to believe, that her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Home Department is in possession of the facts stated by your petitioner.""That your petitioner sustained considerable injury in his health; and is perfectly convinced that, had he not been removed to a more healthful locality, death would soon have put a period to his existence, in spite of the kind treatment he experienced from the Governor, and officers of that establishment."635634633primâ facie632631 felt that the case was even stronger than he had stated. The publication of the seditious libel took place after the introduction of the London police to Birmingham, and its tendency
637636"In addition to the ordinary examination taken upon the prisoner's reception, there was a minute statement of his case drawn up, not by the prisoner, who was incompetent to the task, but by myself. It originated in the following manner.—Having in one of my visits to the prisoner's cell observed him to be depressed in spirits, I entered fully into conversation with him, when he represented himself as a much-injured man, the victim of private malice and gross perjury. His story was told with much apparent artlessness, and contained several substantial features capable of investigation and indicative of innocence. I mentioned the case to one of the visitors of the prison, who in consequence had an interview with the prisoner, and being also much struck with his narrative, requested me to procure a statement of the leading facts. In compliance with the visitor's request, I sent for the prisoner to my office, and from his representation drew up a statement of such facts as appeared to bear materially upon the question of his innocence. Mr Farrer, to whom I delivered this paper, entertained considerable doubts as
636"That while in the Penitentiary your petitioner made a minute statement of his case, in writing, to the authorities of that place; and your petitioner has every reason to believe, that her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Home Department is in possession of the facts stated by your petitioner.""That your petitioner sustained considerable injury in his health; and is perfectly convinced that, had he not been removed to a more healthful locality, death would soon have put a period to his existence, in spite of the kind treatment he experienced from the Governor, and officers of that establishment."635634633primâ facie632631Mr. Fox Maule
630, before he proceeded to reply to the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, felt bound to observe, that nothing that had been said that night, would induce him to alter the course which he had intended to pursue. As to the treatment of these political offenders being severe, unnecessary and unusual, and not consonant to the former practice that obtained with respect to that class of persons, he would state a few facts to the House, and would rely on public opinion for the conviction that the Government had not pressed upon any individuals convicted of political offences, or crimes as they had been termed, in a way which the law would not sanction. His hon. Friend stated, that in certain cases, the parties were treated with much attention and consideration, because they were in a higher station in society. In all those cases, whatever punishment was
630Mr. Fox Maule
, the publication of the placard took place after the first riot and previous to the second.Lord John Russell
647646645"A large number of persons have since been convicted of offences of a similar character, and the greatest portion of those persons, contrary to custom, are, as well as the above-mentioned William Lovett and John Collins, placed on the criminal side of the gaols to which they have been respectively sent, and are there treated after the manner of persons convicted of the most heinous and detestable crimes."644 was rather surprised to hear that his learned Friend intended to vote for this motion, or that he wished to receive from the Government some vain and unsubstantial declaration, as a substitute for it. The hon. Gentleman wished to have some declaration that the law should be executed in a certain manner, which he did not devise; and the hon. Member for Bridport said, he hoped the Government would assure the House that the punishment of political offenders should be executed in a manner which the public would sanction. He felt, however, that he was incapable of giving any such assurance. How could he say that the law would be executed in any other manner than that
647646645"A large number of persons have since been convicted of offences of a similar character, and the greatest portion of those persons, contrary to custom, are, as well as the above-mentioned William Lovett and John Collins, placed on the criminal side of the gaols to which they have been respectively sent, and are there treated after the manner of persons convicted of the most heinous and detestable crimes."644Lord J. Russell
 said, that strongly as the resolution was worded, he should vote for it, because it expressed the feeling which he believed the great majority of his countrymen entertained, that there had been a most unjust severity of treatment towards those persons who were imprisoned for seditious libels. But what was the punishment which Sir Francis Burdett, who was charged with having—when a mob had been put down by the lawful exercise of the law of the land, and when blood had been shed—with having chosen to write an inflammatory letter, exciting the people against the constituted authorities of the country? That was held to be an offence in the eye of the law, whether justly or not was another question; but he contended, that the same principle ought to be applied to these same persons as had been applied to Sir Francis Burdett and others. Sir Francis Bardett had never been doomed to be washed in a common bath with felons; he had never been made to trot round a ring with felons "for exercise" as it was termed. Sir Francis Burdett had never had inflicted upon him the illegal punishment of the itch. It was the basest and most stupid system of arbitrary power to attempt to confound the two descriptions of offences, and to treat political offences like those of felons.Mr. C. Buller
 said, if he understood the question rightly, it was, whether the hon. Member could read that part of the examination taken before the committee which was expunged, and therefore did not form part of the report. That course might certainly be an inconvenient one, but he was bound to say, that he thought the hon. Member quite in order in adopting it.The Speaker
 said, some hon. Members had expressed surprise that he had taken no part in the debate, but at the period the disturbances which had been adverted to occurred in Birmingham, he was 200 miles distant from that place, and all he knew on the subject was from hearsay. But with respect to the motion before the House, whether the blame—for there was blame somewhere—attached to the Government or to the magistrates, was the same thing to him, and to Lovett and Collins, and as the resolution only stated there was blame, he should support it.Mr. Muntz
 thought it incumbent upon him not to let this occasion pass without protesting against the irregularity of making statements and entering into details, and not concluding with any motion. Such a course would lead to the greatest inconvenience, and was a direct and positive violation of the orders of the House.Mr. Goulburn
642641"Lord Normanby desires me to observe that there ought to be nothing of degradation or personal indignity in the treatment of Mr. O'Connor, nor anything which may operate as an unusual or disproportionate severity, with reference to his state of health or former habits of life."640"I have no objection," said he, "to this motion, which has been brought forward for the purpose of making some observations, which 1 admit that my hon. Friend is justified in making, on this occasion. In passing the Prisons Act, I willingly admit that the Legislature was guilty of negligence in not making some regulations for the treatment of those who might be imprisoned for political offences. So far I agree with my hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, and, when we go into Committee, I shall not have any objection to adopt his amendments." gave credit to the Government for having relied on the ordinary law of the land for suppressing the late disturbances; but thought their error consisted in carrying out the sentences on those convicted with too much severity, and contrary to all former practice. How, for example, was the treatment of Lovett and Collins, conformable with the views propounded by one of the officers of the Government on this subject? A bill for the regulation of prisons having been sent down from the House of Lords before Easter, he then proposed to introduce some amendments respecting those imprisoned for seditious libels, seditious speaking, or attending seditious meetings. When these amendments were under discussion before Easter, the hon. Undersecretary of State for the Home Department described their treatment in the following language, on a motion for papers which immediately preceded the bringing in of the bill:—
642641"Lord Normanby desires me to observe that there ought to be nothing of degradation or personal indignity in the treatment of Mr. O'Connor, nor anything which may operate as an unusual or disproportionate severity, with reference to his state of health or former habits of life."640"I have no objection," said he, "to this motion, which has been brought forward for the purpose of making some observations, which 1 admit that my hon. Friend is justified in making, on this occasion. In passing the Prisons Act, I willingly admit that the Legislature was guilty of negligence in not making some regulations for the treatment of those who might be imprisoned for political offences. So far I agree with my hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, and, when we go into Committee, I shall not have any objection to adopt his amendments."Mr. Warburton
648 said, the noble Lord seemed to vindicate the severity which had been exercised, and the degradation which had been practised towards persons who were now confined for political offences, and the noble Lord defended it boldly, and said the magistrates were not to blame, but that it was the Government that was to blame. What was the crime of these persons? They had endeavoured to bring forward the charter of the people, and to produce a change in the Government. Now, in 1833, what was the state of public feeling, and what was imputed to him, and others on that occasion, when they wanted an extension of the suffrage and an abolition of the abuses of the representation in this House? Did he not recollect the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Pembroke, saying they had gone to the very verge of the law? Every charge that was made against them in 1832, was the same as the charges now brought forward by the noble Lord against these persons on this occasion. The noble Lord had mixed up meetings which were held for obtaining the charter with burning of houses and other offences, and what was the fate of these men, guilty only of political agitation? They were treated like felons. But he asked the House to look at the course pursued by the Tory Government in the cases of Sir Charles Wolsley and Mr. Edmunds. Were they treated as felons? Certainly not. The noble Lord, and those who sat upon the bench with him, were quite as culpable as Carrier, Potts, and Roberts, in getting up public meetings. The noble Lord, in the course he was taking, was acting a most ungenerous part. He did not look at the state of the country, nor the state of feeling naturally excited by the desire to obtain constitutional reform. It was very easy to charge persons with calling a seditious meeting, for if the meeting failed in its object, there was no difficulty in accusing all who attended that meeting with sedition. The noble Lord had not treated the motion of the hon. Member with fairness. If the noble Lord had attended to the tone of public meetings of late, with reference to the treatment of political offenders, he would find there was no necessity to excite public feeling,
648Mr. Hume
: Sir, I rise to order. I would submit whether it be competent for an hon. Member to read and discuss in the House a question which was considered irrelevant by the committee, and was expunged by them.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
617616615614613612611610Edinburgh Review,609lll608Masters in Chancery, each, on an average, sit, besides their attendance on the House of Lords during the sitting of Parliament, 188
608Master of the Rolls and Vice-Chancellor, about 200 days each, five hours daily; 1,000 hours in the year, or 200 days of five hours each.Court of Chancery—Lord Chancellor, in his judicial capacity as such in the Court of Chancery or in the House of Lords, 200 days of four hours daily, or 825 hours in the year, being 165 days of five hours each.Lords Ordinary—103 days; four hours daily, or 412 hours in the year, or eighty-two days of five hours each.Scotch Courts—Inner Houses, 113 days; two hours daily being 226 hours in the year, or a little more than forty-five days of five hours each.exposé607606605604Edinburgh Review,Edinburgh Review,"The Lord President and Lord Gillies, and also by yourself, to retain his situation, and withhold his resignation till after the Summer Session; those two periods of absence being equal, together, to about two-thirds of the judicial year. Can you inform this committee if this advice was offered in the conviction that Lord Corehouse's services could be dispensed with, and that three Judges had been sufficient and would be found sufficient in his absence, to carry on the business of the Court during the long period specified?''603—Sir, if the rule had been otherwise, where, I would ask, is a Member of Committee to seek for justice? I come here for justice. Now, I will proceed with the question—this is where I stopped:—
617616615614613612611610Edinburgh Review,609lll608Masters in Chancery, each, on an average, sit, besides their attendance on the House of Lords during the sitting of Parliament, 188
608Master of the Rolls and Vice-Chancellor, about 200 days each, five hours daily; 1,000 hours in the year, or 200 days of five hours each.Court of Chancery—Lord Chancellor, in his judicial capacity as such in the Court of Chancery or in the House of Lords, 200 days of four hours daily, or 825 hours in the year, being 165 days of five hours each.Lords Ordinary—103 days; four hours daily, or 412 hours in the year, or eighty-two days of five hours each.Scotch Courts—Inner Houses, 113 days; two hours daily being 226 hours in the year, or a little more than forty-five days of five hours each.exposé607606605604Edinburgh Review,Edinburgh Review,"The Lord President and Lord Gillies, and also by yourself, to retain his situation, and withhold his resignation till after the Summer Session; those two periods of absence being equal, together, to about two-thirds of the judicial year. Can you inform this committee if this advice was offered in the conviction that Lord Corehouse's services could be dispensed with, and that three Judges had been sufficient and would be found sufficient in his absence, to carry on the business of the Court during the long period specified?''603Mr. Wallace
602601600"To call the attention of the House to the report of the select committee, appointed to inquire into the administration of the law in the Supreme Court of Scotland; and to move, that an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that in virtue of the provision in the Act 2 and 3 Vic. c. 36, and in consequence of the facts which have been disclosed in the evidence taken before the select committee, appointed to inquire into the administration of the law in the Supreme Court of Scotland, that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to command the thirteen judges of the said Court, to extend the period of their sitting in Court by two calendar months in each year; and that this shall be effected by extending the current summer Session by one month also. Also, to call the at-
600 rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, viz.—
602601600"To call the attention of the House to the report of the select committee, appointed to inquire into the administration of the law in the Supreme Court of Scotland; and to move, that an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that in virtue of the provision in the Act 2 and 3 Vic. c. 36, and in consequence of the facts which have been disclosed in the evidence taken before the select committee, appointed to inquire into the administration of the law in the Supreme Court of Scotland, that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to command the thirteen judges of the said Court, to extend the period of their sitting in Court by two calendar months in each year; and that this shall be effected by extending the current summer Session by one month also. Also, to call the at-
600Mr. Wallace
627"Fourthly. Because this bill, combined with the restrictions of the press which have already passed, or have been announced in this House, is obviously intended to fetter all free discussion, and to repress, if not stifle, the expression of public opinion. Large meetings in periods of political ferment furnish the means of ascertaining the designs and measuring the strength of the malcontents; they tend to disunite and discredit the rash and mischievous agitators of a mistaken multitude, and they not unfrequently serve as a vent, comparatively innoxious, of that ill-humour and discontent, which, if suppressed, might seek refuge in secret cabals and conspiracies, dangerous to the safety of individuals in authority, and subversive of the peace and happiness of society.""Thirdly. Because the numerous assemblies alleged in the preamble to be the occasion and justification of the bill, have been confined to particular districts; but the restrictions and penalties thereof are generally extended to the whole kingdom, and even to Ireland, where no such practices have ever prevailed."Secondly. Because the powers entrusted by this bill to magistrates are liable to great abuse, and those who disobey them exposed to dreadful and disproportionate punishment. On the surmise that a stranger is present in a crowd, or on the application of a vague definition to the words of a notice, or to the language of an orator, a justice of peace may proclaim a meeting to be unlawful, and an Englishman may become a felon for continuing, even through inadvertence, half-an-hour in a spot where no breach of the peace has been committed.626"First. Because the laws of England, when duly enforced, have always been found sufficient to prevent any confusion arising from popular meetings, or to punish any disturbers of the public peace; and a too ready acquiescence in the suggestions of Ministers for imposing new restraints upon the rights and usages of the people—even if the provisions of the bill were in themselves neither harsh nor unreason.
626625624623622"You can form but a very imperfect idea of the feeling and tone of mind which the restraint and monotony of the discipline of a prison entail on those persons who have been used to activity and the exercise of the body, to cheerful conversation, and to all the varieties of political and literary excitement. I possess very little descriptive powers, but I will endeavour briefly to describe the melancholy routine in which I have passed the greater number of days I have been here, varied only by exchanging the loneliness of my cell for scenes of vice and crime, where I have been compelled to mix with persons of the worst description. In the midst of such circumstances you may easily suppose that even books begin at last to lose their attractions. At half-past five in the morning the prison bell rings; at six in the morning you are expected to have your bed rolled up and your room cleaned. Formerly we were obliged to go instantly down to the yard to answer our names when the roll was called, but that has lately been dispensed with. We have to wait some time before we can get a
622621SunSunSun"We call public attention to a police case, which appears under the head of Worship-street this day. In the course of the last six months we have been compelled to make animadversions on the illegal, tyrannical, and intolerable conduct of the new police force, and every fresh occurrence only confirms us in the belief to which that conduct has given rise, that the metropolitan police is the greatest curse that ever afflicted a free people."6201st. That this convention (Mr. Lovett was secretary to the National Convention) is of opinion that a wanton, flagrant, and unjust outrage has been made upon the people of Birmingham by a blood-thirsty and unconstitutional force from London, acting under the authority of men, who when out of office, sanctioned and took part in the meetings of the people; and now, when they share in the public plunder, seek to keep the people in social slavery and political degradation. 2. That the people of Birmingham are the best judges of their own right to meet in the Bull-ring or elsewhere; have their own feelings to consult; and are the best judges of their own power and resources to obtain justice, 3. That the summary and despotic arrest of Dr. Taylor, our respected colleague, affords another convincing proof of the absence of all justice in England, and clearly shows that there is no security for life, liberty, or property till the people have some control over the laws they were called upon to obey."619"Whereas, in the month of July last, two respectable working men, named William Lovett and John Collins, were convicted of publishing a seditious libel, and for the same offence was sentenced to one year's imprisonment in Warwick gaol; and whereas, a large number of persons have since been convicted of offences of a similar character, and the greatest portion of those persons, contrary to custom, are, as well as the above-mentioned William Lovett and John Collins, placed on the criminal side of the gaols to which they have been respectively sent, and are there treated after the manner of persons convicted of the most heinous and detestable crimes; it is the opinion of this House, that such mode of carrying out sentences of imprisonment for political offences, being as uncalled for as unprecedented, ought to be discontinued; and that no greater restraint should be imposed or degradation inflicted upon this class of offenders, than their safe custody requires, and long usage sanctions.'' rose, in pursuance to notice, to move the following resolution—
627"Fourthly. Because this bill, combined with the restrictions of the press which have already passed, or have been announced in this House, is obviously intended to fetter all free discussion, and to repress, if not stifle, the expression of public opinion. Large meetings in periods of political ferment furnish the means of ascertaining the designs and measuring the strength of the malcontents; they tend to disunite and discredit the rash and mischievous agitators of a mistaken multitude, and they not unfrequently serve as a vent, comparatively innoxious, of that ill-humour and discontent, which, if suppressed, might seek refuge in secret cabals and conspiracies, dangerous to the safety of individuals in authority, and subversive of the peace and happiness of society.""Thirdly. Because the numerous assemblies alleged in the preamble to be the occasion and justification of the bill, have been confined to particular districts; but the restrictions and penalties thereof are generally extended to the whole kingdom, and even to Ireland, where no such practices have ever prevailed."Secondly. Because the powers entrusted by this bill to magistrates are liable to great abuse, and those who disobey them exposed to dreadful and disproportionate punishment. On the surmise that a stranger is present in a crowd, or on the application of a vague definition to the words of a notice, or to the language of an orator, a justice of peace may proclaim a meeting to be unlawful, and an Englishman may become a felon for continuing, even through inadvertence, half-an-hour in a spot where no breach of the peace has been committed.626"First. Because the laws of England, when duly enforced, have always been found sufficient to prevent any confusion arising from popular meetings, or to punish any disturbers of the public peace; and a too ready acquiescence in the suggestions of Ministers for imposing new restraints upon the rights and usages of the people—even if the provisions of the bill were in themselves neither harsh nor unreason.
626625624623622"You can form but a very imperfect idea of the feeling and tone of mind which the restraint and monotony of the discipline of a prison entail on those persons who have been used to activity and the exercise of the body, to cheerful conversation, and to all the varieties of political and literary excitement. I possess very little descriptive powers, but I will endeavour briefly to describe the melancholy routine in which I have passed the greater number of days I have been here, varied only by exchanging the loneliness of my cell for scenes of vice and crime, where I have been compelled to mix with persons of the worst description. In the midst of such circumstances you may easily suppose that even books begin at last to lose their attractions. At half-past five in the morning the prison bell rings; at six in the morning you are expected to have your bed rolled up and your room cleaned. Formerly we were obliged to go instantly down to the yard to answer our names when the roll was called, but that has lately been dispensed with. We have to wait some time before we can get a
622621SunSunSun"We call public attention to a police case, which appears under the head of Worship-street this day. In the course of the last six months we have been compelled to make animadversions on the illegal, tyrannical, and intolerable conduct of the new police force, and every fresh occurrence only confirms us in the belief to which that conduct has given rise, that the metropolitan police is the greatest curse that ever afflicted a free people."6201st. That this convention (Mr. Lovett was secretary to the National Convention) is of opinion that a wanton, flagrant, and unjust outrage has been made upon the people of Birmingham by a blood-thirsty and unconstitutional force from London, acting under the authority of men, who when out of office, sanctioned and took part in the meetings of the people; and now, when they share in the public plunder, seek to keep the people in social slavery and political degradation. 2. That the people of Birmingham are the best judges of their own right to meet in the Bull-ring or elsewhere; have their own feelings to consult; and are the best judges of their own power and resources to obtain justice, 3. That the summary and despotic arrest of Dr. Taylor, our respected colleague, affords another convincing proof of the absence of all justice in England, and clearly shows that there is no security for life, liberty, or property till the people have some control over the laws they were called upon to obey."619"Whereas, in the month of July last, two respectable working men, named William Lovett and John Collins, were convicted of publishing a seditious libel, and for the same offence was sentenced to one year's imprisonment in Warwick gaol; and whereas, a large number of persons have since been convicted of offences of a similar character, and the greatest portion of those persons, contrary to custom, are, as well as the above-mentioned William Lovett and John Collins, placed on the criminal side of the gaols to which they have been respectively sent, and are there treated after the manner of persons convicted of the most heinous and detestable crimes; it is the opinion of this House, that such mode of carrying out sentences of imprisonment for political offences, being as uncalled for as unprecedented, ought to be discontinued; and that no greater restraint should be imposed or degradation inflicted upon this class of offenders, than their safe custody requires, and long usage sanctions.''Mr. T. Duncombe
: The publication took place on the 5th of July, and the serious riots and the burnings did not take place until the 14th.Mr. T. Duncombe
"I have received your letter, and think the best thing you can do will be for each to send me a petition, setting forth all the circumstances connected with his case, taking care, that the allegations are short and clear, and above all, that every fact touching your treatment is rather under than over-stated, and I will again to call the attention of the House to the subject.""If you think that a petition would have any effect, and will make it known to us by letter, we will immediately forward one for presentation." rose to explain, with reference to the petition which he had presented, and to which allusion had been made. Vincent wrote to him, informing him of the hardship he endured from the severity of the prison discipline, and added:—
"I have received your letter, and think the best thing you can do will be for each to send me a petition, setting forth all the circumstances connected with his case, taking care, that the allegations are short and clear, and above all, that every fact touching your treatment is rather under than over-stated, and I will again to call the attention of the House to the subject.""If you think that a petition would have any effect, and will make it known to us by letter, we will immediately forward one for presentation."Mr. T. Duncombe
643 complained that, when imprisonment was all that the law-awarded for crime, other means should be silently adopted, by which the imprisonment was turned into something very dif-
643Mr. Serjeant Talfourd
628 seconded the motion. He would not enter into many topics which had been adverted to by his hon. Friend, conceiving as he did that their business was to consider the treatment which these unfortunate prisoners had received while in prison. With their sentences they had nothing to do. They had been duly tried according to law, by juries to whom they did not object. The question was, how had they been treated in gaol? The system of punishment which by our forefathers had been intended to operate as a check upon crime, had been, in the case of these prisoners, converted into a torture which was calculated to turn them into savages. It was calculated to make them the worst beings that ever existed in the human form—to eradicate every feeling of virtue, and substitute one universal feeling
628Mr. Wakley
 expressed a hope that, before the House came to a vote on the question, the noble Lord, the organ of her Majesty's Government in that House, would make some announcement calculated to induce his hon. Friend to withdraw the motion. Although he wished and expected that this announcement would be satisfactory to his hon. Friend, he still must take the liberty of saying that he thought there was room for much improvement in the system of prison discipline. The motion if pressed to a division should have his support.Mr. Ward
ex officioex officio654 said, no one regretted more than he did, any unnecessary harshness that might have been shown to those convicted in the recent prosecutions. He believed, that when such cases were brought before the consideration of the Government, they had been corrected as soon as the information had been received. But when he found attempts made to excite sympathy in favour of those convicted by exclaiming against the new hardships of instituting these convictions, he felt it his duty to enter his protest against it. In former times, political offences were understood to be attacks upon the Minister of the day. Whatever gave offence to the feelings of individuals was a libel, and the Attorney-generals of former times used to file informations ex officio for such publications as libels. He was not then going to enter into an invidious distinction between the present and past Govern
ex officioex officio654The Attorney-General
652651650649 said, in the last and preceding Sessions, when the country broke out into disturbance, he had strenuously advocated the propriety of trying the efficacy of the old laws, before the Government resorted to new laws. On that, as on other occasions, he had noticed a disposition to underrate the real vigour of the existing statute laws of England; and when he gave the advice which he did on those occasions, it was in the expectation that the laws as they then stood, would be carried into effect with vigour and impartiality. He expected that two classes would be found on whom it would be necessary to enforce the law. The first class consisted of ignorant persons who resorted to physical force to carry out their objects; and the next class were those who had deluded those ignorant persons—who, by means of superior art and the power that the press afford them, brought physical force into action—themselves remaining in the back ground in safety. He had sympathy for those ignorant and deluded men who broke the law by overt acts. He repeated, he had more sympathy for those poor men than for those who perverted the public press—an engine that ought to be used only for the purpose of spreading sound information—to mercenary and wicked objects, thereby deluding others, and, if successful, coming forward and reaping, as assuredly they would—the whole of the harvest; but in case of failure, leaving their dupes to sustain the whole weight of punishment. He had no sympathy for that seditious class of libellers who worked on popular feeling by putting forth exaggerated statements—who dealt in falsehoods or perversions of facts. For such persons, he confessed, he felt no sympathy; but at the same time those persons ought not to be subjected to any punishment which the law did not sanction. But the question now was, did the law, asit at present stood, authorise the infliction which
652651650649Sir R. Peel
695 was glad to see men of all parties joining in one unanimous expression of sympathy in the position of the state of Cracow, and of regret at the violation of treaties. He entirely concurred with the right hon. Baronet, that had more active measures been taken by Government at an earlier period, this usurpation would have been put a stop to, and
695Mr. Colquhoun
708l.l.,l.l.l.707706 observed that the question now raised by the hon. and gallant Officer appeared to him to possess much constitutional importance. It was always painful to enter into a discussion upon topics of a personal nature; but as the vote in the present instance was made to rest almost entirely upon the merits of the learned doctor, he must be allowed to observe that he could not agree in the estimate which the noble Lord (Palmerston) seemed disposed to place upon the services
708l.l.,l.l.l.707706Mr. D'Israeli
s.s.l. had come prepared to support the claim of Dr. Bowring, but from what he had heard he would now give his vote on constitutional grounds. He did not think, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had, by his advocacy improved the case, and was surprised to hear him treat 3s.s.l.Mr. Hamilton
714 said, the right hon. Baronet had condemned the employment of a person in the capacity of Dr. Bowring as unnecessary, in conjunction with the large diplomatic service that the country had to maintain, and which ought to furnish any information that was required. He was not indisposed to admit the justice of that observation, but what was the remedy? Why, to appoint only efficient persons to those situations, persons who would furnish the requisite information, and what assurance could the right hon. Baronet offer, or had a prospect of offering, that such appointments would be made? Could he, or could any Minister, set at defiance the influence which was brought to bear upon him by those who really constituted the legislative power in the country, and who chiefly sought these situations? Had the right hon. Baronet set that influence at defiance? And could he, should he again be placed in office? Would the right hon. Baronet say, that high diplomatic situations were always given according to the merits of the individuals who sought them, or could he deny that they were bestowed chiefly from political influence in this House or in the other? Such being the case, were the commercial classes of this country to be deprived of information that they desired to obtain, or to have their statements questioned, because our ministers and ambassadors were inefficient, or was the House to act in ignorance, because there were no official documents before it to refer to. These agents for commercial purposes, though evils, were rendered requisite by the necessity of the case, and the result of Dr. Bowring's mission had been the collection of valuable information bearing importantly upon great questions in agitation, and he could not but think that if the conclusions to which the evidence he collected led, had been more favourable or convenient to the views of hon. Members opposite, that he would not have been selected for so prominent an attack. With what had been said of the policy of employing Members of this House for this purpose, he did not disagree, but really he thought that they should judge of the case upon its own
714Mr. Villiers
 must say, that it seemed extraordinary that it required four years to settle the internal affairs of a small state like Cracow. But when the noble Lord told them that the allied powers intended to withdraw their garrisons, he had not also told them that they intended to restore the independence of Cracow, according to the provisions of the treaty. According to the statement of the right hon. Baronet, the representatives of those powers had erected themselves into a permanent conference, and they would not allow the interference of the Senate of Cracow. Yet Cracow was a sovereign state—more a sovereign state than the Hanse Towns or Hamburgh—and her rights having been secured by the treaty of Vienna, we, as parties to that treaty, ought to, at least, protest—as the noble Lord said he had done—although of that protest Parliament was as yet ignorant—against its violation.Lord Eliot
 observed that the hon. and gallant Member had stated that he had been recommended by some of his friends to bring forward his motion in the committee of supply rather than in its present form. The result of the hon. Gentleman's speech showed how prudent this advice was, and he trusted that the House would not support the hon. Member, but at once consent to go into the committee, as there were some votes which it was most desirable to take without delay. The hon. Member might then, if he thought proper, submit his motion in a regular form.Lord John Russell
713 would make a very few observations only. The right hon. Baronet had said that, according to the Act of Anne, Dr. Bowring held an office, and ought to have vacated his seat. He believed that an employment of this kind, which was not a regular office, and to which no regular salary was annexed, did not come under the operation of that Act. There were precedents of the kind, and his opinion was that there might be special occasions, in which a person being fitted for the service in which he had been employed, and it being for the public interest that he particularly should be employed rather than any other, the remuneration should be permitted. If indeed it were done in the way which the right hon. Baronet had alluded to, namely, to secure the services of a Member of Parliament, who was not exactly fitted for the task, it would be a most objectionable practice. He admitted, that if it were not done rarely, and for a very good purpose, it
713Lord John Russell
 observed, that it was better that the estimate should be postponed, as there appeared to be some doubt as to the regularity of the proceeding. He had attended her Majesty in Council that day, and the impression on his mind was, that the application had not formerly been completed.Lord John Russell
 appeared at the bar with a Message from the Throne. It was brought up and read by the Speaker. (See Lords Ante.)Lord John Russell
"That a humble address be presented to her Majesty, thanking her Majesty for her most gracious communication, recommending this House to take into its consideration a contingency that may hereafter take place, and to make such provisions as in any event may secure the exercise of the Royal authority, and to assure her Majesty that this House will be prepared to concur in such measures as may appear best calculated to maintain unimpaired the power and dignity of the Crown, and thereby strengthen those securieties that protest the rights and liberties of the people." said, that it was the intention of her Majesty's advisers to introduce a bill into the other House of Parliament, founded on the gracious message which had just been read; but as it would not appear respectful to delay the acknowledgment of her Majesty's gracious message, he would at once propose—
"That a humble address be presented to her Majesty, thanking her Majesty for her most gracious communication, recommending this House to take into its consideration a contingency that may hereafter take place, and to make such provisions as in any event may secure the exercise of the Royal authority, and to assure her Majesty that this House will be prepared to concur in such measures as may appear best calculated to maintain unimpaired the power and dignity of the Crown, and thereby strengthen those securieties that protest the rights and liberties of the people."Lord John Russell
716 objected to the committee proceeding any further with the bill to-night, and to the practice of Government introducing a variety of new
716Colonel Perceval
 thought that these bills were introduced for party purposes; and he should therefore persist in his motion.Colonel Perceval
699 did not object to the amount of this vote; on the contrary, it was for the maintenance of so important and useful an institution, that he most readily assented to it. At the same time, he could not help feeling that this great national institution might be improved by forming a board according to the recommendation of a committee of the heads of the several departments, by whom it might be considered what improvements might be made therein. He also thought it objectionable to close the King's library, to the public, merely
699Mr. Hawes
d.lll. moved that the grant be 66,420d.lll.Colonel Sibthorp
697l.l.l.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.s.l.696 rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the sums paid to Dr. Bowring. He begged in the outset to say, that his motion was not directed against that gentleman personally—he had no complaint to make against him—he was a man of great talent, and one who, no doubt, faithfully discharged his duties; but
697l.l.l.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.s.l.696Colonel Sibthorp
704l.l.l."With respect to remuneration he could affirm that no sum of money had been received for this report by the hon. Member, nor would any sum be received by him for it."703l. said, that the noble Lord, with a dexterity which it was impossible not to admire, had contrived to pass by the whole of the gist and merits of the question now before the Committee, and had devoted himself almost exclusively to the discussion of the merits of Dr. Bowring, against which, at the present moment, he (Mr. Goulburn) did not wish to say a word. The point upon which he wished to speak was one entirely of a general and constitutional nature. It appeared that Dr. Bowring had been paid, in the course of nine years, 11,000704l.l.l."With respect to remuneration he could affirm that no sum of money had been received for this report by the hon. Member, nor would any sum be received by him for it."703l.Mr. Goulburn
683la citta dolente,"682Portfolio,681680 said, after the full and able manner in which this subject has been brought forward by my hon. Friend, it will not be necessary for me to intrude upon the House for any length of time, but having on a former occasion raised my voice, however unavailingly, for Poland, I cannot now behold Cracow, in the very agonies of approaching dissolution, without uttering one word in her behalf, for Cracow is a remnant, the last remnant of the Polish cause, therefore, perhaps, is she odious in the eyes of the oppressor —therefore, perhaps, is she trampled under foot; not a spark must exist lest the fire should be kindled again, but therefore will Cracow be interesting to all whose hearts bled for Poland, and they will renew their exertions to snatch from destruction the little, the all, that remains. This House has heard the history of Cra-
683la citta dolente,"682Portfolio,681680Mr. H. Gally Knight
709 said, if the subject had been argued merely as a constitutional question, he (Mr. Labouchere) should have been perfectly satisfied to leave the debate on that side of the House with the speeches made by his noble Friend (Lord Palmerston) and by the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but alter what had been said of Dr. Bowring, having, in the course of his official duties, had opportunities of witnessing the zeal and ability with which that learned gentleman discharged the various important duties that were imposed upon him, he felt bound, not so much in justice to Dr. Bowring as from a sense of duty incumbent upon himself, not to allow the discussion to terminate without offering a very few observations. The hon. Gentleman had stated that, having carefully considered the various reports furnished by Dr. Bowring, he had been led to form a very low estimate of that gentleman's talent and ability. He could only say, that he had never heard that opinion expressed by anybody else. He firmly believed, that the hon. Gentleman was the only individual by whom, in the course of this or any other debate, such an opinion had been uttered. In the commercial world, at least, the labours of Dr. Bowring were not held in the low estimation in which the hon. Gentleman appeared to hold them. It was generally acknowledged, that the various reports he had furnished contained a greal deal of most valuable information upon topics of great interest and great importance. With respect to the late report in reference to the Germanic union, he (Mr. Labouchere) could only say, that he believed the task, by no means an easy one, had been executed with great zeal, ability, and discretion, and that the result of his labours was to furnish the country with a mass of most valuable information. He could not assent to the doctrine that the employment of special missions for special purposes had the effect of casting any reflec-
709Mr. Labouchere
 said, he was one that had received considerable information from the reports of Dr. Bowring, and with regard to his labours, he thought that he had been most miserably rewarded. He never had the means of acquiring so much information as the reports of Dr. Bowring furnished him with: and the only fault of Dr. Bowring, in the eyes of Gentlemen opposite, was, that he had been diligent and had given a faithful report.Mr. Hume
 had always viewed the violation of these treaties as a step of which no man ought to approve, and he was happy to hear them condemned by the right hon. Baronet. He did not believe, that any Member of that House had ever expressed his assent to them, for they must all entertain feelings directly opposed to what had taken place in reference to British commerce. He hoped that the Government would persevere in their efforts to maintain international justice, and that they would ultimately compel the aggressive powers to retire from the occupation of Cracow, and thus put an end to the violation of treaties which now existed.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l. had to propose a supplementary vote for the Navy Estimates, and as he did not anticipate there would be any objection to his proposition, it was unnecessary for him to take up the time of the committee. The amount which he had to propose was 165,023l.l.l.l.l.Mr. More O'Ferrall
l. moved the remaining estimates and civil contingencies. The vote proposed was, that 70,000l.Mr. R. Gordon
l.705 said, that two points had been mooted by the right hon. Gentleman, who had just sat down, upon which he thought it necessary to make a few remarks. The first position of the right hon. Gentleman was, that any payments of this description made to Members of this House were contrary to the letter and spirit of the constitution, and the second, that in the present instance such payments had been made in a deceitful manner. With regard to the first of these positions he would ask, had Parliament ever laid down as a principle that in no case the Government might give remuneration to a Member of this House for public services without subjecting him to the vacation of his seat? He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) thought not, for he certainly had heard of cases of a much stronger nature than that of Dr. Bowring, in which payments to Members of this House had been made and sanctioned by an express vote of Parliament. If he recollected rightly, the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Dundee, sat for several years in this House, whilst receiving the salary of Chairman of the Excise. Mr. Blackburn, also, whose loss they must all deplore, sat in this House whilst receiving salary as a commissioner inquiring into the corporations of England; he was appointed to this situation before he obtained his seat; he continued it afterwards, and received the payments attached to his appointment during the whole time he sat in Parliament. Mr. Frankland Lewis also sat in this House whilst receiving the salary of a commissioner of education in Ireland. There was another case also which occurred to him, which was not exactly similar, to the present; he referred to that of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, who sat in this House whilst employed, and paid under the church commission. It might be said that this hon.
l.705The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not object to the additional amount proposed to be voted for the naval estimates, as he thought it was called for by the increased number of ships afloat, and by the importance of having them efficiently armed and manned. He could not help observing, however, that the usual form had not been adhered to in submitting this estimate to the House, and he therefore wished to know whether it had previously been submitted to the approval of the Queen in Council. When he was a member of the Board of Admiralty, he knew that it was considered necessary that a member of that body should submit the navy estimates to the House, and that he should be able to enter into any explanations that were requisite.Sir G. Clerk
 was extremely glad, to find that the recommendations of the naval and military commission had been attended to; he regretted, however, that the situation of mates serving in the royal navy had not met with that attention which their merits entitled them to.Captain Pechell
694693692691690 said, no person was more impressed than himself with the necessity of proceeding with caution with respect to matters of which the House was but imperfectly informed, and the conduct of which might naturally affect our amicable arrangements with foreign powers. He agreed with the noble Lord, that there was
694693692691690Sir R. Peel
 desired to know if the proposition to which the noble Lord referred took for its basis any other proposition which had proceeded from the United States, or was altogether a new proposition which the American government were at liberty to accept or reject, as they thought proper?Sir R Peel
l. proposed that 29,953l.Sir R. Peel
700l.l. declared that it was the object of the trustees to give every accommodation to the public consistent-with the preservation of the books and the property. As to the holidays, the whole of these which the officers enjoyed were six days in January, six days in May, and six days in September, with Ash-Wednesday, Good-Friday, and days of fast and thanksgiving. It had been suggested, by a committee of that House, that the heads of the subordinate departments should meet quarterly to consider the details in those departments, so as to suggest an improvement in them. It was in the British Museum, as in every other public department, that every one was proud of that portion with which he was connected, and most anxious to set it off to the greatest advantage. He thought, then, that the calling of them together for the purpose of making suggestions, would not be the best way of making an arrangement. The trustees received suggestions separately from the heads of the departments, and then decided upon them; while the determination of subordinate officers, if acted upon, would, he feared, only lead to an increase in the building, and a large addition to the public expense. As to the casts, it was his opinion that they should not make many of them; but then on the other hand, he did not think that they ought to expend the public money in making casts. Last year they had asked the Government for 800700l.l.Sir R. Peel
"Non ego hoc ferrem calidus inventâ,
Consule Planco."712711s.s.l.s.s.l.l.710 said, that in 1837, when Dr. Bowring was in Parliament, his right hon. Friend objected to any payment
"Non ego hoc ferrem calidus inventâ,
Consule Planco."712711s.s.l.s.s.l.l.710Sir R. Peel
679678Foreign Quarterly Review677"The misfortunes which overwhelm the free city of Cracow and its inhabitants are such that the undersigned see no further hope for themselves and their fellow citizens than in the powerful and enlightened protection of the governments of France and England. The situation in which we find ourselves placed gives us the right to invoke the intervention of every power that subscribed the treaty of Vienna."non avenue"The undersigned, &c, having considered the address to their august Sovereigns, of which the senate of the free city has been pleased to communicate a copy to them, and which address was voted by the Chamber of Representatives, found themselves under the necessity of declaring that this document does not appear to them of a nature fitted to be carried to the foot of the Thrones of their Majesties, and they hasten to let his Excellency the President know that the address is to be considered as null (non avenue676"We do not come this day to claim any kind of new constitutional right; all our wishes are confined to those which it is allowed to your Majesties' faithful subjects to frame. All our desires tend to no other object but to be able, to enjoy with a certain degree of security a calm and tranquil existence in a state of prosperity obtained by assiduous and productive labour. We beseech your Majesties to delegate a new commission equally impartial and conscientious to verify the actual stale of things and ascertain our innocence. We beseech you to restore to the senate its former authority, and by replacing it at the head of all the powers of the state to re-establish the unity of the Government which no longer exists."675"It is, no doubt, come to the knowledge of your Majesties that for some years past, the trade and industry of our country have been ruined, and the sources of its prosperity dried up. In fact, it would be difficult to find a country where this state of impoverishment and general misery is more striking than in ours
675"The commercial intercourse which had taken place between this country and the republic of Cracow had been productive of the most favourable results; The export chiefly consisted of the British manufactered goods, and of the produce of our colonies. That this trade, which for a period of sixteen years appeared so promising, has been, through the occupation of Cracow by foreign troops, entirely destroyed."674673"All the sovereign slates in Europe with the exception of Spain and the Pope sent, in succession, their entire adherence to the general treaty of the 9th June, 1815, conformably to the invitation contained in the 119th Article of the same treaty. Prince Metternich, as the president of the congress, had been charged to invite that ratification; and the parties engaged in it concurred in a formal and solemn manner, either as accessories or as principals to the execution of the treaty. There resulted from that mode of agreement and stipulation a general, complete, and reciprocal guarantee of all the dispositions of the general treaty."History of the Events of the Congress672671 said, that in the former part of the present Session he had called the attention of the House to the situation of Cracow, and he presumed it would be recollected that so long as four years ago he had first drawn the attention of the public to the condition of a state which had been established on one of the most solemn compacts of modern times—which had been invested with sovereign power, and which it was now most painful to see occupied by foreign troops, and under subjection to foreign authority. Cracow was a small state, and remote from the shores of England; but it was important on account of its situation, and it was interesting because it formed an original and integral part of the great European system of national policy. The subject which he had undertaken to bring before the House was one which involved considerations deeply affecting the character of this country, her influence with foreign nations, and her most important interests as a commercial and maritime power; and notwithstanding the positive assurances put forth upon the subject, that the occupation was merely temporary, he yet could not regard it, nor could any man contemplate such a state of things, without feelings painfully aggravated by the reflection that nothing had yet been accomplished towards the relief of that state. He trusted the House would agree with him, that on the present occasion it was not necessary to offer any apology for resorting
679678Foreign Quarterly Review677"The misfortunes which overwhelm the free city of Cracow and its inhabitants are such that the undersigned see no further hope for themselves and their fellow citizens than in the powerful and enlightened protection of the governments of France and England. The situation in which we find ourselves placed gives us the right to invoke the intervention of every power that subscribed the treaty of Vienna."non avenue"The undersigned, &c, having considered the address to their august Sovereigns, of which the senate of the free city has been pleased to communicate a copy to them, and which address was voted by the Chamber of Representatives, found themselves under the necessity of declaring that this document does not appear to them of a nature fitted to be carried to the foot of the Thrones of their Majesties, and they hasten to let his Excellency the President know that the address is to be considered as null (non avenue676"We do not come this day to claim any kind of new constitutional right; all our wishes are confined to those which it is allowed to your Majesties' faithful subjects to frame. All our desires tend to no other object but to be able, to enjoy with a certain degree of security a calm and tranquil existence in a state of prosperity obtained by assiduous and productive labour. We beseech your Majesties to delegate a new commission equally impartial and conscientious to verify the actual stale of things and ascertain our innocence. We beseech you to restore to the senate its former authority, and by replacing it at the head of all the powers of the state to re-establish the unity of the Government which no longer exists."675"It is, no doubt, come to the knowledge of your Majesties that for some years past, the trade and industry of our country have been ruined, and the sources of its prosperity dried up. In fact, it would be difficult to find a country where this state of impoverishment and general misery is more striking than in ours
675"The commercial intercourse which had taken place between this country and the republic of Cracow had been productive of the most favourable results; The export chiefly consisted of the British manufactered goods, and of the produce of our colonies. That this trade, which for a period of sixteen years appeared so promising, has been, through the occupation of Cracow by foreign troops, entirely destroyed."674673"All the sovereign slates in Europe with the exception of Spain and the Pope sent, in succession, their entire adherence to the general treaty of the 9th June, 1815, conformably to the invitation contained in the 119th Article of the same treaty. Prince Metternich, as the president of the congress, had been charged to invite that ratification; and the parties engaged in it concurred in a formal and solemn manner, either as accessories or as principals to the execution of the treaty. There resulted from that mode of agreement and stipulation a general, complete, and reciprocal guarantee of all the dispositions of the general treaty."History of the Events of the Congress672671Sir S. Canning
 inquired whether he was to infer from the silence of the noble Lord that he had received the address and memorial said to have been sent by the inhabitants of Cracow to the Government of this country and that of France?Sir Stratford Canning
 said, these bills were for advancing the general interests of the country, if, therefore, the hon. and gallant Member persisted in his opposition, he should certainly divide the House upon it.Viscount Morpeth
 had received the paper to which the right hon. Gentleman referred.Viscount Palmerston
689exequatur.688687l.l.;l.l.686685684 said, the right hon. Gentleman seemed to think there was something in his Parliamentary career, in respect to the present Government, which made it necessary for him, as a matter of fairness and candour, to undeceive the Government, and take from them any false hopes they might entertain of obtaining his support, by assuring them in the commencement of his speech, that he disapproved of all their policy, both domestic and foreign. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman, that no such explanation was necessary to set the Government right with respect to his views and intentions. The Ministers were quite aware that they had incurred the misfortune of the right hon. Gentleman's disapprobation, but they endeavoured to bear it as well as they could; and perhaps it was the forti-
689exequatur.688687l.l.;l.l.686685684Viscount Palmerston
 said, that the proposition sent out by her Majesty's Government, was founded on that received last year from the American government.Viscount Palmerston
702701 said, that the employment of Dr. Bowring had certainly in no way altered his conduct as a Member of that House; for there had been various occasions during the intervals of his employment in which Dr. Bowring had not voted with the Government. Nor had Dr. Bowring's employment been detrimental to his constituents, for on each occasion the employment had taken place in the recess. The selection of Dr. Bowring, in all other respects, he con-
702701Viscount Palmerston
670 said, that he thought it might be satisfactory to the House to know that her Majesty's Government had sent out a proposition in answer to one which had proceeded from the United States, and
670Lord Palmerston
723 seconded the motion. He
723Mr. Hamilton
730 did not understand the argument of the noble Lord, founded upon what he supposed to be the tendency of the proposition before the House. In his opinion the tendency of it, if adopted, would be to give the people better habits and better tastes. But the noble Lord was apprehensive that it would have some indirect and remote tendency to introduce other amusements on the Sabbath; and thus ultimately assimilate the Sabbath to the other days of the week. No doubt to the extent of opening the British Museum and National Gallery, this would have such a tendency; but it would be in the smallest possible point. But the noble Lord went further, and said—"I have no objection to the motion in itself, but I object to it because it may hereafter be urged in favour of some other proposition—for admitting of some further amusement on the Sabbath." And why should it not? Why should not each case rest upon its own merits? He would not relax any regulation where the relaxation of it would be improper, but he could not go the length which the noble Lord had done, and say, "I admit that the opening of the British Museum on the Sunday is not wrong in itself, but I oppose such an arrangement, because it may, by possibility, have a very remote tendency to the adoption of other arrangements that may be in themselves wrong." The noble Lord,
730Mr. Aglionby
 regretted that the motion had been brought forward at so late a period of the Session; but as the hon. Member had not stated the scope of his inquiries, or to what colonies he would confine the inquiries of the committee, he thought that this motion could not be agreed to by the House. Whether he would consent to the appointment of a committee next session he would reserve to that session to determine. Now, he must oppose the hon. Member's motion, promising that the Colonial-office would in the meantime duly and fairly attend to the interests of the colonists, as well as the welfare of the persons who might emigrate.Mr. Vernon Smith
729728 found it very difficult to argue this question upon the comparative harm or innocence of particular kinds of amusement or places of recreation. The hon. Member for Bridport had gone on to state that so and so was allowed—that no objection was made against persons walking in the Park, or going to the Zoological Gardens, or to their visiting private galleries of pictures on the Sabbath. He did not contest in any way the views of the hon. Gentleman with regard to these examples. But precisely the same argument might be urged in any future year, should the present motion be acceded to, by quoting the very instance now contended for. It might be said, "Why, you allow the British Museum and the National Gallery to be opened on the Sunday, surely there can be no harm in having some place opened where the rational drama may be enacted." Yes, it might be said, the people were admitted to the British Museum, and the other places of amusement, and, therefore, the same line of argument that was now used by his hon. Friend in favour of this motion, would, be used, after the motion was carried, in favour of almost anything else on the Sabbath, which they did not consider was in itself vicious on a weekday. By acceding to the present motion they would be obliged, also, in consistency, to admit of other amusements on the Sabbath, until, in fact, there would at last be no difference between the observance of that day, and any other day in the week. At the same time he did not defend the consistency of the present practice in every particular amusement that was now permitted on the Sunday. But what he
729728Lord John Russell
 thought that the newborn zeal of Gentlemen on the other side of the House for the supply of free labour to the West Indies was but an ill recompense for their late vote against the Government plan. If they were so deeply convinced of the necessity for a provision, they ought, at least, to have stated the grounds why they opposed the introduction of the Hill Coolies into the Mauritius. No more important subject could occupy the attention of the House, and it was necessary both for the interests of the colonies and of humanity that something should be done without delay, and he hoped that they would come prepared next session to legislate upon the subject, the public being first satisfied of its propriety by the inquiries of the Government.Mr. C. Buller
 could see no difference between persons going to the British Museum and to the Zoological-gardens of a Sunday. In the one case they saw the images of animals, and in the other they saw the animals themselves. The question seemed to him to be this; whether, if this proposition was adopted, those who now went to places of public worship would be drawn from them to go to the British Museum. He thought not, but he thought that many of those persons who never went to church or chapel, but resorted to places from which they had much better keep away, would, if it were open to them, go to the British Museum, and be thereby improved in their tastes and habits.Mr. Muntz
727726 said, far from the resolution proposed being the best mode of
727726Mr. Goulburn
725 said, that such an observance of the Sunday as the arguments of the hon. Member for Oxford would tend to, had never been practised in this country. Very few persons scrupled
725Mr. Warburton
 by no means regretted the vote that had been lately come to by the House, because the Government has not, and never had, a control over the authorities of the Mauritius; and if there was to be an emigration that would succeed, it must be under the superintendence of Government, and it must be directed to those countries over which the Government had some control. But, before the House was called upon to give its consent to any measure, all the details ought to be laid before them.—House counted out.Mr. Warburton
722721 rose pursuant to notice, to move that an humble address be presented to her Majesty, that she will be pleased to recommend to the trustees of the British Museum, and to the trustees of the National Gallery, that those places be opened for the admission of the public on Sundays, after divine service, at such hours as the houses of licensed victuallers, of sellers of beer, and of keepers of gin shops are now legally open to the public. The object of his motion was to improve the moral and religious character of the people. He begged hon. Members to look for a moment at the way in which the Sunday was now spent by the humble classes. The higher classes had Zoological Gardens, and other places of pleasant and instructive recreation to resort to; but the humble working man, after a week of hard toil, after labouring from Monday morning till Saturday night, to a degree unequalled in any other part of the world, had few other places to resort to on the Sunday except the public-house. One of the first objects of a wise Legislature ought to be to provide places of innocent, healthful, and instructive recreation for the mass of the community, for those who, during the greater part by far of their lives were condemned to earn their bread by the sweat of their brows. They ought to be provided not only with the means of taking healthful exercise of the body, but they ought also to be provided with the means of obtaining wholesome mental instruction. At present, any person who took the trouble
722721Mr. Hume
732 said, that the motion of which he had given notice, had for its object the appointment of a select committee to investigate the propriety of allowing immigration of free labourers from the East Indies, not only into the Mauritius and British Guiana, but into every part of the British dominions. This was a measure of great importance, and he brought it forward without any party feeling whatever, or with any desire to give annoyance to her Majesty's Government. His wish was, that it should undergo a calm and clear consideration, in order to come to a satisfactory result. The Colonial Office, however good their intentions, did not possess sufficient information to enable them or the country to form a judicious and just opinion upon the subject. He would therefore move for the appointment "of a Select Committee, to investigate if it be in accordance with humanity, justice and good policy, to sanction, by Legislative enactments, the immigration of labourers from the East Indies and other parts of the world
732Mr. Mackinnon
724 said, he had hoped that her Majesty's Government, as the representatives for the time being of the interests of religion in that House, would have thought it necessary to say a few words upon an occasion like the present. Although nothing could be further from the concerns of party than the motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, yet he did think that the occasion was one in which the Government ought to have felt it to be their duty to interfere for the purpose of preventing the success of any such proposition. There was no part of the speech of the hon. Member opposite which more surprised him than the delusion by which he appeared to be carried away, when he said, that his proposition was calculated to improve morality and promote religion, that its tendency would be to elevate the religious character of the people. One tendency of it undoubtedly would be to violate what the hon. Member might call the unfounded prejudices, but what he should call the conscientious convictions, of the people of England. The hon. mover said, he did not wish to do anything calculated to desecrate the Sabbath; but let the House recollect, that the hon. Member assumed that the Sabbath might be subdivided, and that one portion of it might be given to profane purposes, if another were devoted to religion. Where in the divine law did anything of that sort appear? What authority was there for assuming, that a day in seven was set apart in order that one moiety of it should be given to public amusements and the other to religious exercises? The hon. Member for the present confined himself to the British Museum and the National Gallery; but would he, or those who thought with him, stop there? Would they not demand admission for the public to the Tower, and to all other places which were supposed to be national property? He therefore regarded this as the first step towards opening all sorts of public exhibitions, and the effect of such a measure would be to render it compulsory upon all the officers of those institutions to labour
724Sir R. Inglis
 was aware of the inutility of appointing a committee at this late period, but he was pleased to hear that the attention of the Government was so strenuously directed to this question. He hoped that a plan might be fixed upon which would benefit all parties.Viscount Sandon
 understood from the hon. Gentleman the bill was not to come on that evening. Some hon. Friends of his, who intended to oppose the bill, were absent.Mr. Goulburn
 had made no promise not to bring on the bill that evening. He should not have brought on the bill in the absence of the right hon. Gentleman; but certainly he did not, in the communication he made to the right hon. Gentleman, contemplate the absence of any other Member of that House.Mr. Hawes
737736735 hoped that his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Ipswich, would not press this bill during the present Session. If he should press it, it would place him (the Attorney-general) in a most painful and embarrassing situation. He had always been a warm friend to the abolition of the punishment of death in all cases where it was practicable, and
737736735The Attorney General
per incuriam740739738 must express the very great concern which he felt, that in pursuing the course which he intended to pursue upon that occasion, he should give the slightest displeasure to his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-general. But at the same time he should not act as his strong sense of duty prompted him, if he acceded upon that occasion to the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend. His hon. and learned Friend implied that he had taken the present matter out of the hands of the Government and the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies. Now upon that point he should take the liberty of reminding the hon. Gentlemen opposite, that before he had ventured to undertake a measure of that kind, he had distinctly asked whether the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, or any member of the present Government, in-
per incuriam740739738Mr. Kelly
742741 did not think the hon. and learned Gentleman had correctly represented the course which his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-general, and the Members of the Government had taken upon this question. He had stated, that the Attorney-general had now, for the first time, stated his objections to proceeding with this bill in the present Session. But he had taken exactly the same course when the hon. Gentleman first proposed to bring in the bill. He, on, that occasion, stated the reasons why he thought it inexpedient to proceed with the subject this Session, and the Attorney-general had only repeated those reasons, with other objections taken to the bill itself. At the same time, he did not mean to say, that that opposition was what the hon. Gentleman now stated it to be— namely, an opposition to the principle of the bill. Neither he nor his learned Friend, the Attorney-general, denied that
742741Lord J. Russell
 said, that he certainly did introduce a clause in his bill of 1837 to the same effect, but it was struck out by the Lords, upon the ground that it was a crime partaking very much of the character of treason; that it was a very high offence against the state, and was one which, not being frequently committed, was not lightly to be made the means of depriving persons of life wantonly or unnecessarily. It was, therefore, considered that this safeguard as it were to the state, and as a matter concerning the means by which the state was enabled to carry on its defence, should be preserved. He confessed, upon considering these arguments afterwards, his opinion was, that they were well-founded, and that he was mistaken in his original proposition; he, therefore, should move the omission of this paragraph.Lord John Russell
 concurred in the views of the noble Lord. The offences as defined by this paragraph was nothing short of levying war against the Queen; he hoped his hon. and learned Friend would not consider the omission of the paragraph an invasion of the principle of his bill.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 believed first thoughts were generally best, and the noble Lord's original proposition was most in accordance with the enlightened dictates of humanity and sound policy. There was a clear distinction between such offences involving merely the destruction of property and cases of high treason. He hoped the paragraph would not be expunged from the preamble.Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
743 understood, that the leading principle of the noble Lord's own bill in 1837 had been to exempt from capital punishment all offences merely against property, leaving those connected with violence or danger to the person liable to
743Mr. Kelly
 put the case of ships being fired at sea, which having always a supply of gunpowder on board would endanger the lives of hundreds of her Majesty's subjects. Was not that an offence for which it was fitting the capital punishment should be retained?Mr. F. Maule
 said, in case lives were sacrificed, and if the person committing the crime did not himself perish in the conflagration, he would doubtless be indicted for murder.Mr. Aglionby
 said, his mind had been much shaken by what had fallen from the hon. Under-Secretary (Mr. F. Maule.) Suppose the case of a ship in Portsmouth harbour, and an individual from malice going and attempting to set it on fire, was there a crime more abominable than that of setting fire to a ship with perhaps 800 persons on board; and if the individual avoided the crime of actual murder in such a case, were they not to punish him for this most diabolical act? He would punish the intent to murder as severely as murder itself.Mr. C. Buller
 was anxious to retain the paragraph. Nothing was more frequent than for charges of this nature to be preferred for the mere purpose of forcing a marriage, which showed the danger of having such a punishment for this crime.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 hoped the clause would be allowed to stand without any alteration. Charges of this nature were often preferred from conspiracy. He objected to keeping the punishment of death for this offence on our statute-book, when the punishment was virtually repealed; for in every instance where persons had been found guilty of this offence the punishment had been commuted; and this commutation of the punishment was calculated upon by the criminals as much as if there were no capital punishment for the offence.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, a one-sided view had been taken of this question, and cases had been alluded to where the of-fence was committed by one person under circumstances of sudden impulse of passion. But there were cases where the offence had been committed by several associated together on unprotected females, and to meet such atrocious cases as these he thought the capital punishment ought to be retained.Mr. C. Berkeley
745 contended, that the
745Mr. Langdale
 said, whatever unpopularity might attach to the opinion, he was decidedly of opinion that in certain cases the punishment of death did act as a preventive. He thought, that if the punishment of death were removed, this crime, instead of diminishing, would increase. It was better to retain the punishment, though it was rarely exercised, in order to meet extreme cases, than to abolish the punishment and lose this power.Mr. F. Maule
 said, the real strong objection against the punishment of death was its irrevocability. He thought there was no offence to which they should be more careful of attaching irrevocable punishment than this, because there was no offence in which it was so difficult to get at satisfactory evidence.Mr. C. Buller
 thought, that the chance of obtaining a conviction was a strong argument for an alteration of the law. There were cases in the annals of our criminal jurisprudence in which juries had over and over again refused to convict for this crime. The death of the offender was no reparation to the unfortunate person placed in the horrible situation of a female who was the object of the crime. If a man was maimed or mutilated, was not the consequence equally irreparable? The effect of capital punishment was to incite the offender to add murder to the crime, in order to prevent detection. On the whole, he thought an alteration of the law would not only prevent the commission of the crime, but lead to a certainty of punishment.Mr. Bernal
 was one of those who objected to capital punishments altogether, not from any sympathy with the criminals, but because of its inefficacy to prevent crime. It was his firm conviction that the time would come when the judges of the land would be advocates for the abolition of capital punishments.Mr. Ewart
 said, what the committee had to determine was, which was the greater evil, rape or murder. Capital punishment for the former would incite an individual to commit the latter.Mr. Muntz
747 said, as it would not be in his power to attend the future stages of the bill, he wished without bringing on a general discussion, to express his entire concurrence in the principle which the House had thus far sanctioned. At an early period of his life, and just as he entered on the profession in which he had now been engaged a great number of years, he had entertained, and he had not forgotten it, a strong feeling with respect to the infliction of the punishment of death, and he thought it right to say, that long experience as to the operation of the criminal law had strongly confirmed that impression. He felt astonished when he heard an hon. Member to-night state, that there were other punishments which he regarded
747Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
748 would suggest to the hon. and learned Gentleman the propriety of modifying some of the clauses, so as to be secure of carrying some part of his bill. He put it to him whether he thought he should be able to carry his bill in its present state? With regard to the subject of piracy, from which it was proposed to re-
748Sir C. Grey
 confessed that his objection to removing the punishment of death for attempts at murder had been completely removed by the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and he, therefore, should support that clause. He was happy to hear that the feeling out of doors was against the infliction of the punishment of death.Mr. Serjeant Jackson
749 entreated the hon. and learned Gentleman to consent to some of the modifications proposed by the Secretary of State. He believed it would be acknowledged by all acquainted with the other House of Parliament, than in its present state it would not pass that House. He himself thought that in aggravated cases of rape the existence of power to inflict the punishment of death ought to be retained. He thought the feelings of the House were taking a wrong direction on the subject. The learned Serjeant, in a very pretty and poetical speech, had expressed great sympathy for the murderer, but was none to be felt for the murdered? If the condition of the murderer, prepared as he was, was dreadful, what must be the case with the murdered, sent, as he was, into the presence of his Maker without one moment's preparation? He believed that there existed among juries an unconquerable aversion to convict in cases where capital punishments were inflicted. The editor of a morning paper had said he would not convict in a case of rape if capital punishment were to follow, that is to say, that he would commit perjury rather than convict. What were they to do with these sort of persons, as they might, and he believed some of them would, from a mawkish sentimentality, refuse to inflict any punishment? The hon. Gentleman then alluded to the case of Gould, who had been brought before him; there was no breach in the chain of evidence, and yet one of the jury at the inquest had said
749Mr. Wakley
 said, that it was his opinion that the punishment of death should be taken away in all cases except high treason and murder; and such being the case, he thought it his duty to submit his opinions to the committee and to the House, and he hoped the bill would pass in its present state. He should endeavour to advert to the argument of the hon. Gentleman on the receiving the report. He firmly believed that if the sanction of the House should be given to the bill, it would not meet with any serious opposition in the other House.Mr. F. Kelly
, in moving that the amendments be agreed to, said, that with regard to one of those amendments some misapprehension seemed to exist in some quarters. It seemed to be supposed that one of those amendments had the effect of postponing the operation of the bill for fifteen months. Now the effect of that amendment was, to give the Governor-general a power to postpone its commencement for that period if he pleased, instead of the more limited period of six months, within which time the bill, as it went up to the Lords, was directed to be brought into operation. The amendment, therefore, did not at all prevent the bill coming into operation within six months, or indeed as soon as the Government at home and the Governor-general might think proper.Lord John Russell
"Copy of any examinations, reports, or other papers received from any inspector of prisons or other person with regard to the treatment of Mr. Feargus O'Connor in York Castle; also, of any correspondence that has passed between Mr. Feargus O'Connor and any inspector of prisons, or any visiting justice, on the same subject; and also for any medical certificates, affidavits, or correspondence sent to the Home Office by Dr. Thompson, and by Messrs. Jago and Cooper, surgeons, with the dates thereof. rose to make the motion of which he had given notice relative to the treatment of Mr. Feargus O'Connor in York Castle. That treatment had been so atrocious that he would venture to say no Member of that House would stand up in defence of it if the truth was only known. Mr. O'Connor was a man who was undergoing a most severe sentence, and was entitled to have the truth sifted. He begged the House to remember that the visiting justices had not dared to deny the treatment which Mr. O'Connor said that he had endured. All that they said was, that he was not now subject to the same treatment. If it turned out to be true that Mr. O'Connor was subject to the most menial services, besides being treated as a common felon, he hoped that this would form some foundation for the House agreeing to an address to her Majesty for some remission of those sufferings which the law never before recognised. Mr. Crawford had been sent down to inquire into this subject in consequence of the motion which he (Mr. Aglionby) had formerly made, but why was that Gentleman's report not produced? The House ought to have the whole of the information which he had received. It was not to be tolerated, that a gentleman moving in, Mr. O'Connor's sphere in life should be treated as a common felon, and his petition withheld from that House; it was not to be tolerated that he should continue branded, on the authority of an inspector, as a person of no credibility when the documents which would prove his credibility were in the Home Office. The hon. Member concluded by moving for a
"Copy of any examinations, reports, or other papers received from any inspector of prisons or other person with regard to the treatment of Mr. Feargus O'Connor in York Castle; also, of any correspondence that has passed between Mr. Feargus O'Connor and any inspector of prisons, or any visiting justice, on the same subject; and also for any medical certificates, affidavits, or correspondence sent to the Home Office by Dr. Thompson, and by Messrs. Jago and Cooper, surgeons, with the dates thereof.Mr. Aglionby
 replied, and the House divided:—Ayes 12; Noes 19: Majority 7; but there not being a sufficient number of Members present to constitute a House, the Speaker left the Chair, and the division went for nothing.Mr. Aglionby
 objected to the third reading of the bill on several grounds. He had resisted the measure in every stage last Session, but he had been foiled in his endeavour to exempt the towns that had a police force, and the present bill remained in its original objectionable form. The bill gave unqualified dissatisfaction to men of all parties in the towns, Tories, Whigs, and Radicals. If, however, this bill were rejected, the Act of last Session, which was not liked, would still remain. He hardly knew whether he ought to divide against the third reading; he felt inclined to give the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Fox Maule) a chance of re-considering his opinion, and to agree now to a clause exempting the large towns.Captain Pechell
 said, that although the Act of last year might be required in some counties, yet the desperate remedy proposed was not wanted in several; and, therefore, it was that he had introduced his own bill. As a remedy for the defects of the existing Act he did not object to the present bill.Mr. Law Hodges
 said, there were many magistrates in Hertfordshire who had acted with great credit, who would consider this clause a great stigma cast upon them; and as he thought no such implied censure ought to be passed by the House, he would oppose the clause.Mr. Rowland Alston
 having withdrawn the clause in obedience to what he deemed the general feeling of the House, although he retained his former opinion of its utility, could not now consent to its re-introduction.Mr. Fox Maule
763 said, that if this clause were inserted, they would lose in Kent the valuable services of the chairman
763Sir Edward Knatchbull
 assured the hon. Baronet that the town which he represented would be very glad if his amendment were rejected. If the hon. Baronet would move to exempt Brighton alone he would vote with him, but he could not agree to a general clause, which would exempt all large towns.Mr. Craven Berkeley
 thought it unadvisable to adopt this clause, because it was not desirable that a town situated in the centre of a county should have a police differently governed from that by which the county was watched. There was a broad distinction upon the case of an incorporated town, because in that case the officers by whom the police was governed were selected by the inhabitants.Mr. Fox Maule
 thought that large towns, being without corporations, had a right to be placed upon the same footing as incorporated cities.Mr. Darby
 submitted that the House had already expressed an opinion upon a clause exactly similar in its provisions, and that it was out of order to discuss and decide upon two clauses of the same description.Mr. F. Maule
 was of opinion that there was a sufficient difference between the two clauses to render it competent to the hon. Member for Brighton to persist in the present motion.The Speaker
 objected to the course which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to take. He thought the right hon. Gentleman ought to state at once what modifications he proposed to make in the customs duties. It was most desirable that the country should be made acquainted with them. The more regular course would be for the right hon. Gentleman to move the schedule of duties in committee.Mr. Goulburn
 said, that was undoubtedly the proper course when it was proposed to increase any duties. But in the present case they did not propose to increase a single duty, only to reduce some duties.Mr. Labouchere
 objected to the introduction of so important a measure so late in the Session as the 16th of July. Serious injury might be sustained by the various interests in the country by the delay. In his own part of the country parties were suffering very severely from the uncertainty which existed with regard to the intentions of Government.Sir E. Knatchbull
 would at once state, that the only alteration in the existing duties that could at all affect the agricultural interest, was one on the duty on mustard seed and mustard flour.Mr. Labouchere
 could not consent to omit any part of the clause.Mr. F. Maule
 said, some provision of the sort was necessary, unless measures were taken for carrying the Police Act thoroughly into effect.Mr. Hawes
 opposed the motion, and said he should divide the House against a measure which proposed to do away with trial by jury in cases of offenders under fourteen years of age.General Johnson
774773 could not assent to the motion. Mr. O'Connor had been condemned for the publication of a political libel, not of a common description, but one of such a nature that the Attorney, general had told the jury—a fair and impartial jury of Englishmen—that if they did not consider it was calculated to stir up and inflame the minds of the people, they were bound to acquit the prisoner of the charge. The jury found Mr. O'Connor guilty of publishing an inflammatory libel, and for that offence he was brought before the Court of Queen's Bench to receive judgment. During the interval he was confined in the Queen's Bench Prison. The sentence was, that he was to be confined in York Castle. However, upon receiving accounts that the removal would be injurious to the health of Mr. O'Connor, the Secretary of State did not insist upon his removal on the Saturday morning, but deferred it until the Monday. During that time other applications were made, but not of a nature to induce the Secretary of State to interfere. Had Mr. O'Connor not been in a fitting state for removal on Monday morning, the Marshal of the Queen's Bench would have
774773Mr. F. Maule
761"Early in the present Session a petition was presented to Parliament, entitled The Petition of the undersigned landowners, and others, of the county of Carnarvon,' which bore the signatures of John Williams, high sheriff, the Lord Newborough, the Members for the county and borough, twelve justices of the peace, the mayor, and various other residents at Carnarvon, and which contained the following passages:—' That the interests of various landowners along the existing mail coach line through North Wales are deeply affected by the projects at issue; and that persons enjoying property at Holyhead, and in the island of Anglesea, have the deepest stake in the inquiry. That, under these circumstances, the strictest impartiality was called for, both as to the persons to be selected and the proceedings to be adopted in carrying the Address of the House of Commons into execution. That such impartiality in the choice of persons appears to your petitioners not to have been exercised, and that, under all the circumstances of the case, there is every reason to believe, that any report these persons may make in favour of a particular harbour and line of railway will be deemed by the public prejudiced and unsatisfactory. That the grounds upon which your petitioners have been induced to form the belief stated are as follow. That various public meetings and other proceedings took place before the address already cited was moved, at which the relative merits of Holyhead Harbour and the Harbour of Port Dynllaen, for the purposes intended, were canvassed and discussed. That at sundry meetings of this kind great pains were taken on the part of Lord Stanley, of Alderley, who is reputed to possess considerable property in the town of Holyhead and the island of Anglesea, and whose son, the hon. William Owen Stanley, represents the county in Parliament, to show that Holyhead was the fittest harbour for communicating with Ireland, and that a line of railway from Holy-
761 rose to call the attention of the House to what he considered to be a breach of privilege. It consisted of the following extract from a petition which had been presented to that House, and which had been signed by the hon. Member for Shropshire (Mr. O. Gore), for Carnarvonshire (Mr. J. R. O. Gore), and for the borough of Carnarvon (Mr. W. B. Hughes).
761"Early in the present Session a petition was presented to Parliament, entitled The Petition of the undersigned landowners, and others, of the county of Carnarvon,' which bore the signatures of John Williams, high sheriff, the Lord Newborough, the Members for the county and borough, twelve justices of the peace, the mayor, and various other residents at Carnarvon, and which contained the following passages:—' That the interests of various landowners along the existing mail coach line through North Wales are deeply affected by the projects at issue; and that persons enjoying property at Holyhead, and in the island of Anglesea, have the deepest stake in the inquiry. That, under these circumstances, the strictest impartiality was called for, both as to the persons to be selected and the proceedings to be adopted in carrying the Address of the House of Commons into execution. That such impartiality in the choice of persons appears to your petitioners not to have been exercised, and that, under all the circumstances of the case, there is every reason to believe, that any report these persons may make in favour of a particular harbour and line of railway will be deemed by the public prejudiced and unsatisfactory. That the grounds upon which your petitioners have been induced to form the belief stated are as follow. That various public meetings and other proceedings took place before the address already cited was moved, at which the relative merits of Holyhead Harbour and the Harbour of Port Dynllaen, for the purposes intended, were canvassed and discussed. That at sundry meetings of this kind great pains were taken on the part of Lord Stanley, of Alderley, who is reputed to possess considerable property in the town of Holyhead and the island of Anglesea, and whose son, the hon. William Owen Stanley, represents the county in Parliament, to show that Holyhead was the fittest harbour for communicating with Ireland, and that a line of railway from Holy-
761Mr. W. O. Stanley
 said, that admitting all that had been said by the hon. Gentleman, he did not see in what way a breach of privilege had been committed. He wished the right hon. Gentleman, the Speaker, would give his opinion upon the point.Lord J. Russell
 said, he had no hesitation in stating that he did not understand the petition in any way to involve a breach of privilege. The words referred to by the hon. Gentleman could only be taken as part of a petition that had been presented to that House. The petition certainly reflected upon the conduct of persons employed by the Government, and of Members of that House; but it referred to them in their private capacity, and not to their conduct as Members of that House. If any breach of privilege had been committed, it had been a breach of the privileges of the House of Lords.The Speaker
 said, this was the first time that any public officer who had been sent by the Government to institute an inquiry into a case of a public nature, had made merely a verbal answer; but as that was the case, of course the House could not obtain any return.Mr. Hume
 seconded the motion. He could not conceive upon what principle it could be opposed. Conciliatory attempts to settle the question had been made, and he was sorry to say had failed. The House had resolved not by any act of its own to interfere. If the hon. Under Secretary refused to allow Mr. Crawford's report to be produced he must bear the odium. Nearly three hundred persons were now confined in prison for political offences—that was for merely expressing their feelings in strong language. He had received a letter from Mr. O'Connor, describing his treatment, which, with the permission of the House, he would read. [The hon. Member read the letter.] He had not read this letter on a former occasion, because he had hoped that the Government would relent, and see the propriety of altering the treatment to which Mr. O'Connor had been subjected. He had hoped that the Government would have reprobated such conduct, and that they would have laid before the House every document that could have thrown any light upon the subject, that hon. Members might form a fair judgment as to who was to blame. He cordially seconded the motion.Mr. Wakley
771770769ll, in stating his intentions with respect to the Bank of Ireland, felt that it was necessary to explain the object of the bill which he proposed to ask for leave to introduce. The charter of the Bank of Ireland was granted for a certain time, which terminated in 1837. After that period the condition was, that it should continue, but be terminable at a year's notice. At the present moment, the charter would cease at the end of twelve months, after notice duly given by the Government. There were two sums of money lent under different conditions by the Bank of Ireland to the Government. One of those sums amounted to about 1,000,000771770769llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 brought up the report on the Farnham Rectory Chapels Bill, and moved certain amendments which were read a first time.Mr. Darby
l.781 said, that as they were altering the standing orders relating to pri-
l.781Mr. Hume
 said, that in ordinary cases it was not necessary that evidence relating to private bills should be printed. The case, however, was then different. He would therefore move, that the evidence taken before the committee should be printed, and that in the meantime the further consideration of the question should be postponed.Mr. Aglionby
l. said, that as it would be for the convenience of the House, that there should be but one discussion, he should take it now, although it was not the most regular course. This was a private bill, and the only persons who were at all interested were consenting parties to it. The Archdeacon of Surrey would be by it prohibited from renewing certain leases, and he consented, with the concurrence of the Bishop of Winchester, who was interested as the patron, to apply the fines, to which he would otherwise have been entitled on renewal, to the endowment of certain incumbencies, and the erection of certain churches. These sums amounted to 11,200l.Sir R. Inglis
 thought that the hon. Baronet opposite had taken the House by surprise by the course he had adopted. The principle proposed to be introduced into the bill, was in direct opposition to that which had been already adopted in the case of the Irish Church, and it certainly was not fair that it should be adopted without a full discussion. He would move that the debate be adjourned.Mr. Hume
 said, that the sense of the House had already been taken in four divisions. His proposal now would be the adoption of the amendments, pro forma, with an understanding that the sense of the House should be taken on them on the third reading.Sir R. Inglis
 said, this was a public bill, and of great importance; and he thought it was incumbent on the Government to be present at the discussion, and to give their opinion on the principle of the bill. The bill was, in fact, one that involved the rights of all the Church lessees in the kingdom. For this reason he should vote for the postponement of the discussion.Mr. Aglionby
 had always been friendly to the principle of the bill, as he considered it a great improvement on the system of ecclesiastical jurisdiction and instruction, at present practised on the Farnham rectories. However, he saw no reason why the debate should not be adjourned until Monday.Mr. Baines
783: With regard to this particular question, I really must say that I do not think the proposal of an adjournment until Monday at all an unrea-
783Lord J. Russell
 said, that the present question was not a new one, and he was of opinion, that it should be finally disposed of on that evening. The noble Lord opposite, had been pleased to refer to an opinion delivered by him (Sir J. Graham) in the course of last Session. He had then contended, that although church leases had no legal right of renewal, they had an equitable right founded on long usage. But that right was altered when the rights of lessors, having short and terminable interests, were transferred to bodies having permanent interests. He felt the difficulty of the question to the full extent stated by the noble Lord, but he thought the House was as competent to decide it on a Friday as on a Monday. He felt that it was a balanced claim, and, therefore, taking the whole merits into consideration, he had determined on voting against compensation.Sir J. Graham
 said, that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down formed, in his mind, the strongest reason for the postponement of the debate. The right hon. Gentleman had admitted that the bill involved a great and important principle, in which it was even contended that, contrary to established practice, the Ministers of the Crown should give an opinion. He would ask, was it fair to decide on such a bill without the slightest notice given? All that was asked was a postponement until Monday, that a full opportunity might be given for the discussion of a bill which, although nominally private, was confessedly of great public importance.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
796Maule:795quasi794"I have to acquaint you, for your own information alone, that I am especially instructed to watch and take measures for obtaining information (not as to the harvest, but) as to any proceedings in any district relative to assemblages of work-people, or Chartists, or circumstances calculated to disturb the public peace, &c. said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, in speaking of confidential communications, had confessed that those gentlemen were not merely missionaries of humanity; that they had some duties to perform which were not known to the House of Commons, and for which they were not paid by the public votes of a popular assembly; that they had to make reports to a minister, and that they had to communicate with Downing-street. The hon. Gentleman had also accurately defined for them the nature of such communications. Those gentlemen, he said, had to report as to the state of the working classes in their prosperity, and even in their adversity. They had also to report as to the state of the harvest; and it appeared that one of those confidential circulars, anticipating, perhaps, the doubtful issue of the harvest, which was interesting to all, had, by means the most mysterious, and in a manner which had provoked the indignation of the hon. Under Secretary of State, fallen into the hands of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Oldham. It would, therefore, be curious to remark the manner in which these communications were made to the Government, especially when the state of the harvest was doubtful, and its results problematical. Observe:—
796Maule:795quasi794"I have to acquaint you, for your own information alone, that I am especially instructed to watch and take measures for obtaining information (not as to the harvest, but) as to any proceedings in any district relative to assemblages of work-people, or Chartists, or circumstances calculated to disturb the public peace, &c.Mr. D'Israeli
 objected to proceeding with it at that late hour of the night.Mr. W. Attwood
 thought that the House was generally of opinion that the bill ought to pass, and he knew no reason why they should refuse to proceed with it.Lord John Russell
 said, that in a former discussion on this bill, he had objected to the number of the poor-law assistant commissioners; and as the noble Lord had assured him that they would be dispensed with, he was inclined to go on with the bill.Mr. Hume
 moved that the House do now adjourn.Mr. W. Attwood
 said, that he felt a strong objection to the commission being continued, and there was a vast number of his constituents who disliked the laws which emanated, not from the House of Commons, but from the Poor-law Commissioners at Somerset-House. As the noble Lord had abandoned his bill for the amendment of the Poor-law Act, he hoped he would consent to fix the third reading of the present bill for some early day next week.Mr. Grimsditch
 said, that the hon. Gentleman had raised an objection against proceeding with the present measure, because Government had not gone on with the Poor-law Amendment Act; but the hon. Member would surely admit, when he considered the business which had hitherto occupied the House, that it would be impossible to carry such a measure through Parliament this Session. It being acknowledged, then, that it was necessary to continue the powers at present entrusted to the Poor-law Commissioners, he hoped there would be no further objection made to proceeding with the bill.Viscount Morpeth
 thought it was time that business should make some progress in that House, and though he had no doubt of the sincerity of hon. Gentlemen in their opposition to this bill, he would yet like to know what they would gain by a delay of two or three weeks. He hoped hon. Gentlemen would withdraw their opposition to the present measure.Mr. Wakley
 would persist in his amendment, as the bill had not been brought on at a time of the evening when the House could properly discuss it.Mr. W. Attwood
 said, that great inconvenience had arisen from the form in which the bill for England had been drawn. The amendments could not be discussed on the enacting clauses, but had to be taken on the preamble. Unless the hon. and learned Gentleman could assure him that no such inconvenience would arise in the form of the present bill, he should be disposed to withhold his assent from it.Mr. Fox Maule
 could not give the hon. Gentleman the assurance he desired.Mr. Kelly
 said, he was not aware whether his hon. and learned Friend had shown the bill to the Solicitor-general for Ireland, or the bill that was in preparation for Scotland to the Lord Advocate. He did not see there was the remotest chance of these bills becoming law during the present Session, and unless the principle could be carried into effect in all parts of the United Kingdom it would be objectionable to press it at present. He would add, that the form in which the English bill was drawn had been found extremely inconvenient. He would advise his hon. and learned Friend not to persist in his bill.The Attorney-General
 supported the motion, and adverted to the cases of measures brought in by Sir Samuel Romilly and Sir Robert Peel that were made to apply to Ireland, although it was desirable that similar laws should have been introduced for that country. It was, therefore, in his opinion, the duty of the House to make a contemporaneous change in the law with regard to that country in the present instance.Mr. Ewart
 said, that he should always look at any suggestion from the Members of Government with distrust after this; for he had been asked by her Majesty's Attorney-general to prepare a bill for Ireland, and now that he had done so the Government opposed it.Mr. Kelly
 hoped that the bill which the hon. and learned Gentleman wished to introduce was not exactly in the same form with that which he had introduced for England. If it were, it would be almost impossible to discuss it, there being so many crimes punishable with death in Ireland that were not even contemplated by the laws of this country.Mr. Pigot
 said, that the bill certainly resembled the English bill. It abolished death in all cases except treason and murder.Mr. Kelly
793792791 would admit the charge was one of a very grave nature, if such proof had been adduced in support of it as would warrant the House in entertaining it. But, on the showing of the hon. Member himself, all the proof which he had consisted in whispered rumours in the House of Commons, and in a letter which the hon. Gentleman had admitted was private and confidential, and intended only to meet the eye of the factory inspector. How that letter came into the hand of the hon. Gentleman he did not know. It was obtained either from the person to whom it was addressed—a breach of confidence which he was satisfied the House would not countenance—or it was acquired in some other way; and if so, he would much rather that the hon. Gentleman should use it on this occasion than that he should. He would, however, explain the facts with respect to it. The House was aware of the duties of factory inspectors, and would see that it was their charge to acquire information with respect to the condition and the habits of the working classes, not for the purpose imputed by the hon. Gentleman, but for the purpose of informing the Government
793792791Mr. F Maule
797 said, that during the many years he had acted upon this question with the hon. Member for Oldham, he had never had occasion to differ from him until the present moment, when he did so with regret. He thought that the hon. Member had not taken that course which was best calculated to carry out the object he had in view, namely, the efficient operation of the Factory Act. He had seen nothing in the committee which had sat upon this subject to excite suspicion that there was any thing wrong in the conduct of the inspectors, or of the Government who had given the instructions. Entertaining the opinion that the examination of the inspectors before the committee ought not to be proceeded with—that the confidential servants of the Crown should not be brought before a committee of inquiry, for the purpose of getting them to state on cross-examination that which had been confided to them by their employers, he suggested that the room should be cleared for deliberation. It was, however, determined that the examination should be continued, the result of which was before them. He could not but regret that the hon. Member for Oldham had made use of such harsh language towards those Gentlemen. The hon. Member, no doubt, felt strongly upon the subject, and on that ground allowance ought, perhaps, to be made; but when he made use of the words "political spies," he was prejudging the whole question. There was nothing in evidence to show that those officers had acted as spies. They had assumed no disguise. They had not got into the confidence of those who were to address the meetings which they were directed to notice. Nothing of that kind had been done, and he was therefore most anxious that the country should believe so, because otherwise the operation of this act which he had at heart, and to which he had devoted so many years of his life, would become null and
797Lord Ashley
805804803802 had not intended to take part in this debate, but that he found the right hon. Gentleman confounded two things that were essentially different; and he himself must say, he had always endeavoured to make a distinction between them. The hon. Gentleman, the Member for Manchester, had, he believed, hardly expressed his meaning correctly, when he said he was sure that this Government would not endeavour to goad the people, or to excite them to insurrection. He believed that no Government would make such an attempt. But then, with regard to the prudence to be exercised as to the means to obtain information, he thought a very different course had been pursued.
805804803802Lord John Russell
798quid pro quo, agreed with the hon. Member for Oldham in many of his opinions respecting the Factory Bill and central organization; but, at the same time, he must say, he thought the hon. Member had not acted judiciously in bringing the question before the House. He would ask the hon. Member whether the Government should not obtain information either with respect to the harvest, or the state of the working classes, their prejudices, feelings, and general condition? It could not be denied that it was their duty. When the hon. Member sat on the Poor-law Committee, he felt it his duty to send persons to investigate the condition of the poor in Bedfordshire. These might be called Poor-law spies. Now, he would ask, did the Government send persons on purpose to all the northern districts to attend public meetings, and report their opinions? What would be the effect? Why, those people, being paid servants, would feel themselves bound to give their employers a 798quid pro quo,Mr. Hindley
 wished to know whether, in case a manufacturer lived in his manufactory, he would be charged with the tax as for a dwelling-house? At present, manufactories were in part exempt, and he thought it would be a very hard case to charge a man who might, for economy's sake, live on his working premises.Mr. Hindley
 wished to know of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether in the new survey on account of the window-tax those windows of coachmakers, and other trades requiring a large quantity of light, and having, consequently, the greater portion of their workshops made of glass, were to be rated in the same manner as they had been hitherto? He felt bound to apologise to the hon. Gentleman for asking this question without due notice, but he hoped that it would not prevent an answer.Mr. Maclean
808 did not rise to take part in this debate because he was the representative of one of those large constituencies to which the hon. Member for Maid-stone had referred, but to request his hon. Friend the Member for Oldham to withdraw his motion. He agreed with the hon. Member for Salford in thinking that no grounds had been laid for it. Every
808Mr. Muntz
790"That it is the opinion of this committee that the employment of the inspectors and superintendents of mills and factories in the discharge of duties under confidential instructions, such as those stated in the latter part of the examination of Mr. Stuart and Mr. Beal, ought to be brought before the House of Commons as a distinct question, and, therefore, that, it is not expedient that the committee should now make further inquiry upon that subject.""Were those communications of a public or a private character?—Private, confidential. The first letter was marked 'Confidential.' "789"How many such communications did you receive?—I received the first quite unconnected with any other subject; but there were observations relative to the same matter in future letters connected with the Factory Act. I do not know how many; I cannot say the number.""Mr. Stuart has stated that he gave his superintendent instructions to make reports to him on other matter than the inspection of factories; did you receive communications from him to such an effect?—Yes."Dear Sir,—I have to acquaint you, for your own information alone, that I am especially instructed to watch and take measures for obtaining information as to any proceedings in any district relative to assemblages of workpeople, or Chartists, or circumstances calculated to disturb the public peace. You will, therefore, be so good as to make me weekly a confidential report on this subject. The newspapers from different parts of your district will generally point out to you any places requiring particularly to be noticed, but take care at Dundee and elsewhere to act with secresy and prudence, so that you may escape observation, and not be suspected of giving information. I am, dear Sir, yours truly, James Stuart."788"Were you ever told or instructed by the Government to desire your superintendents to attend at public meetings, and to give your report of the public speeches, or watch the conduct of private individuals?—No, I do not think that we have a communication of that sort; it is possible I may have said, when Feargus O'Connor was once at Dundee: it is possible I might say,' Let me know what he says,' but I do not recollect having done so; yet in letters written in that way, it is quite a possible case, though I cannot speak positively.""Did you ask them to mix themselves up with public meetings?—No, certainly not; I gave no particular instructions, so far as I remember; I think so.""What sort of information?—Respecting the state of political feeling, and respecting the manufacturing districts as to trade."What was the nature of the instructions you gave to your superintendents?—To obtain information respecting certain places which I pointed out.""My impression is, they are not in existence. The instructions I got from Government, I am quite sure I have not. My recollection is, that they were entirely verbal, or if they were given to the inspectors, they were given to all the inspectors at once, and, therefore, could not be with me.""Can you furnish the instructions which you received from Government by to-morrow?""I have never asked for information from the superintendents, except by direction from the Secretary of State. I have never done it on my own account."787"He had required his superintendents to give him information, in respect to both the
787"I object to that question. This inquiry is limited to the operation of the Factory Act.""Have you employed Mr. Beal (one of his superintendents) in any other capacity than as a superintendent of factories?"786 rose to move, pursuant to his notice, that a select committee be appointed to inquire further into the disclosures made to the committee on mills and factories by Mr. Stuart, inspector of factories, on the 23rd day of June instant,
790"That it is the opinion of this committee that the employment of the inspectors and superintendents of mills and factories in the discharge of duties under confidential instructions, such as those stated in the latter part of the examination of Mr. Stuart and Mr. Beal, ought to be brought before the House of Commons as a distinct question, and, therefore, that, it is not expedient that the committee should now make further inquiry upon that subject.""Were those communications of a public or a private character?—Private, confidential. The first letter was marked 'Confidential.' "789"How many such communications did you receive?—I received the first quite unconnected with any other subject; but there were observations relative to the same matter in future letters connected with the Factory Act. I do not know how many; I cannot say the number.""Mr. Stuart has stated that he gave his superintendent instructions to make reports to him on other matter than the inspection of factories; did you receive communications from him to such an effect?—Yes."Dear Sir,—I have to acquaint you, for your own information alone, that I am especially instructed to watch and take measures for obtaining information as to any proceedings in any district relative to assemblages of workpeople, or Chartists, or circumstances calculated to disturb the public peace. You will, therefore, be so good as to make me weekly a confidential report on this subject. The newspapers from different parts of your district will generally point out to you any places requiring particularly to be noticed, but take care at Dundee and elsewhere to act with secresy and prudence, so that you may escape observation, and not be suspected of giving information. I am, dear Sir, yours truly, James Stuart."788"Were you ever told or instructed by the Government to desire your superintendents to attend at public meetings, and to give your report of the public speeches, or watch the conduct of private individuals?—No, I do not think that we have a communication of that sort; it is possible I may have said, when Feargus O'Connor was once at Dundee: it is possible I might say,' Let me know what he says,' but I do not recollect having done so; yet in letters written in that way, it is quite a possible case, though I cannot speak positively.""Did you ask them to mix themselves up with public meetings?—No, certainly not; I gave no particular instructions, so far as I remember; I think so.""What sort of information?—Respecting the state of political feeling, and respecting the manufacturing districts as to trade."What was the nature of the instructions you gave to your superintendents?—To obtain information respecting certain places which I pointed out.""My impression is, they are not in existence. The instructions I got from Government, I am quite sure I have not. My recollection is, that they were entirely verbal, or if they were given to the inspectors, they were given to all the inspectors at once, and, therefore, could not be with me.""Can you furnish the instructions which you received from Government by to-morrow?""I have never asked for information from the superintendents, except by direction from the Secretary of State. I have never done it on my own account."787"He had required his superintendents to give him information, in respect to both the
787"I object to that question. This inquiry is limited to the operation of the Factory Act.""Have you employed Mr. Beal (one of his superintendents) in any other capacity than as a superintendent of factories?"786Mr. J. Fielden
 agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury, that no character could be more odious than that of a political spy, but he thought that no grounds had been laid for applying that name to the inspectors of factories for the manner in which they had acted under the instructions given to them by the Government. Therefore, if the hon. Member for Old-ham pressed his motion to a division, he should certainly vote against him.Mr. Brotherton
hon. Member:799 thought that the bringing forward this question was likely to injure the operation of the Factory Act, but as the question had been brought forward something more must be afforded in the way of explanation. If there was anything likely to do mischief to the factory inspectors it was the leaving them exposed to suspicion. They had been appointed to superintend the operation of the Factory Act, and so cautious had been the Legislature on this subject, that the instructions to the factory commissioners were the only instructions to any commissioners which had been directed to be laid before Parliament. He wished his hon. Friend had been able to deny that the letter which had been read was a genuine letter; but here was a letter from a factory officer
hon. Member:799Mr. Hume
 said, the Government ought to obtain information as to the state of the working classes. That could not be denied. Well then, to whom were they to apply? The hon. Gentleman would not be satisfied if they sought it from the local magistracy or from the clergy. The object was to obtain a knowledge of the distress which was alleged to prevail amongst the working classes, and he thought the best agents that could be obtained at present had been employed, although perhaps a better channel through which to get information might have been provided. He recommended the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his amendment.Mr. Slaney
807 was glad to hear so, because it showed that he and his friends had no bad intention. He believed that the character of a spy was just as odious in this country at the present day as it ever was. He did not believe that in society there could exist a more worthless, odious ruffian, than that man who went into the society of his fellow men, and whilst he assumed one character acted under another; and he trusted in a country like this, it was a character the odium of which would never be lessened by any sophistry which might be employed in its defence. In this case the Government had employed means of obtaining information, and the question to be determined was, whether those means were justifiable or not? Me had yet to learn that when a person was employed by the Government with the public money in his pocket, avowedly to perform certain functions, that at the same time, under the disguise of that character, he was to perform functions of a totally different nature. He did not believe that the noble Lord, in giving the instructions to the inspectors of factories, was actuated by any improper motive, his whole conduct showed the contrary. But was it discreet to employ those persons. The noble Lord and the right hon. Baronet had given them an outline of the manner in which spies exercised their functions. And how was it done? By worming themselves into the confidence of men whom it was their object first to excite and afterwards to betray. The noble Lord first gave his instructions to the inspector, saying—"Strange things are passing in the country. You have an opportunity of observing those things, and you are to give
807Mr. Wakley
806 said, the safety of society required that means should be taken to collect information, but then it should not
806Mr. Wakley
 thought it most unfortunate that the inspectors and superintendents of factories should have been employed upon a service which was calculated to make them odious in the estimation of the people, and thereby greatly to impair the efficacy of their services in the employment which legitimately belonged to them.Mr. Ewart
 said, that it was not quite fair to him to put questions involving nice points of law without due notice. He was aware of the fact alluded to by the hon. Gentleman, and it was impossible to remedy it at present.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it was certainly a very difficult thing to answer questions without due notice. But what he had stated on a former occasion, he could not hesitate to repeat then, which was, that the new survey was not for the purpose of unduly increasing the window tax, but for the purpose of bringing into payment those windows which came within the existing law on the subject, but which, from the laxity of the practice, had not recently paid any tax at all. Under these circumstances, he could not undertake to pledge himself that the new survey should be conducted in the same manner as the old survey; nor that windows which paid no tax at present should be in the future also exempt. This, however, he would say, that there should be no vexatious interference with the public in regard to this tax.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he should be very glad to give the return if he knew what was really wanted; but he had heard so many suppositions that he did not think any return could satisfy everybody.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had also received communications on the subject, in consequence of which he had made some inquiries, the result of which was, that though a few instances might have occurred, this complaint was rather suppositious than real. He would have no objection to give the return if the right hon. Baronet would take the trouble to move for it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 hoped his hon. Friend would withdraw his motion. If he thought that the Government had descended to such meanness as to send political spies among the people for the purpose of goading them into a violation of the law, he should not support them. He was confident the Government would not attempt to obtain information in an improper way; he entirely acquitted them of any intention of employing any parties as spies. He was surprised at the course pursued by the hon. Member for Maid-stone; only a few evenings since, in the debate on Dr. Bowring's reports, that hon. Member had stated, that it was the duty of the Government to obtain all such information as that obtained by Dr. Bowring from the Consuls, and now he blamed them for obtaining information from the factory inspectors, instead of sending persons specially for the purpose of obtaining it. He agreed with the noble Lord opposite, that if they wished to injure the operation of the Factory Act he knew no more effectual mode of doing it than by throwing out imputations of that kind on those who were appointed to carry that Act into effect. He wished to see that Act carried out fully and fairly, and not got rid of by a side wind; but, if these imputations were to be cast upon the inspectors, he agreed with the noble Lord, that it would be better to abrogate the law at once.Mr. M. Phillips
 said, that what he had stated was, that obtaining information as to the intentions of disaffected men was not now so unpopular with the hon. Gentleman's Friends as it formerly was.Sir R. Peel
801800 said, that any one who had ever been under the responsibility of maintaining the public peace—any one who had ever held an office the duties of which were in any manner connected with the preservation of the public tranquillity, would readily make great allowances for those exertions which her Majesty's Government might feel called upon to take for the purpose of preventing the grievous calamities which must arise if there were a total absence of information as to the designs of the disaffected or the feelings generally of the great bulk of the people. Both in this country and in Ireland he had been for a considerable time responsible for the state of the public peace, and he had found it absolutely necessary to use those which he trusted were legitimate means for obtaining the information which was necessary to an efficient and satisfactory discharge of the duties which he had undertaken to perform. In times of great excitement and of great distress, when agitation and poverty stimulated men to the commission of acts which their calmer reason must disapprove, it became a matter of expediency that the Government should resort to means of obtaining information, without which the public service could not be carried on. Recently,
801800Sir R. Peel
 said, the case which he had particularly in his mind was one to which the noble Lord had not referred. This was the way in which the case was generally found—One of the parties belonging to the confederacy gave notice to the Government that he was aware of what was passing. Let him take the case of Thistle-wood. In that case the information was conveyed to the Government by a party to the conspiracy. What course was the Government to take in such a case? Were they to say to the party "Break off your connexion with that conspiracy?" or, were they to say, "or remain a party to the confederacy—don't excite them, but give us notice of the day on which the intended transaction is to take place." He knew that that led to the risk of the party taking a course which they did not mean he should take, of holding language to incite his confederates, and he admitted that the greatest precaution was necessary; but cases would occur in which the Government could not well refuse to receive information from persons who were connected with a conspiracy.Sir R. Peel
: If the impression be erroneous even, it is of importance to satisfy the public that it is so. I think I shall do better by leaving it in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman to draw the distinction.Sir R. Peel
: It is quite clear that the right hon. Gentleman has heard a great deal more about it than 1 have, and therefore will be better able to frame a satisfactory return. I have heard but one complaint, that when a newspaper may have changed its title, size, or type, that the stamps on hand have been exchanged for others, and both taken credit for in the statement of circulation.Sir R. Peel
: I wish to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question as to newspaper stamps. We know that the quantities of stamps taken out by each newspaper are published periodically, and a very proper regulation it is. We know also, that on this return appeals are made by some newspapers to the public, inviting advertisements in consequence of the amount of their circulation. It is therefore very desirable, that the real circulation of newspapers should be correctly stated in this official return. I believe some newspapers are in the habit of changing stamps with the Stamp Office, and the return ought to show the instances in which these stamps have been changed, as otherwise it is a fallacious return, and it has been complained that some papers have taken credit for the stamps exchanged as well as those received in return. I have had two or three complaints from newspapers of the kind, and I wish to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would find any difficulty in stating these exchanges in the returns?Sir R. Peel
Member, in a Committee of the whole House, moved a resolution, that the excise duty now payable on sugar made from beet-root be charged on sugar manufactured from any materials whatever. The reason why this measure was proposed at so late a period of the Session was, that until very recently he had no idea that such a one would be required. The House had placed a duty on beet-root sugar, but the moment that was taxed the ingenuity of parties set them to work to get it from potatoes and other substances. The present bill would meet every possible case, for it included sugar extracted from any material whatever. [An hon. MemberThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was happy to be able to give his right hon. Friend an answer which he hoped would be considered satisfactory; but let him first remark, that the tone of the right hon. Baronet in his remarks was as if he considered that the bill had been smuggled through the House. Nothing of the kind, however, was intended, and as to the proviso which the right hon. Baronet had intended to move, he would find on looking at the bill that he had been spared the trouble, for a clause precisely to the same effect had been introduced into the bill. [Sir J. Graham: When?] In the Committee. So that the control of Parliament over the expenditure, which the right hon. Baronet was anxious to secure, had been already provided for.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
815, in moving for leave to bring in a bill to regulate the postage duties, said the House would recollect, that last year, when the new system of penny postage received the sanction of
815The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had wished that the bill should be postponed for the purpose of moving the amendment he had named. He was not aware of the introduction of the proviso, and was glad to find that it had been added.Sir J. Graham
814 said, he would take that opportunity of making a few remarks on the subject of a bill which he found had been read a third time and passed since the sitting of the House that day—he alluded to the Caledonian Canal. It would be in the recollection of hon. Members opposite, that when the Order of the Day for the third reading of that bill was called on on a former evening, he and his right hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) objected, on account of the lateness of the hour, and at the same time he intimated his intention of objecting to parts of the bill, and of moving an amendment. It was therefore postponed to this day; but he was not a little surprised, on coming down to the House at half-past twelve o'clock, to find that the bill had been already read a third time and passed. It was well known that the Caledonian Canal had already cost the country a very large outlay, and certainly far beyond the benefit which the country derived from it, and it still required a considerable outlay and great care and attention to prevent it from overflowing or breaking down some of the embankments, by which parts of the adjoining country would be flooded and very serious damage
814Sir J. Graham
819, as a member of the Committee to which this bill was referred, would state shortly the reasons that induced himself and the Committee to come to the conclusion that compensation ought to be given to the lessees of the property affected by this bill. The hon. and learned Member for Exeter, and the hon. and learned Member for Ripon, both on the occasion of the great question of church-rates which was debated in 1837, gave a decided and distinct opinion that the right which the petitioner claimed, and which was claimed before the Committee, was a good and valid right—a right which had been recognised for 300 years, and which could not be set aside in the very summary manner in which the hon. Baronet seemed prepared to set it aside. This was a question of the greatest importance; it interested thousands, and involved interests of great magnitude, and he certainly expected to find Gentlemen on the other side prepared to state their reasons for striking out a clause of this nature in violation of the settled law of the country—in violation of Acts of Parliament—in violation of the decision of a select committee appointed to inquire into the whole subject—in violation of the decisions of the House of Lords, and in violation of the rules of equity and common sense. The settled maxims and
819Mr. J. Stewart
 concurred in the recommendation of the hon. Baronet. There certainly was a distinct understanding when the party on the other side had a majority, and yet entered into a compromise with the minority, that no other motion should be interposed.Mr. Aglionby
 said, that upon every occasion lessees of Church property had always been considered, as having an interest which it would be the greatest injustice to deprive them of. Hon. Gentlemen knew that properly of this description had been to a great extent tied up in family settlements, and he was quite sure that if by a measure of this sort they rendered the title doubtful, no person would be found hereafter ready to advance money upon property of this description. He believed that this bill was extremely excellent in its object; the establishment of new churches and the extension of spiritual instruction, but desirable as that object was, it could not justify an act of injustice. With that feeling he must vote against the motion of the hon. Baronet.Mr. Phillpots
824 had no doubt whatever that the object of the promoters of this bill was pure and laudable, but the interests of the parties who held leases under the existing incumbent would be affected by the provisions of this bill, and in this way, that whereas they now held leases renewable upon certain conditions, namely, upon the payment of fines regulated by the interest of the individual who happened to be the incumbent at the time, they were about to be transferred, by the forcible interposition of Parliament, to becoming the lessees of others, the risk of whose
824Lord Stanley
lllllllll826ll trusted the House would allow him to state what sums of money were at issue in this case. In the case of Mr. Halstead, it appeared that his father gave 16,000lllllllll826llMr. Denison
827 differed from the opinion which had been expressed by his hon. Friend who had just spoken. Undoubtedly the division on this occasion would be one of rather a singular kind; yet he thought it would redound very much to the honour of the House, because it would be a division upon a private bill, in which individuals of all parties would be found to vote according to their own opinions and judgments, and not according to the opinions of any political party. Now, he conceived, that the estimate mentioned by his hon. Friend, had been made upon grounds the most fallacious. He would not enter into a discussion of the general principle, but in his judgment, in point of fact, there was a most material difference between the case of leases held under a chapter, and the case of leases held under a corporation sole. Where a life fell in, in the case of a lease held under an aggregate corporation, it might be difficult to get all the
827Dr. Lushington
829 said, he had so often trespassed upon the attention of the House upon the subject of this bill, that he
829Sir R. Inglis
 would express his regret that the bill did not go much farther. So far from its being a measure of confiscation of church property, not one farthing would be taken from the church. The bill would only make a better distribution of the property, and apply a surplus revenue to better purposes. It appeared it was, as far as it went, an excellent measure.Mr. Hume
l831830 had opposed this bill, not because it reformed too much, or too little, but because it was a kind of reform which would be less effective, and less in conformity with the principle of the institutions with which it dealt, than other reforms which might be applied with greater benefit to the Church. It had been suggested by very high authorities, that the chapters ought to discharge the functions of councils to the bishops, and the cathedrals be rendered useful as places for the theological education of the clergy belonging to the Church. The noble Lord had met this suggestion in a serious, calm, and considerate manner. But the noble Lord's proposition, in the shape of an objection, was this, that there were such differences of opinion in the Church, as would render it impracticable for successive bishops to make use of the advice of the same chapters as their councils, and that if the cathedrals were employed as places for theological education, it would only tend to create so many different sects and schools of opinion, that would produce a great and injurious diversity of doctrine throughout the country. That objection might have held good at a time when the Church of England was torn in pieces by the war of party, and when it might have been justly apprehended that the most injurious results would have followed such a course. The name and idea of party were now from day to day, and from year to year, becoming more odious and offensive to every good member of the Church of England, and were more and more repudiated, both
l831830Mr. W. Gladstone
 hoped, that there was still strength left among those connected with the Church to reject this measure. Until her Majesty's Government, which was a disgrace to the country, was changed, there would be no hope for the preservation of the Church.Colonel Sibthorp
832 observed, that the House by the vote to which it had just come, had decided, that mere possibility was the subject of valuation. Now, under this
832Mr. Darby
 in regard to the question of the hon. Member, did not propose to make any compensation to the lessees of the Church under this bill. The commissioners, in the cases to which the hon. Gentleman referred, would have power to renew the lease, and it would be for them to judge whether it was proper to renew it or not. At the same time he thought, with reference to certain matters, it would be fit that they should have a certain regard to the interests of the lessees. He owned, that it was a subject of difficulty. He could not vote for a clause giving general compensation, still there were cases which would not be fairly treated by abrogating the right of the lessees without giving indemnification or a power of renewal. He did not propose to give anything by this bill, because it was intended to leave a power in the hands of the commissioners to renew or not, and if they made it compulsory on the commissioners to renew, it was obvious, that they would be giving to the lessees a greater interest than they had at present; for supposing a person in the situation of lessor should not choose to renew, and should say, that he would take the chance of the lease falling in, he might now do so, and consequently they could not compel the commissioners to renew without increasing the lessee's interest. It was not therefore intended to give any power of indemnification under the present bill, but the whole subject must come under the consideration of Parliament in the next Session. He must say also one word as to the appointment of a person of learning and ability to a situation which he (Lord John Russell) considered similar to that of dean in one of the cathedral churches in the country; he was not acquainted with that reverend gentleman, he had never seen him, but he could hot disavow all the responsibility of the appointment, because the noble Lord at the head of her Majesty's Government had communicated to him the intention of recommending that gentleman to the Crown, and he could not offer any objection to the appointment.Lord John Russell,
 could not but think, that if the noble Lord entertained any doubt whether the lessees should have compensation, the point ought to be settled at once, because he could conceive nothing more calculated to produce injury than to leave such a question unsettled. He would not consent to be a party to holding out any expectation of compensation, because he was confident, that if the property remained in the hands in which it now was, their regard for the general interests of the Church would prevent a renewal of the leases. If he understood the noble Lord, that in future they were to have claims for compensation to be decided by that House, or entertained by the commissioners, he said distinctly, that they ought not to pass this bill without laying the foundation for the compensation which the House might determine ought to be given. But at a time when they were making great sacrifices on the part of the Church to afford spiritual instruction to the people, they ought not, as he thought, to deprive the people of that instruction to make any such compensation. His object, in consenting to this bill, was to promote what he believed the bill would promote—the spiritual instruction of the people—and whatever should tend to prevent that, should have his determined opposition.Mr. Goulburn
834 claimed to have the University of Cambridge upon a perfect equality with the University of Oxford. He did not see why there should be seven professorships of Oxford— why they should have annexed to them canonries in the collegiate Church of Christchurch, and that only two professorships in Cambridge should have the chance of having canonries. What he asked the noble Lord was, to endow the three professorships and the mastership of Jesus, in the
834Mr. Goulburn
 said, that if the House did not like the clause he had proposed, it might adopt that of the right hon. Gentleman, yet he had hardly given any valid objection to the clause as it had been proposed. The question with respect to the universities of Oxford and Christchurch turned upon the fact, that it was a collegiate establishment, but the cathedral of Ely was never considered part of the University of Cambridge. The clause would serve the purpose for which it was intended. As it stood, it had been altered to meet the wishes of the dean of Ely.Lord J. Russell
 hoped, that his right hon. Friend (Mr. Goulburn) was in error, and that a person resigning the professorship would not retain the canonry. The words were, "no one shall be eligible or qualified to hold" the canonry who was not one of these professors. If that were the meaning of the clause it would not require alteration.Lord Stanley
 said, that as the words were, "no one shall be eligible or qualified to hold," it appeared, that if the party resigned the professorship, he would be disqualified from longer holding the canonry.Dr. Lushington
 would then move to insert the word "four" instead of the word "two."Mr. Goulburn
"And whereas it is expedient, that the several establishments of the cathedral and collegiate churches of England and Wales should be maintained in their integrity, so far as relates to the number of members composing the said several establishments, and also so far as relates to the maintenance of the several colleges or corporations of minor canons and vicars choral of the said cathedral or collegiate churches; be it enacted, that nothing herein contained shall prevent any patron or patrons from collating any person duly qualified to any office, prebend, or dignity in any cathedral or collegiate church; provided always, that the estate, hereditaments, income, and emoluments, now by law invested in every such office, prebend, or dignity, shall go and be applied in manner according to the provisions of the present bill, any thing herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding."836 said, he regarded the bill as the destruction of the cathedral system; he would therefore propose a clause which would continue the framework of that system as now existing, in number, title, and dignity, leaving the property at the mercy of the noble Lord opposite. He moved the following clause:—
"And whereas it is expedient, that the several establishments of the cathedral and collegiate churches of England and Wales should be maintained in their integrity, so far as relates to the number of members composing the said several establishments, and also so far as relates to the maintenance of the several colleges or corporations of minor canons and vicars choral of the said cathedral or collegiate churches; be it enacted, that nothing herein contained shall prevent any patron or patrons from collating any person duly qualified to any office, prebend, or dignity in any cathedral or collegiate church; provided always, that the estate, hereditaments, income, and emoluments, now by law invested in every such office, prebend, or dignity, shall go and be applied in manner according to the provisions of the present bill, any thing herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding."836Sir R. Inglis
 thought that the clause was inconsistent with the general provisions of the bill. He could not think that it was at all desirable that the number of church dignitaries should be kept up, and he could not but imagine that the conferring of rank, without being accompanied by some emoluments, would not be so desirable as the hon. Baronet seemed to suppose. He should, therefore, oppose the motion.Lord John Russell
 expressed his intention to vote against the motion. The effect of the clause would be to strike out three-fourths of the bill; and however much he might concur in its principle, he could not consent to its adoption at this late stage of the measure.Mr. Goulburn
 said, he should support the clause moved by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, notwithstanding the inconsistency pointed out by his right hon. Friend. He would vote for it, not for the sake of offering pecuniary rewards to able young men, but to maintain these spiritual offices in the Church.Mr. Acland
 proposed a proviso to the 63d clause, reserving the existing rights as regarded deans.Mr. T. Acland
 replied, that ample reasons had been stated in the 4th report of the commissioners, presented in the year 1836, why the amendment of the hon. Gentleman should not be adopted.Lord J. Russell
840839 had no intention of doing anything which would delay the progress of the bill: on the contrary, he thought that much credit was due to the noble Lord for the course he had pursued in adopting the suggestions which had been made elsewhere. He was still of opinion, however, that the provision to be made for the churches of England and Scotland was not such as they had a right to expect, but still it was much better than the first which had been proposed, or in-
840839Mr. Pakington
841"That it is desirable that the lands commonly called the Clergy Reserves, and the proceeds arising from the sales thereof, be appropriated for the promotion of the religious and moral instruction of the people throughout the province." differed altogether from the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House as to the merits of the amendments which had been made in the bill by the noble Lord. He had understood, that the object of the Government by the present bill was to settle this question which had been a source of discord in the colony for the last twenty-five years. He understood from the letter of the noble Lord to the Governor of Canada, that the Government desired to satisfy the wishes of the majority of the people of Upper Canada on this subject, but he feared that some of the provisions that had been recently introduced into it would have anything but this result. He had on three several occasions presented petitions from the House of Assembly of Upper Canada on the subject of clergy reserves, and they protested on each occasion against the lands belonging to the people of that colony being appropriated in any thing like the way proposed in this bill. They however agreed, to prevent jealousies, that the lands in question should be sold, and that the results should be appropriated to the religious and general education of the people of the colony. It was therefore preposterous to expect that they would be satisfied with the mode now provided. Upper Canada, according to the Report on Clergy Reserves which he held in his hand, had repeatedly come to the following resolution:—
841"That it is desirable that the lands commonly called the Clergy Reserves, and the proceeds arising from the sales thereof, be appropriated for the promotion of the religious and moral instruction of the people throughout the province."Mr. Hume
Mr. Hume was content to risk his view and opinion of the bill upon one single sentence that had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny,—namely, that the clergy reserves had been granted by Parliament for the support of the Protestant clergy. He would leave the House to judge of the hon. Member's consistency after such an admission as that. The hon. Member had spoken of petitions that had been sent him to present to that House from speakers of the Colonial Assembly in three successive Parliaments. Now, one of these gentlemen was Mr. Bidwell, and he would ask the House whether they were prepared to place much confidence in any thing that proceeded from that gentleman. [Mr. HumeSir R. Inglis
842 said, that he wished to know from the noble Lord whether he had
842Sir J. Graham
 observed, that one reason for the non-insertion of the clergy reserves in Lower Canada was, that there had not been that source of disputes and of very great dissension that there had been in the Upper Province. A bill, too, had been passed for this purpose in the Upper province: and it had not been a matter of dissension in the Lower Province. He did not state this as a reason for not including the clergy reserves of the Lower Province; he only stated it as a reason why it was not originally introduced. Unless the thing could be done by the general concurrence, he should be sorry to embarrass the bill with any such clause.Lord John Russell
 stated, that unless the Lower Province was included in this bill, there would be a repetition of the scenes that had taken place in the Upper Province on this subject.Sir Charles Grey
 hoped that the noble Lord would include Lower Canada in this bill.Mr. W. Gladstone
 desired to see the clergy reserves sold in the shortest possible time, provided that no sacrifice was made of them. As to the Catholic church in Lower Canada, it was already very amply endowed.Sir James Graham
 said, it was essential that the produce of the sales should be vested in good securities, and he was not aware that there were any means of so doing in Upper Canada. He should propose, therefore, an amendment, based on the precedent of the act of the 7th and 8th of the late King, that the money should be paid over to officers appointed by her Majesty for that purpose, and by them be invested in the public funds of Great Britain.Mr. Goulburn
 thought it was exceedingly desirable to ensure the safe keeping of their funds, but disapproved of the proposal to invest them in this country, as so doing would deprive the provinces of all the advantages which that amount of capital lying within its limits must necessarily confer upon a new country. He thought there were plenty of securities in the province in which the funds could be safely invested.Sir C. Grey
 opposed the amendment, which would involve a most unpalateable reflection upon the public securities of Canada. In the bill of 1839, a provision had been included, giving the Governor-general the power to invest these funds either in the securities of the colony, or of this country; and this was one of the few provisions which was objected to by the Colonial Assembly. This showed the feelings which existed in the province on this subject, and he should therefore oppose the re-insertion of such a provision on the present occasion.Lord J. Russell
 said, that the fact of investing these funds in the British funds could not deprive the province of any of the advantages derivable from such an amount of capital, as it was specially provided that all the interest should return to the province. He should be glad to be informed by hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite, what securities they would propose to invest these funds in in Upper Canada?Sir J. Graham
845lll said, that, as this clause related to the office of treasurer to be appointed under this act, he was desirous of making a few observations to the House, in consequence of the papers which had been laid upon the table of the House. The committee would see by the succeeding clause, that the consolidated fund of Great Britain and Ireland was made liable for any deficiency when the sum in the hands of the treasurer, derived from the sale of the clergy reserves, was below 7,500845lllMr. Hawes
846 said that, under no clause of the bill could any such appoint-
846Sir George Grey
 concurred with the hon. Member for Lambeth. No money had ever been expended in the province of Upper Canada, connected with church affairs, but what had passed through the hands of the Bishop of Toronto.Mr. Hume
 defended the conduct of the bishop. He had always borne the character of a man of the most stubborn integrity.Sir Charles Grey
 regretted the transaction, and said that he had read the documents in question with the greatest surprise. He thought it premature to form an opinion; he should suspend his judgment. He thought the Governor-general ought not to have transmitted the statement without the knowledge of the bishop.Mr. Pakington
ex parte said, that the hon. Member for Lambeth had indulged in taunts and sarcasms against the bishop. He was not justified in the attack he had made. He was himself susceptible enough when attacked, as he could testify; he should be cautious, therefore, before he assailed others, to know the whole case. He had rarely heard a more severe speech than that of the hon. Member for Lambeth delivered in that House. He would not go so far as to call on the House for a sentence of acquittal for that rev. gentleman, but he must say that he thought it premature to come to any judgment on his conduct, more especially on the ex parteMr. Gladstone
847 said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had blamed the hon. Member for Lambeth for
847Mr. Warburton
 said, the hon. Member for Newark had designated the question raised by the hon. Member for Lambeth as premature. Now, he (Mr. Smith) did not think it premature, but he certainly considered it a little inopportune. The imagination of the hon. Member had been singularly fertile in supposing, that the conduct of the Bishop of Toronto had any connexion whatever with the sixth clause of this bill. It was a perfectly gratuitous supposition. But he (Mr. Smith) should not have troubled the committee with one word if the hon. Member for Newcastle had not thought proper to blame the Governor-general of Canada for sending home the despatch containing the result of his inquiry into the case of the Bishop of Toronto to the Colonial-office. For what could the hon. Gentleman blame the Governor-general? It was his duty to inquire into the transaction, and to disclose it to the Government at home. If his despatch had never been produced, there would have been a very loud and clamorous complaint made. He thought his hon. Friend had acted most properly in this transaction.Mr. V. Smith
 denied most distinctly that he had made any charge against the Governor-general of Canada for having instituted an inquiry into the transaction On the contrary, he had declared that it was the Governor-general's duty to make the most rigorous investigation into the whole matter; but the blame which he threw upon the Governor-general was for not having given notice to the Bishop of Toronto that he intended to make the transaction a subject of inquiry.Mr. Gladstone
 admitted that the hon. Gentleman did say that it was the duty of the Governor-general to inquire into the transaction; but he understood the hon. Gentleman also to say, that the Governor-general ought not to have sent the result of the inquiry home to the Colonial-office.Mr. V. Smith
848 said, that the alleged severity of the speech of his hon. Friend, the Member for Lambeth, consisted in a remarkably clear statement of facts, and in quotations from the letters of the Bishop
848Mr. Ward
Hear, hear, from Mr. Gladstone,ll said, that notwithstanding the somewhat angry reply of the hon. Member for Newark, he considered himself perfectly justified in bringing the question before the House. Every word he uttered was founded upon the papers laid on the Table of the House by the Secretary for the Colonies, which contained statements of facts upon the authority of the Governor-general of Canada. It appeared by these papers, that the Bishop of Toronto had borrowed trust funds for private purposes, and that the bursar of the college was a defaulter, in the first instance, of no less than 13,000Hear, hear, from Mr. Gladstone,llMr. Hawes
 stated his objections to the clause. He had heard no reason assigned for rendering the consolidated fund of this country liable to the payment of a sum which there were ample means in the colony to meet. He should take the sense of the Committee against the clause.Mr. Hume
Hansard,823 the representative of a constituency containing a large body of Church lessees, could not allow this bill to pass without making a few observations upon it. He thought this bill, if it came into law, would establish a very dangerous precedent. The principle of compensation had been admitted by that House every time that the subject of Church leases had come before it for the last eight or ten years. The principle also was clearly established when the Church-rate question was debated in 1837, and by none more ably than by some distinguished Members of the other side. Not only the right hon. Baronet the Member for Pembroke (Sir J. Graham) expressed his opinion on that
Hansard,823Mr. Lambton
 said, that he did not concur with his noble Friend in the arrangement that was made with respect to the Irish Church; but even if he had, he did not think the arguments used by his noble Friend upon the present question would have induced him to act otherwise than vote for the rejection of this clause. He did not consider the lessees under the Archdeacon of Surrey were in any degree in a similar position to the lessees under the bishops of Ireland. In the first place, the leases under the bishops of Ireland were held not for lives, but for twenty-one years; and the common practice was, to renew the lease every year on the payment of a certain sum, and the whole income of the bishop depended upon his receiving annually the sums given for the addition of one year to the existing leases. It was, therefore, next to impossible that any bishop so depending for his income could contest the point with the lessees holding under him. Parliament had, therefore, to make some arrangement which, while it enabled the bishop to receive his income, should be just to the lessees; for they had in the case of the Irish Church a much greater interest than could by possibility be possessed by the lessees in the present case; therefore, if he had been inclined to give compensation in the former case, he should not consider the argument applied to this case. Here was a great public benefit to be obtained, the extent of which no one could know, by which religious and spiritual instruction was to be provided for the people. The case of these lessees was simply this—here was a young man appointed to the archdeaconry of Surrey who had the right of a renewal of the leases held under him by persons who were much older than himself, and who, by withholding the renewal during their lives, and running his life against the lives in the existing leases, would forego a present advantage for the sake of a greater benefit that would ultimately arise to him by outliving them. He could not see that the present lessees had any claim whatever for compensation. He should vote against the clause.Mr. Goulburn
 rose to express an earnest hope that his hon. Friend the Member for Leicester would not persevere in his amendment. When he had voted for the adjournment of the debate to this day, it was with the prospect that they should proceed at once to the question of compensation, and that there should be in the first instance, at least, no further delay.Sir G. Grey
 had a petition to present against this bill, from Samuel Hackvale, of Chipping Norton, in the county of Oxford; which stated, that a proposed provision of the bill would entail great hardships upon the lessees of this property, and upon all persons similarly circumstanced; and praying to be heard by counsel against the proposed provision.Mr. Easthope
R. Inglis: hoped the House would not be induced to go on with this bill until they had given to those persons who were to be affected by the bill, and who had so recently known the intention of the hon. Baronet, to remove the compensation clauses, an opportunity of fairly being heard by the House. He hoped the hon. Baronet would not object to such a postponement as was necessary to give the party time to be heard by counsel against the provision which the hon. Baronet proposed. [Sir R. Inglis:Mr. Easthope
l822lllllllllllPechell:ll821820 said, that the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, and the hon. Member for Leicester, had complained that he had not spoken on this question. The same complaint had been made at the close of the last discussion. In point of fact, he had not that desire of making the same speech very frequently, which appeared to influence those two hon. Members. After a discussion of three hours and a half, as to what the provisions of this bill were, be certainly thought it more respectful to the House not to occupy their time upon the subject, and more especially after stating his view of the case in the first instance. The hon. and learned Member for Honiton, perhaps, was not present on that occasion, or did not attend to him, but he certainly stated, at some length, and with as much clearness as he could, the grounds on which he recommended that the amendment should be introduced into the bill. The attention of the House had been called that evening to a petition from a Gentleman who prayed to be heard by counsel against the provision which he wished to be introduced into the bill. He
l822lllllllllllPechell:ll821820Sir R. Inglis
861 rose to move as an
861Mr. Grimsditch
862 contrasted the state of the poor in our workhouses in former times with what it was at present. Instead of that indiscriminate admixture of poverty and vice which formerly prevailed, they now had that classification which tended so much to improve the condition of the inmates. He also contended that the condition of the poor generally was improved—that those incendiary fires which prevailed so extensively in agricultural districts some years ago had now all ceased—a proof of the improved moral condition of the labouring classes. The New Poor Law had also saved three millions a year to the country. But, large as that saving was, he would not defend it on that ground, if he did not find it in other respects beneficial to the public. He would refer as an illustration of the improved system in workhouse unions to the Norwood schools. Formerly the system with respect to the conduct of the children in those schools was so bad, that few persons could be induced to take them as
862Mr. Slaney
 denied, that the saving so much talked of had any existence, except in the speeches of those who spoke of them, and eventually it would be found that the expenses would be increased. With respect to the Poor Law Commissioners, he would say, that they had ample time to carry out the law, and were no longer required. The act itself was so opposed to the feelings of the people, that it would be impossible to work it without the aid of the new rural police. He would support the amendment.General Johnson
 would not now oppose the third reading of the bill, but he hoped that the country would no longer be saddled with the expense of Poor Law Commissioners, which could not now be necessary.Mr. L. Hodges
 thought it was most injurious to the principle which the Government sought to establish, to have the settlement of this question delayed from time to time. He hoped that Government would bring in a bill for the purpose of settling it early in the next session.Mr. Buck
 contended, that nothing had yet been shown to prove that the Poor Law Commissioners ought to be continued. There was, he maintained, no necessity for this bill now, for the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had promised to introduce a bill on the subject early in the next session.Mr. W. Williams
 did not think that the present was the proper period for discussing the merits of the bill; but, without intending to go into those details, he must observe that the Poor Laws had effected a very considerable saving to the country.Mr. Ward
 would not oppose the third reading; but though he wished much that the question were settled, he was rather glad than otherwise that the bill which the noble Lord had introduced this Session, and subsequently withdrawn, had not come into a law, as it would have made things infinitely worse than they were before.Mr. Darby
863 would vote against the third reading, for he would oppose the
863Mr. Wakley
 would also support the amendment, because he was anxious to get rid of the Poor Law Commissioners.Sir C. Douglas
l denied that the New Poor Law had been productive of any good. He had ever protested against the bill as most injurious, oppressive, and degrading to the poor man and the country. He had daily instances before him on his own property of the bad effects of this law. He had heard of a pledge on the part of the Government that a bill should be introduced next session to settle this question; but he owned that he had no respect for such pledges, or those who made them. He would not trust any one of them with a 5lColonel Sibthorp
 said, that the opinions of the hon. and gallant Member had not much influence in the House, and fortunately were not calculated to do much harm out of it. The only question they had now to consider was, whether they would renew the bill for one year, to prevent things being thrown into confusion, until time should be afforded for considering the question fully early in the next Session.Mr. F. Maule
864 said, he agreed entirely in the sentiments which had been expressed by the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln, as to the enormous powers which were given to the Poor-law Commissioners. He thought the present machinery of the Poor-law system was not necessary for the purpose, and that when the expense was taken into consideration, it would be found that it had not answered in that respect. It had, too, created an ill feeling that had never before existed in England between the labouring classes and their employers, between the rich and the poor; that was one evil arising from it which ought to be remedied. When it was considered that generally the poor man wanted only temporary relief, it was hard to throw him into such a situation
864Sir F. Burdett
866865 said, that when the noble Lord objected, on a former occasion, to postpone the third reading of this bill, he appeared to congratulate himself on the almost unanimous concurrence of the House on this subject. The present discussion would show the noble Lord that the opinions of a great number of hon. Members were not so favourable to the Poor-law Amendment Act as he supposed, and if the prolongation of the Act had been proposed at an earlier period of the Session, he had great doubts whether the House would have sanctioned the continuance of the Act in its present state. The arguments of his hon. Friend, the Member for Macclesfield appeared to him to be perfectly fair and just; because, when the powers of the commissioners were about to expire, did the noble Lord come down with a full and complete measure to introduce into the Poor-law Act those important alterations, which, he believed it was acknowledged on all sides, were imperatively required? When the noble Lord submitted to this House a measure in a former Session for prolonging the Poor-law Act, it was unaccompanied by those alterations which he thought from the feelings expressed in this House, he was justified in saying were really necessary; nor was the measure brought forward at a time when the House had a fair opportunity of discussing it. The House, however, consented to prolong the powers of the commissioners for one year, but then it was only with the express understanding that early in this Session a measure would be brought forward comprising the necessary alterations. In 1839 the noble Lord could not say he was not prepared with the information that was requisite for bringing forward such a measure, because he bad had before
866865Mr. W. Attwood
867 said, that with regard to the observations of the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, they seemed to show that he had given much valuable time and attention to the history of the Poor-law Amendment Act, and the proceedings connected with it, in the various Sessions of Parliament. Now, the hon. Member for Macclesfield, in speaking of the history of the Poor-law Amendment Act, said it was only a temporary act, and the powers of the commissioners were only temporary. But the intention of those who introduced the measure was, that the commissioners were to be a permanent body; and it was only because the experiment was new, and might lead to very important consequences, that five years were taken as the time for the duration of the power of the commissioners, so that Parliament might again have the opportunity of considering the subject. The bon. Member for Greenwich had asked why he had not proposed to follow the recommendations of the committee. The fact was, that most of them were recommendations as to the mode of administering the law by the commissioners, and had been sedulously attended to by those gentlemen, and the greater part of them practically carried out. With regard especially to the most important part—that which related to medical relief—the commissioners had given the greatest attention to the subject, and had deavoured to carry into effect the recommendations of the committee. But there were other recommendations of the committee which required the sanction of that House—such as the extension of the powers of the commissioners to certain places that were not under their operation
867Lord J. Russell
 could not agree with the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln that the entire blame for the introduction of this measure rested with the Ministers. Both the parties in that House were equally liable to blame on the subject. He protested against the bill altogether, because he thought it inflicted a serious evil on the working classes, and believed its operation in manufacturing towns was even more severely felt than in agricultural districts. He could not see the justice of refusing a little out-door relief to an honest but poor man who really stood in need of it.Mr. Muntz
869 begged the indulgence of the House in moving for leave to bring in a bill to define the boundaries of corporate towns in Ireland, and to grant compensation to corporate officers in certain cases. He knew the course he was taking was somewhat irregular, but he thought the circumstances of the case would render it excusable. The present bill which he proposed to bring in had reference to the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Bill, which was at that time pending in the House of Lords. The propositions of the present bill were
869Viscount Morpeth
 said, that as the House was so thin he thought it inexpedient to take the final division upon the present stage of the bill. His objections to it, however, remained the same. The more he looked at the measure, the more convinced he was of the impolicy of so soon again interfering with the criminal law. No doubt, the punishment of death ought to be altered; but this bill was so ingeniously drawn, as to make it necessary either to accept it wholly, or reject it wholly.Mr. Fox Maule
 regretted, that on every occasion when the friends of this measure came down to discuss it, the Government should fly from a division. He was rejoiced, however, to see that the bill had already arrived at a stage when further opposition, even on the part of the Government, must be useless.Mr. F. Kelly
 said, there were many parts of this bill which would render it impossible for him to agree to it as a whole. He thought that in a matter of so much importance, the House was bound to make special enactments for the abolition of the punishment of death in particular cases, instead of introducing all the different crimes into the preamble, as was the case in this bill, and Mien legislating upon them.Mr. Goulburn
 said, that the object which he, as well as the hon. and learned Member had in view, would have been much better attained had the bill contained special enactments. But, as it was, many offences of more or less magnitude were included in the same category, and because they had formerly been subjected to the same penalty of death, they were now, whatever might be their enormity, all to be visited with transportation for different terms, or with imprisonment. He very much doubted whether the bill would succeed this session, and if it were to do so, it was certainly not concocted in that mature and deliberate manner in which such a subject ought to be dealt with.The Attorney-General
901 could not allow a discussion of that kind to terminate without attempting to infuse into it a spirit somewhat more comprehensive than that which had characterized it, and he was anxious to place before the House some circumstances of an extraordinary nature that had occurred within the last ten years. When the noble Lord first assumed the portfolio of foreign affairs, he adopted a new system of foreign alliances, and he told them that the first guarantee of his intention would be a commercial treaty with France. Nine years had elapsed, and that treaty had not appeared. Whether they were any nearer to its accomplishment now than at first was a question he would leave the House to determine. It appeared to him that the noble Lord, in forming his new arrangement, occasioned two of the severest blows to fall upon the commerce of this country that it had ever experienced. With Poland and the Black Sea, this country lost a commerce with twenty-one millions of men, in order to cement the alliance with France. Those were amongst the results of the new system of the noble Lord. In anticipation of the promised commercial treaty with France, we had supported the policy of that country in Belgium, in Spain, and in Portugal. What were the fruits of this support of interests which were not English interests, except so far as France might be considered the friend of England? We had been rewarded by French blockades established
901Mr. D'Israeli
 complained that these general objections should be brought forward at so late a period of the discussion upon this measure as upon the schedule being proposed to be agreed to. With regard to the certificate, any person of known good character could obtain it from a magistrate upon the representation of two credible witnesses; the burden of certifying, therefore, not being thrown upon the magistrate from any knowledge of his own. This, however, was not an objection which must be fatal to the bill, and he thought that it ought not to be rejected upon such a ground. The same law which was proposed to exist in all cases had already been long in force with regard to Quakers and other separatists, and the evidence of persons of those creeds, which had been hitherto excepted from the general rule, had been received with the greatest confidence. He conceived, that the bill might be easily amended to suit the views of the House.Mr. Hawes
Sandon898de omnibus rebus had hoped, that the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool, would have suggested something valuable in the way of taking off restrictions, or altering our own tariffs with a view to improving the commerce of the country. But the noble Lord's speech was most extraordinary, for though a Member for a great commercial town, he had absolutely suggested nothing of the sort. He had talked of Mexico and of Spain, and would have this country proceed by blockade with respect to Mexico, and by retaliatory duties with respect to Spain. He congratulated the people of Liverpool upon possessing a representative who was so well acquainted with their interests. As to the hon. Member who had just sat down, he had made a speech Sandon898de omnibus rebusMr. Hawes
879 was willing to accede to the request of the hon. Member so far as to leave it optional with the judge; inser-
879Mr. Hawes
 replied, that very point was embodied in a bill introduced last year, and objected to effectually by hon. Gentlemen opposite: but if the right hon. Baronet would allow him to put his name at the back of a bill to allow an immediate declaration, he would immediately draw a bill, and introduce it in the next session. He was afraid it was an appeal in vain.Mr. Hawes
: As the hon. Gentleman had consented to raise the rate of interest from 12½ to 15 per cent., one great objection which he had to the bill was removed; but he did not altogether approve of the amendment, which went to abolish fines: for although the hon. Member had increased the rate of interest by 2½ per cent., he was afraid it would not cover the loss occasioned by the abolition of fines.Mr. Hawes
873 said, that the right hon. Gentleman was quite consistent in opposing the bill, though he was not consistent with himself as to the grounds on which he placed his opposition. Last year, the right hon. Gentleman had opposed a similar bill on the ground that it offered no security that the objections of parties to the taking of oaths were conscientious. In the present bill, a clause had been introduced requiring that parties who objected to the taking of an oath should produce a certificate of their religious professions. The right hon. Gentleman was opposed to that provision, and he also complained that the bill did not give relief to all the parties for whom relief was intended. But one of the objections of the right hon. Gentleman last year was, that the bill was too extensive in its provisions. It was hard to please the right hon. Gentleman, and it would be better for him to state at once that he objected to any change whatever. The present system was equally liable to objections, and did not provide a guarantee that parties who stated themselves to belong to the sect of Quakers or other sects which were now relieved from taking oaths really did belong to them. What became, then, of the right hon. Gentleman's objection on that score? The right hon. Gentleman, knowing he could not maintain his proposition for a moment, sought to inflict upon every conscientious member of the Church of England that which was in effect a disqualification. He had taken every precaution in the bill to ensure the administration of justice. Every party who objected from religious scruples to take an oath, must produce evidence as to his character, and have made previously a declaration that he had conscientious scruples against taking an oath. On the ground that conscientious scruples should be respected,
873Mr. Hawes
897896895894 was of opinion, that the noble Lord who had just sat down, had not fairly answered the speech of his noble Friend. His noble Friend had ex-
897896895894Mr. Maclean
 objected to the imposition of hard labour as part of the penalty; he thought the simple imprisonment would be quite sufficient, and he would therefore move as an amendment to leave out the words, "and kept to hard labour."Mr. Finch
872871870 said, that the House had as yet not had the advantage of having heard the merits of this bill discussed, as
872871870Mr. Goulburn
 observed, that in some cases the testimony of an individual might be valuable to himself; but in ninety-nine out of every hundred cases the testimony was for the benefit of other parties. Now, if the House did not pass this bill, they would deprive those other parties of the power of receiving the testimony of honest witnesses; and if they wanted the testimony of an unwilling witness, he might say, that he declined to take an oath—that he believed in the literal meaning of the command, "swear not at all," and thus an unwilling or dishonest witness might avoid giving any testimony. The majority, therefore, were interested in this measure, and they were not legislating for individuals, but for the public generally, and were enabling them to obtain the testimony of parties who had, or professed to have, scruples of conscience.Mr. Warburton
899 said, it was no doubt true, that the blockade of Mexico had been raised; but had France, he would ask, abated one jot of her iniquitous demands on that country? Had France remitted one shilling of the 800,000 dollars she claimed? France had refused, and Mexico, in order to replenish her exhausted treasury, had imposed a duty of 25 per cent, on British goods consumed within her territories. The effect of this measure, he knew, was, that extensive orders for British goods had been already countermanded. Why had not the noble Lord, he would ask, interfered to stop the blockade of Buenos Ayres? So long as the foreign affairs of the country were managed as at present, that blockade could not be expected to terminate ex-
899Mr. E. Tennent
 said, that the parties interested in this bill had consented to abandon the principle of fines, and in consideration of this he was willing to raise the rate of interest on loans, from 12½ to 15 per cent. He was sure that this would meet the views of the hon. Member for Lambeth, and he would therefore move amendments, to the effect that the interest be so raised, and that it would not be lawful for the societies to impose any fines at all.Mr. John Abel Smith
ll903 said that in regard to the rate of interest, he had taken great pains to calculate the expences of the different societies, and he was fully convinced that 15 per cent was amply sufficient to meet them. In regard to fines, he was also convinced from experience of
ll903Mr. J. A. Smith
900 complained that the hon. Member had brought forward his accusations against the noble Lord, when by the forms of the House, the noble Lord was unable to reply to him. If the hon. Gentleman had brought forward his allegations at a time when the noble Lord could have risen, he would have made retaliatory statements; but it was a deviation from the ordinary course, after a Minister of the Crown had delivered his speech, to come down upon him with a charge which he was precluded from answering. It appeared to him that the hon. Gentleman ought to have avoided allusion to Spain. Supposing the hon. Gentleman's aspirations had been heard, and his wishes granted, supposing the cause of despotism had triumphed, and that liberty had fallen—supposing Don Carlos had ascended the throne of Spain—what had that to do with the question? The question before the House was of a commercial nature, and yet the hon. Gentleman asked if payment had been obtained for the arms sent out to Spain. Was that a commercial question? Was
900Mr. Sheil
902, without entering into de-
902Mr. Ewart
877876 thought the members of the Church of England had great cause to complain of the course which had been pursued on this occasion by the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, and the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge. Whenever any measure was brought in, like this, which opened the
877876Mr. Ewart
875 acknowledged that it was not without considerable impatience, and even something approaching to intolerable impatience, that he heard his hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford state, that no man could pretend to be a member of the Church of England who had the least scruples against taking oaths. His hon. Friend formed that argument upon one of the articles of the Church of England. When he remembered there was a text which said, "Swear not at all," he thought a person might reasonably, with every inclination
875Sir Charles Grey
 had no prepossession in favour of hard labour as a punishment; and he thought that it ought never to be inflicted, because it was an infamous punishment, unless in infamous cases. Here, however, they had a party virtually guilty of perjury; and if ever this degree of punishment ought to be inflicted, this was the case in which it ought to be retained.The Attorney-General
C. Grey, Hear, hear874"We judge the Christian religion doth not prohibit, but that a man may swear when the magistrate requireth it in a cause of faith and charity, so it be done according to the prophets teaching, in justice, judgment, and truth."Hear, hear entertained a very different hope from that expressed by the hon. Member who had just stated, that the House could not refuse to sanction a principle which it had sanctioned in former Sessions. The hon. Gentleman might with more reason say, that the House ought to agree this day to the principle to which it agreed on Tuesday fast.—[C. Grey, Hear, hear874"We judge the Christian religion doth not prohibit, but that a man may swear when the magistrate requireth it in a cause of faith and charity, so it be done according to the prophets teaching, in justice, judgment, and truth."Hear, hearSir B. Inglis
 said, that there were two certificates which must be perfected before the party could be exempted. First, there must be the certificate of two magistrates that the party was a moral and religious character, and having that certificate he must go to the quarter sessions, or such places as oaths of allegiance were taken, and there enter into the declaration. Now the party could produce the certificate of the magistrates, yet that alone would not be sufficient; he must also produce a solemn declaration, and that second never could be produced, because it must be entered in a book and filed in the court. He would ask the hon. Gentleman who introduced this bill, what would happen if a party, summoned suddenly as a juror or a witness, should have a conscientious objection to take an oath, and yet should not have made the preliminary declaration, would the hon. Member prosecute such a man?Sir Robert Peel
880 said, that he objected to the bill now before the House, because he conceived that the result of it would be to allow every person called upon to give evidence in a court of justice to do so upon such a form of affirmation as he pleased to say was binding upon his conscience, The certificate required to be
880Sir R. Peel
lllllllllllllllll893lllllll892891890889888 said, that the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down had undoubtedly relieved him from a considerable degree—he would not say of apprehension, but of natural curiosity. He certainly had felt curious respecting the points on which the noble Lord would dwell, in the hope of establishing that
lllllllllllllllll893lllllll892891890889888Viscount Palmerston
 said, that if the revenue was in a flourishing condition, he would support a proposition for the reduction of duties; but as there was at present a positive and acknowledged deficiency, he could not be the person to propose a reduction.Lord Sandon
llllll887llllll886llllll885lll884llll883882 rose to address the House on behalf of the commerce of this country, the interests of which were surely deserving of at least one heating in the Session. The noble Lord opposite had often assured the House that no Minister bad ever done so much for the foreign trade of the country as himself. He thought it, therefore, his duty to call the attention of the House to some points which induced him to come to a different conclusion as to the conduct of the noble Lord. There were two points of
llllll887llllll886llllll885lll884llll883882Viscount Sandon
 wished that the hon. Baronet should assign some reason for the postponement.Captain Peckell
 said, that as the motion was not immediately proceeded with, he would move that the bill should be read a third time that day three months.Mr. Hume
905 would appeal to hon. Members on both sides whether the course taken by the hon. Member for Kilkenny on the motion for postponing the third
905Sir R. H. Inglis
 considered the bill a public one.Mr. Hume
 wished to ask whether it were the intention of the hon. Baronet, whenever the third reading might come on, to attempt to introduce such a clause as that which the House had rejected the other evening.Mr. Aglionby
 said, the postponement was not for that object; but he would not follow the extremely inconvenient course of discussing the question on the mere motion of the adjournment of the third reading of a private bill.Sir R. H. Inglis
 said, that the course of the hon. Member for Kilkenny was most unjustifiable.The Earl of Darlington
 denied, that he was acting unfairly. A paper had been put into his hands, in which it was stated that an attempt would be made by the hon. Baronet to take from those individuals, to whom the House had decided that compensation should be given, the advantage of that decision.Mr. Hume
 said, it appeared to him, if his hon. Friend intended to move to rescind the decision the House had come to, he ought to-morrow to give distinct notice to that effect. The House would be establishing a most embarrassing precedent if, when a Gentleman moved the postponement of a bill of which he had charge from one day to another, an opportunity should be given of moving an amendment on that question. The House had set a different precedent on many occasions, and he had acted in a different manner. He thought that every purpose of justice would be answered if his hon. Friend would on a future day give distinct notice of his intention.Sir R. Peel
 said, the noble Lord who had charge of the bill had, in some measure, admitted that some steps must be necessary, because he thought that the interest of the directors would induce them to comply with the remonstrance of the Board of Trade; but they ought to leave nothing to chance—they ought either not to legislate, or they ought to make it compulsory.Mr. Aglionby
 did not think that the arguments of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Pembroke, were at all sufficient to show, that the clause could have any effect in protecting the public from danger. In the case which had been alluded to, he believed the accident to have been in some degree attributable to the early period at which the railway had been opened; but he must say, that the directors had been urged to give the public the earliest opportunity of employing it by local newspapers and by other means.Mr. Aglionby
 cautioned the committee as to adopting this clause; because, if they took the first step, they might go on until they called for an account of the profits of any company, or of the Bank of England, and carried out the principle to all trades, and to the meanest description of persons.Mr. Turner
 thought there would be no benefit derived from minute inquiry, and that the principle was wrong; but it was important it should be generally understood, that railroads were a monopoly, and nothing but a monopoly, and ought to be treated as such. Whether they were carriers for the public, or carriers for other carriers, or were the medium for other railways, it made no difference; in all cases they might charge what they pleased. And it was perfectly well known to every one, that the introduction of a new gas company, or new water company, instead of reducing the rates paid by the public for those articles, increased them.Mr. Morison
933 was obliged to make a short statement on the subject of the bill, and take the chance of a longer and more satisfactory debate on another night. He entertained strong objections to the present bill, which would alter the established principle of our law of rating that had subsisted since the time of Elizabeth. The hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to exempt from rating that description of property called stock in trade. The necessary consequence of exempting one class of property from rating was the imposition of increased burdens on another, and therefore this bill was, strictly speaking, an augmentation of taxes on every other species of property, to which no compensating advantage was given. Representations had been made to him that in most places a very heavy police rate was paid to protect the very property which the bill was intended to exempt. The printed communications from the Poor Law commissioners showed that a vast quantity of property would escape rating under the bill which ought, on every principle of justice, to pay its proportion. By removing liability to the rate from this, great injury would be inflicted on every other species of property. The principle of the law of Elizabeth was, that it should bear equally on all parties. If that principle were to be altered by such a measure as the present, Government should take care to grant Corresponding advantages to the property which would suffer from its operation. He contended that the bill would press very hardly on the owners of tithe. In their case the rate would be charged upon the full amount of the property, including the maintenance of the owner and the subsistence of servants. In the case of the owner of an estate, the rate would be charged on the sum paid to him as rent, the allowance for his own maintenance, and the subsistence of servants being exempted. Another circumstance, that the person on whom they were pressing was the only professional person whose professional income was taxed by the state, was an additional inducement why they should do nothing that would operate injuriously on the interests of the ecclesiastical tithe-owner. Various modes of relief might be adopted; the law might be left as it was, or some provision might be made as to the proportion in which ecclesiastical tithes should be rated with reference to other species of
933Mr. Goulburn
934 was at a loss to understand what was the intention of the right hon. Gentleman. Was he opposed to going into committee at all? Or did he really think that it would be better to let the law remain as it was? If the right hon. Gentleman thought so, he was the only man in the House, or in the country, who held that opinion. The right hon. Baronet had most forcibly pointed out the other evening the necessity for an alteration, and with some justice complained of the Government for not having sooner brought in a measure to remedy the inconvenience of the existing law. It had been found utterly impossible that a rate on stock in trade could be so modelled as to be free from legal objections. That arose from the word "inhabitants" in the 43d Elizabeth; and for the purpose of applying a remedy this bill was introduced. In fact, the law had become quite odious, and except in a very few instances, no attempt had been made to enforce it. Then the bill made that law which was at present usage. The right hon. Gentleman had not said that even the tithe-owners had reason to complain of the measure; he had only contended that one particular class, the ecclesiastical tithe-owners, would be injured. But what was the difference between tithe and land? One was just as much real property as the other. The rate on land was made on a computation of the value which a solvent tenant would pay for it, after all costs and charges were discharged. On exactly the same principle tithe was to be rated. If, then, the owner of land had no reason to complain, neither had the owner of tithe generally reason to complain; and what was the distinction between lay and ecclesiastical tithe? It might be true that the ecclesiastical tithe-owner received his
934The Attorney-General
 agreed, that either this bill, or some such bill, must pass; for we could not go on any longer as we were going on at present; for there was now no rate which could not be successfully appealed against. He wanted to know from the hon. and learned Attorney-general whether a clause might not be introduced into the bill defining what machinery was to be considered attached to the freehold, and what not? In other words, he wanted to know whether the hon. and learned Attorney-general would define in this bill the property which ought to be rated, and that which ought not?Sir E. Wilmot
 thought that it would be better to pass a temporary bill upon this subject, and to take the whole matter into consideration early next session.Mr. Darby
 agreed with the hon. Members who had preceded him, that it was absolutely necessary to pass some measure on this subject. But whence had that necessity arisen? From the circular of the Poor-law commissioners, and from nothing else. He deprecated the practice which had recently sprung up—namely, that the Poor-law commissioners should issue their mandates throughout the country, and should thereby overturn every thing which had hitherto been considered law.Captain Wood
ll922 said he could not but feel surprised that a clause so obnoxious and tyrannical should have been introduced. It did nothing less than empower
ll922Captain Boldero
924 proposed to move an amendment removing from the inquisition of the Board of Trade all the purely private concerns of the railway companies, while, at the same time, it would admit of their obtaining all the information really required for the public service. It was most important that there should be some authentic register of the traffic upon the railways, but he would much rather that this bill were attacked for being insufficient ill its enactments than for being too stringent. For the purpose of providing all that was necessary for the public, and at the same time of avoiding the objectionable parts of this clause, a clause had been placed in his hands, which had been agreed to by many influential parties connected with these companies, and which he thought was very likely to be adopted by the committee. This clause he would move by way of amendment. The effect of it was to enable the Board of Trade to call for accounts with regard, first, to the total number of passengers and the aggregate number of miles they travel over each railway. The total tonnage of goods and the number of miles they travel over, also an account of all personal injuries to passengers, and an account of the average tollage paid on passengers and merchandize. These were the provisions of the clause which he wished to substitute in the room of the present one; but, in addition, he thought that if one railroad company was called upon to furnish such a return, all should be called upon, as it would be extremely invidious if they made a distinction, Again, he should propose, with
924Lord G. Somerset
 thought that it would be advisable to draw a distinction between accidents of a serious or trivial nature. When, however, a serious injury was inflicted, he thought that the railroad directors should have sufficient inspection over their servants to insure their obtaining a knowledge of it. Railroad directors could not always insure proper conduct on the part of their servants, but they had the means in their power of controlling them to a considerable extent; he thought it would be an additional security for the public if returns were enforced of all accidents where personal injury was experienced; they should also know, as far as they possibly could, the cause of such accidents, for they sometimes occurred from the insufficiency of means of conveyance provided, or from other similar censurable causes. He objected to the insertion in his clause of such returns as had been suggested by the noble Lord, as to the expense of conveyance on railroads for passengers or for the transit of goods. He did not think that the House should interfere with the profits of railroad companies; and whether they were 1¼ or 25 per cent., he did not conceive that the House had anything to do with it. As for the profits or losses on the Liverpool and Manchester railroad for the conveyance of goods, he did not think that it would justify the House interfering. He would not, therefore, consent to adopt any words into the clause by which the House would be induced to pry into private matters. With respect to their expenditure or income, let the companies manage it as they thought fit without the interference of the House; and, in his opinion, the only returns that they could properly demand from these bodies were such as was necessary to insure Safety to the public, and to prevent the commission of fraud.Lord Granville Somerset
 thought that there ought to be a certain time allowed before the notice should come into effect, that parties might be made aware of the law, and have time to comply with it, without injuriously stopping railways now nearly finished. He proposed, therefore, to insert after the word "that," the words "after two months from the passing of this Act."Lord Granville Somerset
929 said, he wished to obviate by the returns an evil which existed on some railroads, where the labouring classes were shut out of the carriages altogether. As to the objection to the words, "tolls and other charges," it had been asked, "What other charges were there?" That he wanted to know. On the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, the rates as to goods were limited, but he had heard complaints that an additional charge had been levied on goods under the head of "porterage," and if he had introduced the term "porterage," then the act would have been evaded by a charge being made for "packing." It was important that the
929Lord Seymour
 should not object to striking out the clause as it stood, but he was not prepared at present to adopt the new clause suggested by the noble Lord. The amendment proposed did not give all that was required; for he thought that it was not only desirable to know the number of passengers which travelled on the railroad, but it was important that they should know what means of conveyance was furnished on each railroad to the labouring classes, and also which railroads did, and which did not, furnish such moans of conveyance. He thought also that they should not only have a return of the accidents by which injuries were inflicted upon passengers, but also returns of accidents by which property was injured. With regard also to the tolls and rates on railroads, the public should be made fully aware of the difference, and what was charged on the public in the shape of tolls. He also thought that there should be a registry of the servants employed on the railroads, because he understoood that at present it was by no means uncommon, when a servant was dismissed by one railroad company for neglect or misconduct, at once to get employ on another railroad. As the House appeared to object to the clause as it stood he would not press it.Lord Seymour
s.923 said, the object of the clause was this: the principle of a supervision of railways having been admitted, it
s.923Lord Seymour
911 did not impose any penalty, if a railroad which was unfit were opened, after notice, although there should be a remonstrance against it, because he thought that if the Board of Trade should remonstrate against the road as unfit to be opened, or as endangering the public, it was so much the interest of the railways to attend to the remonstrance, that it was not necessary to give the Board of Trade the absolute power of saying whether it should be opened or not.911Lord Seymour
918 said, the object of this clause was, not to take away from the railway directors that responsibility to which they were already subjected, but there were many cases in which the inspection would be very useful. He would take the case of the Croydon Railway, which had been referred to in the Committee. It was found that a very dangerous arrangement had been made, by which the stations were placed, and the traffic on the line was conducted, in a manner as to render it exceedingly probable, that some accident might have happened. If such an inspection as was now proposed had then taken place, he had no doubt that the mere statement of the danger which might arise would have been sufficient to induce the directors to alter the arrangement. There were many other points in
918Lord Seymour
919 said, they had been informed by the noble Lord, that in discussing this clause, they were, in fact, involving the principle of this bill; so that, in fact, they were now resuming the debate which, but for the lateness of the hour, would have taken place on the second reading. He begged in the first instance to state his opinion that no ground had been made out for this bill—there had been no proof of practical inconvenience or of danger accruing from the existing system, nor had any reason been assigned why the bill should go so much farther than the recommendations of the report of the committee, conferring powers and a jurisdiction which it never contemplated. It had been argued that this species of superintendence was necessary, because the railways were practically monopolies. But he denied that they were monopolies in such a sense as to justify this measure. On the contrary, it was perfectly competent to parties to come to Parliament next session to allow the formation of a new line from London to Manchester. To be sure, his hon. Friend below him (Mr. M. Philips) did not believe in the probability of any such application being made, but he (Mr. Hawes) held in his hand a paper which proved that at all events the project had been entertained. Then, what became of the argument for the bill, founded on the existence of monopoly in the railroad companies. Nor did he see that the necessity for the bill was made out on any more practical grounds. Where was the proof
919Mr. Hawes
 said, that he believed the railway directors did not object to the provisions of this clause.Mr. Hawes
 said, one of two things must be done—either the minute and precise returns required by the noble Lord should be furnished, or the Board of Trade must have the general power of calling for returns. He could conceive nothing more dangerous than such a general power. On the other hand, if returns so minute, as described by the noble Lord, were required from railroad companies, it would inflict great and deep injustice. He knew that railroad companies were desirous of giving every necessary information, but they desired to have the information defined.Mr. Hawes
 thought it was not proper to institute an inquisitorial or vexatious inquiry into minute points. In other countries, they were beginning to expend large sums in the construction of railways, and yet no restrictions were imposed there. If, then, such restrictions were imposed here, it was likely that capital would find its way into France, and be invested there. He hoped the restrictions that were imposed would not be more stringent than was necessary to carry into effect the objects which the public and the company must have in view—namely, to make the railroads beneficial to the proprietors themselves and to the public.Mr. Baines
 believed it to be quite unimportant whatever way the blank was filled up. It only required that the road should not be opened till after one month's notice, and if the directors were wise they would continue to give notice during the progress of the railway.Sir Edward Sugden
914 begged to throw it out
914Sir E. B. Sugden
 said, that as they had inserted his noble Friend's amendment, he would suggest that the words now in debate should be left out. And whilst he was up he must remark, that he was very much struck with the observations of the hon. Member for Walsall (Mr. Finch). He wished to see the object of the notice. They were imposing an unnecessary restriction, by causing the notice to be given, if it could not be followed up by any order, regulation, or restriction. He could not, therefore, understand the object of amending the clause, till he was told of the meaning of the clause itself.Sir Edward Sugden
 could not see the object of causing the railways to give notice at all; it seemed to him to be utterly useless. The railway companies were required by the bill, to give a notice to the Board of Trade previous to any opening, and they might send, if they should think fit, an inspector to inspect the railroad, and of course to make a report. Now, he would ask the noble Lord whether he intended to impose any penalty or punishment if any railway intended to be opened should be declared by the inspector to be unfit to be opened? He had looked through the act, and could not see any penalty for opening railroads declared unfit, and without that the notice appeared to be unnecessary.Mr. Finch
 said, it was manifest that a great change in the mode of travelling had been effected from one end of the country to the other, and it was desirable to obtain every information by which to enable Parliament at a future period to determine what rate the railway companies ought to charge.Mr. Finch
entirely agreed with the hon. Member for Bridport. With regard to the question of the inspection of works after their completion, being acquainted with such matters, his opinion might have some weight with the committee. He was decidedly of opinion that it was impossible for any engineer to form a just estimate of the solidity of works upon a railway which was already completed. He looked with very great jealousy upon any Government interference in these matters, and unless very ample grounds were shown to warrant it, he considered that it would be quite unnecessary. He conceived that if Government engineers were appointed at all, they ought to have an opportunity of inspecting the works from the very first; and if this bill proceeded upon any other principle, the House would, in fact, be deceiving the public.Mr. Muntz
 must now object to the words "shall not be opened before the passing of this act;" since this amendment, they were entirely unnecessary.Mr. Vernon
927 felt that it would be advisable for his noble Friend to postpone this part of the subject until the report was brought up. He thought, however, that the House would run a great risk of danger if they at once adopted the amendment suggested by the noble Lord. It would be desirable, therefore, that the no-
927Mr. Labouchere
916915knew that this ques-
916915Mr. Labouchere
 could not find anything in the clause to show that the object of it was to enable the Board of Trade to ascertain whether the railways were complete and in working order. It simply provided, that a notice should be given, that on a certain day the railway should be opened. If it were intended that the Board of Trade should send an engineer on that notice to inspect the railway, he should object to the adoption of such a course, because if any such officers were appointed at all, he thought that they ought to be appointed from the very commencement of the undertaking, in order that they might inform themselves of the solidity of all the works, upon which he thought it must be admitted, that they could only form an opinion from an inspection from the first. He agreed with the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. East-hope) that they ought not to lessen the responsibility now imposed on the companies or their engineers. If the Board of Trade were to employ an engineer, he might have some crotchet as to some particular method of constructing a portion of the railway, and until that crotchet was attended to the work could not be opened. The same species of circumstance had before occurred, and he thought, that they should do well to leave the undivided responsibility to the railway companies.Mr. Warburton
925 would appeal to the noble Lord opposite whether there Were not most important omissions in the clause which he wished to propose, as to the ex-
925Mr. Loch
 said, it was quite necessary that railroad companies should give all necessary information and show the expense of their locomotive power. It might be that a railroad was not a monopoly, but it must be treated as a monopoly. In the first place, the locomotive engines must be in the hands of the company, and it was impossible that a carrier on a railroad could compete with the company. There was an essential difference between a railroad and a canal; Parliament limited the tolls on canals, but not the carriage. Whatever law they made, it was virtually a monopoly to the company, and they could charge what they pleased for carriage. With respect to the returns that were referred to in this clause, he thought there could be no objection to their being furnished.Mr. Brotherton
909 thought that these lines should be left as independent and free as possible, and that so far as was consistent with the public safety there should be no interference with the capital and skill employed. He had not had an opportunity of seeing the evidence taken before the committee; and it was only yesterday morning that a large blue book was delivered, marked "railway evidence." It appeared to him, therefore, that they ought to act cautiously, lest they should create evils in the restrictions they were about to propose. The second clause was in the highest degree sweeping; it was scarcely
909Mr. Hume
920 said there appeared to be an impression that this clause involved the whole principle of the bill. Nothing could be more erroneous. There were other clauses of the bill of great importance that were quite unconnected with this first clause. Nor did this bill exceed the recommendation in the report of the commissioners to the extent which had been alleged by the hon. Member for Lambeth. The question raised on the first clause was whether or not there should be a notice to the Government of the
920Mr. Sheil
 urged upon the House to reflect that this question had assumed a different appearance in the course of the debate. They had been assured by the noble Lord that to discuss this clause was to discuss the principle of the bill, and as they had not yet had an opportunity of discussing the principle, they ought to seize upon this which was almost the only occasion that would present itself. The right hon. the Vice-President of the Board of Trade had argued that the fact of giving notice did not involve the principle against which the opponents of this bill were contending. But notice implied interference. If this principle of interference was applied to railroads, what was to prevent its being extended to canal companies and joint-stock banking companies? On the other hand, what evidence had been afforded of existing evils arising from the present mode of managing railways, to justify this measure? He, seeing that in voting against this clause he should be, in fact, voting against the bill, would most cordially give his vote against a most unjust and injurious principle.Mr. Ewart
 was of opinion, that all Government interference was highly impolitic.Mr. Ewart
 objected to the use of these words, because he conceived, that they would give a power to the Board of Trade far beyond that which was necessary. One month's notice was directed to be given, and he thought that it would be quite sufficient for the officers of the Board of Trade to make their inspection during that period. He objected, however, to a power so indefinite as that proposed being placed in their hands.Mr. Ewart
 thought that it was impossible that any person should, within the time allowed by the bill, inspect a line of railway in a manner satisfactory to the public. In the first place, the railway would be in so incomplete a condition as to render a proper inspection impossible, and, secondly, the opportunity afforded would be insufficient for the purpose. If the inspection were to be a valid one, it must take place during the progress of the works. He was not insensible to the safety of the public, but he was far from believing that this inspection, if carried into effect, could afford that security which was necessary.Mr. M. Philips
 was convinced that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) could not carry into effect the subdivision of accounts of monies received for goods and passengers without great inconvenience.Mr. Ward
ex post facto could not see any desire that a railway could have to exempt itself from giving notice, and the only object of the amendment was, to protect some that were about to open from suffering by an ex post factoMr. H. G. Ward
917 did not support the clause on the grounds pointed out by the hon. Member for Bridport, but he conceived that it must be taken in conjunction with the 5th and the 11th sections. The 5th section empowered the Board of Trade to appoint inspectors of railways, and the 11th enabled the same body to direct prosecutions to enforce the provisions of railway acts. The hon. Member for Leicester, following the hon. Member for Bridport, had observed with great truth, that with respect to the sufficiency of any inspection of works, it could afford but little satisfaction. He admitted that, but he contended, that the converse of the proposition did not hold good for the insufficiency of works might be easily discovered. He could conceive many cases in which the acts of Parliament
917Sir James Graham
913 stated, that it was only on the supposition it would afford safety to the public that the clause ought to pass. If they failed to establish that, not only were the amendments unnecessary, but the whole clause ought to be struck out. The noble Viscount (Sandon) wanted to know the advantage or the necessity of notice. He would have had a reply to his question, if they had had the benefit of more of his assistance on the committee which had sat on this subject. His noble Friend said, that there was not a single instance of a railroad being opened prematurely. Now he (Sir J. Graham) believed, on the contrary, that almost without exception every railroad that had been opened had been used before it was properly ready. He would take the clause as providing for the safety of the public. It might be the case, that none of the defences to the line of railway were complete—that the bridges were not quite finished at the time of opening the line, and what might be the result? That heavy weights being drawn over those bridges at a great speed, their fall would take place. It had recently occurred, that on the Preston and Lancaster railway a viaduct had given way, and, although happily no lives were lost, by a most providential circumstance, it was evident that the accident arose from the newness and rawness of the building. He thought, therefore, that it was for the safety of the public that this notice should be given, and that one month was the shortest
913Sir James Graham
 observed, that the hon. Member for Lambeth had stated, that the railway directors had no objection to this clause. He believed if they had not it was because they were of opinion, that it would be practically inoperative, for they felt that the responsibility which attached to their own engineers would be in no wise decreased by the appointment of any officers to superintend their proceedings, such as was proposed. The responsibility with regard to the opening of railways now rested upon the directors, under the guidance of their engineers. If they threw open the works before they were in a condition to be employed with safety to the public, and if the public were injured thereby, he was confident that he should be told by the hon. and learned Attorney-general, that if such a case were brought into a court of justice, it would bring upon them damages proportioned to their offence. If they contemplated, that the state of the railway was to be the subject of conflict at the time at which it was proposed to be opened, they would produce infinitely more evil to the interests of the public than they would do good.Mr. Easthope
 fully concurred in the remark, that it was impossible for an engineer to form a just opinion upon the subject of works which were already completed. He had within his recollection an embankment of eighty feet, covering a bridge, and he should like to know how any person going over that could form any opinion as to the solidity of its construction. He conceived, therefore, that the clause would be totally inoperative as it at present stood.Mr. Easthope
926 understood that the noble Lord wished to procure returns as to the charge of locomotive power on railroads. At any rate, if such returns were required, he was quite sure that nothing of the kind could be afforded with any degree of accuracy. The evidence before the committee showed that great diversity of opinion prevailed on this as well as on other subjects brought before them. It must be obvious that many accidents might occur on a railroad of which the directors could have no cognizance; for when an accident did occur on a railroad it was natural those immediately concerned should be anxious to keep it from the knowledge of their employers. If, in a long line of railroad an accident occurred, and no complaint was made to the directors, they might know
926Mr. Easthope
931, as the House had now determined to begin, was exceedingly
931Mr. Easthope
908907906 reminded the House that there had been no discussion on this bill. He had waited till the last moment, being desirous of seeing whether any other hon.
908907906Mr. Easthope
 thought it desirable to legislate upon this question during the present Session. No one was more adverse to any general interference with the employment of capital than he was; but it was impossible to deny, that the railways were a practical monopoly, and that they had been established by the Legislature giving to them extensive powers over the property of individuals. It was their duty, therefore, to see that by those in possession of the monopoly the public rights were not interfered with. He thought it was unwise to go beyond that, by introducing minute regulations; but it was not unwise to guard the general interests of the public. If, then, legislation was to take place, the sooner the decision was come to the better. They were only keeping parties in uncertainty by any delay. The moment they admitted that there was a fit case for legislation, they ought to determine what it should be. The subject had undergone great investigation in the only place in which it could be thoroughly examined—a select committee; and it was for the interest of the companies themselves that they should be relieved from all doubts and anxiety. Upon these grounds he thought that the noble Lord was authorised in proceeding with his bill; and, without pledging himself to every minute detail, he was of opinion that it would be advantageous now to legislate.Sir Robert Peel
930 said, he could not quite concur with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The hon. Gentleman had asked, whether the House would extend this principle so far as to call for an account of the profits of private companies, or of the Bank of England? Yes, he said, he would call for such an account from the Bank of England, because peculiar privileges were given to it by Act of Parliament. He would not call from any private or joint-stock company, that was under the ordinary operation of the law, for a detail of their profits; but he would do so with the Bank of England for the reason he had stated, and it was on that principle he would assimilate railroads to the Bank, And then it was objected, that they asked for private information. He thought the principle of the new clause that was to be introduced into this bill, or that which ought to be the principle of it, was this—to specify the general objects aimed at in the clause, but to leave the details to the discretion of the public department calling for the returns. Because, if they went too much into detail, two inconveniences might result: they, on the one hand, might be too minute, and establish an inquisition which it was their wish to avoid; and, on
930Sir R. Peel
928 agreed, that it would be better to have periodical returns in a form that should be prescribed, than to allow the Board of Trade the power of calling for returns. But he could not agree that the returns to be made could be too particular; he thought that every
928Viscount Howick
 was decidedly of opinion that the power to be exercised by the Board of Trade should be distinctly defined, and that it ought not to be left to them to say what should be done. He thought that it must be seen that there was no real protection in the notice proposed to be given.Viscount Sandon
912 said, the Privy Council, in the first instance, would have no power to prevent the opening of a railroad after the notice; but then the noble Lord said, that they had virtually a power over the parties managing the railroad, because no one would travel on the line after such a remonstrance had been given. What opportunity, however, would they have of judging? They might send an inspector, they were not compellable, but suppose they did send one, they all knew that with a railroad the last month was the most important of all; a month before the opening the bridges were imperfect, the rails were not all laid down, the fences were not put up, the gates that protected the side roads were not made, in short, in such a condition was it that it was totally unfit for the public. He said, then, that the inspector would go his rounds, he would come away with a hostile impression as to the opening, he would say that in his opinion the road ought not to be opened, and if the Privy Council, acting upon that, should issue their remonstrance, they would injure materially the whole property of the proprietors, and would not promote the interests of the public, because it would be issued after an imperfect instruction. He said, therefore, that this clause was useless on the one hand to the interests of the public, which would not be provided for when the inspectors were unable to come to a right conclusion; and, on the other hand, it would give to the Privy Council a dangerous power of condemnation. Had a single instance yet been quoted of a railroad having been opened when it was in a condition unfit for the interests of the public? He did not believe that there had been one instance. The other powers were so arbitrary, that there was every possible objection to them. He himself
912Viscount Sandon
 said, perhaps he might now be indulged in stating, that he had yesterday declined giving an answer publicly to that question which had been put to him, because he did not think that any hon. Member had a right to put the question, having previously stated that he did not intend to move the same question on which he had been defeated before. He had stated privately to a noble Lord his motive for postponing the third reading, and would have done so to any hon. Member who asked him.Sir R. Inglis
 after the recommendations which had proceeded from such high authority, he hoped that some mode would be adopted without the necessity of any further proceedings on the part of the Legislature to allow this party to go free; but if there should be no power to effect that object without the aid of an Act of Parliament, he trusted that the noble Lord would proceed without any hesitation to legislate on the subject.Mr. Aglionby
 thought this charge required explanation; it was an enormous sum for one year's expenditure in carrying into execution one act of Parliament.Mr. Goulburn
971 assured the right hon. Gentleman that the charge had excited the attention of the Treasury, but it com-
971Mr. R. Gordon
 was surprised at the amount of the charge for conveyances, since every one knew that the principal expenses of a conveyance were the charge for drawing and the cost of the stamp. Now, a short form of conveyance, consisting of only ten lines, was prescribed and set out in the act, and no stamp duty was payable.Mr. Goulburn
l. thought he could explain the amount of the charge. The river ran by the property of Lord Monteagle, and his solicitor, Mr. Barrington, was the solicitor employed by the commission. The ordinary routine of business was set aside, and instead of Mr. Stewart, the solicitor of the Board of Works, being employed, a new office was created for Mr. Spring Rice's attorney, to whom the committee was now asked to vote this sum of 11,300l.Mr. E. Tennent
 said, he had never heard a more unjustifiable attack made upon parties who were not present to defend themselves. He was surprised that an hon. Member in an assembly of gentlemen should suffer himself to be so far carried away. He begged to give a distinct contradiction to the inference which the hon. Member had drawn. Mr. Barrington was employed in the original inquiry, and when the work was undertaken he was continued in the performance of the services which were then required. The same expenses were paid to Mr. Barrington as would have been paid to the solicitor to the Board of Works, and no saving would have been effected by employing the latter. No hon. Member who had had any experience in canal or railway companies would consider the charges unreasonable.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l said, that in the whole of this large bill of costs the money out of pocket did not exceed 250l.lMr. E. Tennent
972 said, that the reason
972Viscount Morpeth
 considered the whole of this proceeding a downright humbugging job. He thought that the country had great reason to complain of the manner in which the business of Parliament was hurried over at this period of the session, and especially he thought there was reason to complain of the manner in which the miscellaneous estimates were disposed of; for his part, if no one more competent to the task than he was, took up the subject, he should in a future session move that the miscellaneous estimates be referred to a select committee.Colonel Sibthorp
 observed, that Mr. Stewart's charges would have been equally high with those of Mr. Barrington, had the former gentleman been employed in preference to the latter. The charge as it now stood was a reduced charge, and the expenses had certainly been estimated on the most economical scale. There could be no doubt that Mr. Stewart considered the duties connected with the river Shannon to be quite distinct from his duties as solicitor to the Board of Works, for he came to this country and made interest to obtain the appointment, which had eventually been given to Mr. Barrington, which he certainly would not have done if he had not thought that he was to receive a separate remuneration for the business connected with the Shannon.Mr. M. O'Ferrall
 said, that if the solicitor to the Board of Works received a salary from the state, the public were entitled to the whole of his time, and that gentleman was bound to render all the service in his power to the Government. If the legal business of the Board of Works were conducted like that of the Stamp-office, for example, the solicitor would not be entitled to charge costs as between attorney and client.Sir R. Peel
 agreed with the right hon. Baronet that the Government in employing a public officer did purchase the whole of his time; but the improvement of the Shannon had been intrusted to a body of commissioners quite distinct from the Board of Works.Viscount Morpeth
973 hoped, that as these expenses had been actually incurred, and
973Viscount Morpeth
977 complained of the very limited benefit to be derived from this grant to that religious part of the community with whom he was more immediately connected. There were upwards of 100,000 poor Irish belonging to the Roman Catholic religion within this metropolis who were entirely destitute of the means of education. These were neglected in their youth, and yet it was complained of in the public prints that the gaols were crowded with Irish adults, who were said most unjustly to participate in this grant. But the natural consequence of neglecting youth was to fill the gaols. What was the resolution which had been come to by the Middlesex magistrates, as it appears in the prints of the present day? In the last Session, he had proposed a measure to enable the Catholic clergy to receive a salary as chaplains of gaols, but it was objected to in another place. A memorial had been since presented to the Home Department, showing that nearly one-third of the persons in the metropolitan gaols, were of the Roman Catholic religion, and praying that a minister might be appointed for those prisoners that were subjected to restrictions for the purpose of reformation. The same reason that had induced them to refuse the benefit of education to these unfortunate men in their infancy, induced them also to refuse religious instruction to those in prison. If there was any remnant of good in these individuals, it was their adherence to the faith of their ancestors; and then, instead of availing themselves of the opportunity afforded of fostering this remnant of good, the first thing they made them do was to apostatize from their religion, and then they were surprised that they returned to society the same miserable individuals as they entered the gaols. They knew that
977Mr. Langdale
976 said, that the few observations made by the right hon. Gentleman, rather applied to the plan of last year. He had spoken of it as a plan to regulate the whole education of the country. It certainly was not such. If it were, he should agree with him that it would be matter for legislation rather than for a vote in a committee of supply. The present plan was based on this—that they should take care that those schools to which the public money was given, were under proper inspection. Objections having been made to the former schemes proposed, it had been finally arranged, that no person should be appointed an inspector without the approbation of the Archbishop of Canterbury, or the concur-
976Lord John Russell
960Morning Post.: In the few words which he was about to say, was without the advantage enjoyed by the hon. Gentleman—that of having read the 960Morning Post.Lord John Russell
 said, that the appointment of inspectors with the concurrence of the archbishops, related entirely to such schools as stated themselves to be in communion with the Church of England. There would be other inspectors appointed for other schools, but at the same time, if the inspectors appointed for the Church schools should visit districts in which there shall be other schools, and if the managers of the schools should not object, he could see no reason why the inspectors of the Church schools should not inspect the others.Lord J. Russell
949 had certainly no more wish than the hon. Baronet to enter into the general question; but with respect to the question immediately before the House, he thought it was a decisive answer to the motion for recommending the case of John Thorogood to the merciful consideration of the Crown, to state that it was not in the power of the Crown to discharge that individual from imprisonment. Mr. Thorogood was not confined within a prison from which any interposition on the part of the Crown could remove him. Therefore he considered it was not proper for the House to entertain the motion that had been made. He believed his hon. Friend was quite right in saying likewise that the Bishop of London, in whose court the proceedings against John Thorogood took place, had nothing to do with the continuance of his imprisonment. At the same time, as the question had been brought before the House, he would say that he believed there were some parties in authority in the parish to which this sum was due as a portion of the church-rates, who could interfere to procure the discharge of John Thorogood; and for himself he must say he thought those parties would act very wisely if they were so to interfere. He did not know whether those who agreed with him in that sentiment would concur with him in the grounds on which he rested it. He thought that those persons who, from a conscientious feeling, sought to make the laws respected by enforcing the punishment of imprisonment against those who violated the laws, did no good whatever in the way of maintaining a respect for the law when they acted not in accordance with the general feeling of the community. Another ground upon which he thought that it would be perfectly safe and highly expedient to put an end to the imprisonment of John Thorogood, was, that he considered that this poor man, who no doubt had been actuated by a very conscientious feeling, had been entirely mistaken in the notion of the sympathy which his sufferings had created. He had no doubt that those who acted with this poor person thought that if he consented to remain in prison for a certain
949Lord John Russell
 said, he thought it most desirable that those bills which had originated in the House of Commons should be sent up to the House of Lords, before they took into consideration bills that had come down from the other House. He therefore did not intend to proceed with the Administration of Justice Bill till next week.Lord John Russell
952 said, it appeared to him, that the learned Gentleman who had just sat down was wrong as to the state of the law. It was rather difficult for him to offer a legal opinion against that of a judge of an ecclesiastical court, but in the case which the learned Gentleman referred to be had paid the rate before the party was sent to prison. John Thorogood, however, had been some time in prison, and he went there under circumstances which would prevent his discharge upon payment of the original sum. If the payment would have discharged him there would be ten thousand persons who would be ready to make it, and they could do nothing that would be more serviceable to the Church, by preserving it from public odium, because
952Mr. Baines
978 said, they had heard much of Church destitution, but of Catholic destitution they had heard little, and, considering the condition of a large part of the population, he thought that they ought to have heard much more. There was one question, however, which he wished to ask before the vote was agreed to, and it was—whether the inspectors of schools, over whose appointment the archbishops were to have a veto, were to inspect the schools conducted by religious
978Mr. Baines
950 was very much disposed to agree in the observations of the noble Lord. He could confirm what the noble Lord had said as to the Bishop of London having nothing to do with this case, and he thought that if the parish should see no chance of the repetition of the offence, they could not do a more wise or a more popular act than to take the advice of the noble Lord, and release Mr. Thorogood from prison. He had been always opposed to a continued confinement for a contempt of court. He had himself introduced a bill to relieve persons in prison for contempt of the Court of Chancery, which had passed into an act, and which had been found to work well. He thought that there could be no difficulty in extending, as far as they were applicable, the provisions of the Chancery Court to the other courts, so that the judges might have the power in all proper cases to discharge a person in the situation of the prisoner. In such a case as the present, for instance, he would give a power to the Bishop of London, as the judge, a power to release. He conceived that John Thorogood had not, as a matter of right, a claim to be discharged, because it had been shown by
950Sir E. Sugden
 said, that this was an unusual course to take with respect to so important a bill. He should certainly oppose the passing of the bill this Session.Sir E. Sugden
 begged to ask the noble Lord opposite when he intended to proceed with this important bill for the administration of justice? He must say, that if the bill should be pressed through the House, at that late period of the Session, he should feel it his duty to oppose it.Sir E. Sugden
 begged to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whether the treaty with France upon the subject of our fisheries had been definitively agreed to?Mr. Darby
967l.l.l.966l.965coup de main?964130
13068Malta and Marseilles
68Malta and Marseillesper month62Malta and AlexandriaBetween
per month62Malta and AlexandriaBetween
130
13068Malta and Marseilles
68Malta and Marseillesper month62Malta and AlexandriaBetween
per month62Malta and AlexandriaBetween49
496Malta and Corfu
6Malta and Corfu24Malta and Alexandria
24Malta and Alexandriamonthly.19Gibraltar and MaltaBetween
monthly.19Gibraltar and MaltaBetween
49
496Malta and Corfu
6Malta and Corfu24Malta and Alexandria
24Malta and Alexandriamonthly.19Gibraltar and MaltaBetween
monthly.19Gibraltar and MaltaBetween963962961s.l.l.l.l.l.l.: This vote, to woich I beg to call the attention of the House, is one of 21,600967l.l.l.966l.965coup de main?964130
13068Malta and Marseilles
68Malta and Marseillesper month62Malta and AlexandriaBetween
per month62Malta and AlexandriaBetween
130
13068Malta and Marseilles
68Malta and Marseillesper month62Malta and AlexandriaBetween
per month62Malta and AlexandriaBetween49
496Malta and Corfu
6Malta and Corfu24Malta and Alexandria
24Malta and Alexandriamonthly.19Gibraltar and MaltaBetween
monthly.19Gibraltar and MaltaBetween
49
496Malta and Corfu
6Malta and Corfu24Malta and Alexandria
24Malta and Alexandriamonthly.19Gibraltar and MaltaBetween
monthly.19Gibraltar and MaltaBetween963962961s.l.l.l.l.l.l.Colonel Dawson Damer
d.s.d.s.951 knew nothing of the case of Baines, which had been mentioned by the hon. Member for Finsbury; but he presumed that the party was before the court, that the court came to a decision, and that the party was committed upon that decision of" the court; but the case of John Thorogood had never been before the court at all, the party having refused to appear. On the general question he concurred very much in the observations that had fallen from the noble Lord; but when the hon. Member for Middlesex talked of the sympathy which had been
d.s.d.s.951Mr. H. Vernon
938 begged to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. When he had the honour of holding the seals of the Home Department, it happened that the office of Dean of the Chapel Royal of Scotland and King's Chaplain was vacant. He made inquiry, with a view to ascertain who in Scotland was the most eminent person and the best qualified for the situation, in order that he might submit the name to his late Majesty. He found that some communication had already been held by his predecessor with Dr. Macgill, an eminent divine, and he had reason to believe that his predecessor, from the good opinion which he in common with all acquainted with his merits entertained of Dr. Macgill, intended to have recommended him to his Majesty. Under these circumstances, and having convinced himself of the fitness of Dr. Macgill, he submitted his name to his Majesty, and Dr. Macgill received the appointment, in the usual form, of one of his Majesty's chaplains for Scotland, upon which he was appointed Dean of the Chapel Royal. The Treasury, however, refused to pay Dr. Macgill a salary under the appointment, and Dr. Macgill applied to him, he being the individual that recommended that rev. gentleman to the Crown. On receiving this intimation, he addressed a letter to the First Lord of the Treasury, pointing out the circumstances of the case, but although he had again written subsequently, that noble Lord, for some reason or other, had not thought fit to return a reply; and he was, therefore, under the necessity of troubling the right hon. Gentleman for some explanation. He found that there was no irregularity in the form of the appointment, and he was utterly ignorant of the grounds upon which the Treasury had thought fit to withhold Dr. Macgill's salary. That salary had been confirmed by a decision of the committee that sat upon the civil charges of
938Mr. Goulburn
 did not consider the answer of the right hon. Gentleman at all satisfactory. The imperfect recollection of an unknown debate, of which there was no record, was set up against the recommendation of a committee, and against uniform practice.Mr. Goulburn
 said, the right hon. Gentleman appeared to have misunderstood the hon. Gentleman, who did not mean that Government should interfere with commercial communications, but he thought that armed steamers might be made the means, in the event of a war arising, of affording a ready armament, and enabling us to compete in this respect with other nations. When the right hon. Gentleman spoke of the availability of the steamers engaged in the execution of the contract, it would be desirable to ascertain whether that would be an economical mode in case of an emergency. Would it be economical to make purchase in such case of vessels not built for warlike operations? What plan had been resorted to at the commencement of the late war when there happened to be a deficiency? Ships were then purchased, which, after having considerable sums expended upon fitting them out, were afterwards found to be inefficient. It was the bounden duty of those who had the administration of the naval department to show that an available force was ready in the event of an unexpected breaking out of war, and to prove that the country, in such an event, had an adequate means of defence corresponding with the naval force of the enemy.—Vote agreed to.Mr. Goulburn
974 wished to know the exact proportion of this expense to be borne
974Mr. Goulburn
 said, that after the discussion which this vote underwent on a former occasion, he felt it impossible to let it pass without making one or two observations. He admitted that by the new arrangements made known by the minute in council recently laid before the House, particularly with respect to the inspection of schools, there had been, since the last discussion, the greatest possible improvement made. So also with respect to another point—namely, the necessity of submitting to Parliament cases which might be deemed extraordinary, in which the pecuniary assistance was not to be proportioned to the contribution made by the party applying for the assistance, was also a great improvement, and removed many of the objections he had formerly entertained against the vote. At the same time, although he felt that the system was so altered as to render it possible for him to give his willing acquiescence to the grant, he still retained those objections he formerly expressed as to confiding the management and superintendence of the whole education of the people to a lay commission, composed upon the principle of recommendations by the Government. He felt that on a question involving the interests of all classes it would have been expedient and more advisable that it should have been regulated rather by an act of the Legislature, than by a discretion vested in a board, constituted as that was by which this pecuniary grant was to be administered.Mr. Goulburn
 wished to know whether there was any report made on the subject; for, if the right hon. Gentleman were not in the House, who was to give any account of it?Mr. Hume
959l.l.l. could not think, that keeping up a civil war in Syria, was strengthening the Turkish empire, and he distinctly charged the British Government with having prevented the conclusion of peace on satisfactory terms. Within the last two months, the interference of our authorities at Constantinople had prevented an amicable settlement, and such measures would make Turkey dependent upon Russia. The noble Lord had charged a portion of the deficiency in the revenue to the operation of what the noble Lord was pleased to call his postage plan, but he begged to remind the noble Lord, that notwithstanding the deficiency which he admitted to have arisen from the new Post-office regulations, the revenue of the present year had amounted to 47,883959l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 doubted what the right hon. Baronet said, on the score of economy; because when the estimates were brought forward, he was not aware of any objection being made to them.Mr. Hume
 wished to know under whose taste and judgment these pictures were bought? He had heard very severe critiques made on the pictures that were last purchased.Mr. Hume
 said it was very satisfactory to have heard the speeches of the noble Lord on that side of the House, and of the right hon. Gentleman on the other side. It was evident in what direction the feelings of the House went. Because, while the noble Lord contended that the party was legally confined, he could not approve of the length of time of the imprisonment. After the very liberal sentiments which had been expressed, he had altered the opinion which he had originally formed as to the propriety of going to a division, and he would now recommend his hon. Friend to withdraw the motion. They had been informed that her Majesty had not the power to give relief in this case; but he knew that about eighteen years ago he brought forward the case of parties who were in prison for contempt of court, that in the end relief was given. Until the right hon. Gentleman opposite brought forward his bill, there was, he believed, no legal method of giving a discharge; the public were indebted to the right hon. Gentleman for the remedy he had carried, and he hoped that the method which the right hon. Gentleman had recommended for getting rid of the difficulties in the case of Thorogood would be adopted.Mr. Hume
 had taken some trouble in this matter, having written to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, reminding him that the Sinecure Committee had decided that no salary should be attached to this office. He thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer deserved the thanks of the House and the country for his conduct.Mr. Hume
955 rose to object to the vote, and he did so because he did not think that any increase of the navy was necessary, and because he was of opinion that our navy was employed for purposes undeserving the character of the British empire. It had been stated, that this country had despatched a fleet to Syria to encourage and foment the insurrectionary feelings which had already been excited there, and he should like to hear whether the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs could afford any satisfactory explanation upon the subject. He conceived, that in truth, Great Britain was now the power which, by its proceedings) prevented Mehemet Ali from obtaining peace with the Porte. He looked with great jealousy to the insidious attacks
955Mr. Hume
 did not think, that any grounds had been stated which could authorize the House in resisting the vote proposed; but he did wish that the noble Lord had responded more satisfactorily to the perhaps irregular demand made upon him by the hon. Member for Kilkenny. He wished that the noble Lord had been able to assure the House that all the Five Powers were now in a position of cordial co-operation. He could not but express his most earnest hope, that no policy of the noble Lord would tend to promote war in the East. He agreed, however, that in the midst of negotiations of this kind, it would not be proper for the noble Lord to enter into any further explanation than that which he had given.Mr. Milnes
 proposed a vote of 2,000 extra men for the sea service for the ensuing ten months.Mr. M. O'Ferrall
 said, the pictures that were last bought were purchased at a public sale, on the recommendation of the trustees of the National Gallery.Mr. R. Gordon
 defended it as necessary, and as being consistent with the promises of the Government.Mr. Robert Steuart
l.939 happened to be in office at the time this question was discussed, and his recollection of it was this:—Very shortly after coming into office, the question was raised as to the salaries of the chaplains in Scotland, there being at that time four vacancies. The warrant appointing Dr. Macgill had been sent to the
l.939Mr. R. Steuart
d.s."That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she would be graciously pleased to take into her Majesty's merciful consideration the case of Mr. John Thorogood, a Protestant Dissenter, confined in her Majesty's county gaol of Essex, since the 16th day of January, 1839, for neglecting to appear in the Consistorial Court of the Bishop of London for the non-payment of 5d.s.946"JOHN THOROGOOD."Your humble servant,"And believe me to remain,"This, Sir, is as near as possible what was said. I have distinguished what Sir Robert said by putting a dash under it, that you might easier refer to it. I hope you will not consider me troublesome; but believe I am greatly indebted to you for your kind exertions on my behalf,s."There are rooms empty in the front of the gaol. I told Sir Robert I had written to the Secretary of State that I might be allowed to occupy one, but was refused by the magistrate, although I believe Lord J. Russell wished it. I believe he said, 'Very likely,' but it was to that effect: and Sir, the high sheriff visited me yesterday, when I made the same complaints to him, and being locked up alone every night from nine until six o'clock asked him to grant me the use of a room unoccupied, when Mr. Neal, the gaoler said, yes, if I would pay 12s.s.l.d.s.945l.s.d.s.944Dear Sir—I thought I would take the liberty of sending you word what passed between Sir It. Inglis and myself on his visit to me, as probably he may refer to it on your motion for the 21st. He came in with the turnkey, who knocked at my room door. I said 'Walk in.' They then walked in. Sir Robert commenced by saying, 'I am no friend of yours, but I hope I am no enemy.' I then said, 'I hope not, I beg you will be seated.' He saw a bird in the room, and said, 'Oh, this is your bird.' I said, 'Yes, Sir.' He then said, 'How is the state of your health? I replied, 'Not very good,' for I had got rheumatism down the whole of my left side, and I felt a numbness, which I thought appeared like paralysis, and I had suffered dreadfully in my head, from rheumatism. He said, 'Oh, they are quite different complaints.' I said, 'I must beg to differ, for I thought they both proceeded from stagnation of blood, pro-
s.l.d.s.945l.s.d.s.944JulyChelmsford Gaol"JulyChelmsford Gaolincognito943"SUNDERLAND.""Gentlemen—The King being informed that some goods belonging to John Wales, and other Quakers of Leeds, which were seized and taken from them upon the account of their religious worship, do remain unsold in the hands of John Todd, who was constable at the time of the seizure, or in the hands of some other persons: and his Majesty's intention being, that all his subjects shall receive the full benefit of his declaration for liberty of conscience, his Majesty commands me to signify to you his pleasure, that you cause the goods belonging to the said John Wales, and all other Quakers of Leeds, which were heretofore seized upon the account of religious worship, and are unsold, in whose hands so ever they remain, to be forthwith restored to the respective owners without any charge.—I am, gentlemen, your affectionate friend and servant,"Whitehall, Dec. 14,1687.942"But it being evident, by the sad experience of twelve years, that there is very little fruit of all those forcible courses, we think ourselves obliged to make use of that supreme power in ecclesiastical matters, which is not only inherent in us, but hath been declared and recognised to be so by several statutes and Acts of Parliament. We do, in the next place, declare our will and pleasure to be, that the execution of all, and all manner of penal laws in matters ecclesiastical, against whatsoever sort of non-conformists, or recusants, be immediately suspended, and they are hereby suspended. And all judges, sheriffs, justices of the peace, &c, are to take notice of it, and pay due obedience thereunto."l.d.s.941940d.s."That it appears by certain papers laid before this House,' that John Thorogood, a Protestant Dissenter, has been confined in her Majesty's county gaol of Essex, since the 16th day of January last, for neglecting to appear in the Consistorial Court of the Bishop of London, for the non-payment of 5940d.s. begged most respectfully to call the attention of the House to the resolution which was passed in the last Session of Parliament. It was this:—
d.s."That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she would be graciously pleased to take into her Majesty's merciful consideration the case of Mr. John Thorogood, a Protestant Dissenter, confined in her Majesty's county gaol of Essex, since the 16th day of January, 1839, for neglecting to appear in the Consistorial Court of the Bishop of London for the non-payment of 5d.s.946"JOHN THOROGOOD."Your humble servant,"And believe me to remain,"This, Sir, is as near as possible what was said. I have distinguished what Sir Robert said by putting a dash under it, that you might easier refer to it. I hope you will not consider me troublesome; but believe I am greatly indebted to you for your kind exertions on my behalf,s."There are rooms empty in the front of the gaol. I told Sir Robert I had written to the Secretary of State that I might be allowed to occupy one, but was refused by the magistrate, although I believe Lord J. Russell wished it. I believe he said, 'Very likely,' but it was to that effect: and Sir, the high sheriff visited me yesterday, when I made the same complaints to him, and being locked up alone every night from nine until six o'clock asked him to grant me the use of a room unoccupied, when Mr. Neal, the gaoler said, yes, if I would pay 12s.s.l.d.s.945l.s.d.s.944Dear Sir—I thought I would take the liberty of sending you word what passed between Sir It. Inglis and myself on his visit to me, as probably he may refer to it on your motion for the 21st. He came in with the turnkey, who knocked at my room door. I said 'Walk in.' They then walked in. Sir Robert commenced by saying, 'I am no friend of yours, but I hope I am no enemy.' I then said, 'I hope not, I beg you will be seated.' He saw a bird in the room, and said, 'Oh, this is your bird.' I said, 'Yes, Sir.' He then said, 'How is the state of your health? I replied, 'Not very good,' for I had got rheumatism down the whole of my left side, and I felt a numbness, which I thought appeared like paralysis, and I had suffered dreadfully in my head, from rheumatism. He said, 'Oh, they are quite different complaints.' I said, 'I must beg to differ, for I thought they both proceeded from stagnation of blood, pro-
s.l.d.s.945l.s.d.s.944JulyChelmsford Gaol"JulyChelmsford Gaolincognito943"SUNDERLAND.""Gentlemen—The King being informed that some goods belonging to John Wales, and other Quakers of Leeds, which were seized and taken from them upon the account of their religious worship, do remain unsold in the hands of John Todd, who was constable at the time of the seizure, or in the hands of some other persons: and his Majesty's intention being, that all his subjects shall receive the full benefit of his declaration for liberty of conscience, his Majesty commands me to signify to you his pleasure, that you cause the goods belonging to the said John Wales, and all other Quakers of Leeds, which were heretofore seized upon the account of religious worship, and are unsold, in whose hands so ever they remain, to be forthwith restored to the respective owners without any charge.—I am, gentlemen, your affectionate friend and servant,"Whitehall, Dec. 14,1687.942"But it being evident, by the sad experience of twelve years, that there is very little fruit of all those forcible courses, we think ourselves obliged to make use of that supreme power in ecclesiastical matters, which is not only inherent in us, but hath been declared and recognised to be so by several statutes and Acts of Parliament. We do, in the next place, declare our will and pleasure to be, that the execution of all, and all manner of penal laws in matters ecclesiastical, against whatsoever sort of non-conformists, or recusants, be immediately suspended, and they are hereby suspended. And all judges, sheriffs, justices of the peace, &c, are to take notice of it, and pay due obedience thereunto."l.d.s.941940d.s."That it appears by certain papers laid before this House,' that John Thorogood, a Protestant Dissenter, has been confined in her Majesty's county gaol of Essex, since the 16th day of January last, for neglecting to appear in the Consistorial Court of the Bishop of London, for the non-payment of 5940d.s.Mr. T. Duncombe
 said, that in consequence of the opinions which had been expressed by the right hon. Baronet opposite, and other hon. Members of the House, he thought that he should best attain the object which he had in view by requesting permission of the House to withdraw his motion.Mr. T. Duncombe
 objected to the grant.Mr. W. D. Gillon
 wished the right hon. Baronet and his colleagues would direct their attention to the exterior of the building of the National Gallery, for certainly it was not satisfactory to the public taste.Sir De L. Evans
 said, the arrangement which had been made with the East India Company was, that this country should pay the extra expenses of the expedition. A confidential communication had been received by the East India Company from Lord Auckland, which was the basis of his estimate. Another estimate was forwarded to him by the East India Company, which came very nearly to that of Lord Auckland. But such estimates must necessarily on all occasions be loose. With respect to tonnage, it was impossible for him to do more than state the expense already incurred, and the rate at which it was estimated to be carried on. The estimate had been sent over to this country by Lord Auckland.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
968 said, the question raised by the hon. Member did not relate to practical details, but to great principles, whether the course of policy which this Government had always pursued, of employing vessels by contract, should be continued, or whether it should do as the French Government did, take the communication into its own hands. The policy of England had always been entirely different from that of France in this respect. He was not there to criticise the policy pursued by other countries, but to defend the principle we had adopted—that it was not for this Government to occupy the lines of communication by armed steamers, but rather to encourage and assist the private enterprise of the country—to aid it, but not to interfere with it. And if the time should come when vessels which were employed in peace were required for war, the country would find, that by having encouraged commercial enterprise and private speculation, a sufficient supply of steamers would be obtained when occasion occurred. That he believed to be the real policy of England, and the reason why a different policy was pursued in France might be, that the Government was forced to do what it could not find private companies able or willing to do. With respect to the Mediterranean, all these objects were matters of contract; but the Mediterranean was not the whole world; it was a small space, and not of such great importance. All that was required was, that there should be a certain amount of communication for India and the Levant, and we had not thought it necessary to employ our energies there. But you must look at the relative importance of different objects. If England did not employ her energies there, look at other parts of the world—the communication with India and North America, the great lines of communication with the West Indies and the western coast of America; these were more important points than the small ports of the Mediterranean, and these great lines of communication had not been neglected by the Government. He was bound to tell the hon. Gentleman, that there were much greater lines and objects than those of the Mediterranean. The communication with the Brazils was of far greater importance than the convenience of gen-
968The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that a discussion took place in that House, during which it was stated that salary should not be withdrawn from the parties who then held office, but that in case of any future appointment, no salary should attach to the office. That discussion took place before Dr. Macgill's appointment, and when that rev. gentleman applied for his salary, the answer was that no salary attached to the office.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thanked the right hon. Gentleman for having communicated his intention of putting this question. There was nothing irregular in the form of this appointment, and no objection whatever was made to the rev. gentleman. The case stood thus: Subsequently to the Civil-list Committee, some discussion took place in that House, in which it was stated that it was the intention of the Government, that on future appointments to this office no salary should be given. In accordance with that declaration, he understood that the Treasury had refused payment of salary, the appointment being one unaccompanied with duties, to which, consequently, no salary was attached. He had not been able to refer to the particular debate on which such a declaration had been made.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 called the attention of Government to the expediency of allowing the seamen who had pensions to retain them while in service.Captain Pechell
l. understood that shipping to the extent of 3,500 tons had been taken up from Bengal, and 3,149 tons from Madras, which would probably cost about 100,000l.Sir J. Graham
 rose to make but one single explanation. The hon. Member had referred for a precedent for his motion to the time of the Stuarts, and said, that he wondered there was not as great liberty in the time of Victoria as in the days of James 1st and of Charles 2nd He believed, that the release from the imprisonment was a gross violation of the law, by the exercise of the dispensing power of the Crown. It was one of the acts that brought about the Revolution; and it was specifically declared to be illegal by the Bill of Rights. By passing the hon. Member's motion, the House of Commons would be addressing the Crown to violate the law.The Attorney-general
 said the estimate, which was certainly a very rough one, had been sent home by the Governor-general of India, and certain amount of tonnage had been taken up for the conveyance of troops, and the question was how much money the country should be asked to pay in the present year. There had been some little difficulty upon that point; but whatever deficiency there might be, he hoped there would be no difficulty in making it up when the accounts should be finally laid before Parliament. The Governor-general was to keep a separate account of every extra charge. That account was not to extend to the pay of the Queen's troops, nor to ordinary pay of the troops belonging to the East India Company, but only to the expenses incurred by the extra services arising out of this expedition. The Governor-general had sent over the present estimate in compliance with orders sent to him in October last, and though it was a rough one, he believed that it would be found, upon the whole, a fair one.Sir J. Hobhouse
948947 took the liberty of rising early, in order that those hon. Members who had heard the statement of the hon. Member for Finsbury, might also hear his statement?
948947Sir B. Inglis
 was in office when the appointment of the reverend gentleman was made. and he did think that after the recommendation of the Civil-list Committee, that reverend gentleman had everything on his side. He had the favour of his Majesty and the recommendation of a committee of the House of Commons, and considering that the appointment was one made by a deceased monarch, he thought it was bad taste to refuse the salary.Sir R. Peel
954953 had seen so much inconvenience arise from a misunderstanding as to what was called the general feeling of the House, that he was anxious to express his opinion of what the general feeling of the House upon this point was. When the hon. Member for Leeds said, that he hoped there would be an end to all imprisonments for the non-payment of
954953Sir Robert Peel
l.l. said, he quite agreed with the gallant Officer that the building, standing in the situation it did, was not very creditable. When the estimates for it were brought forward, the House was in an economical fit, and the first sum voted was 40,000l.l.Sir R. Peel
 said, these things were all matters of record, and he would ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite whether these matters did not pass between the trustees and the Treasury. There were some arrangements now going on; and he really hoped the hon. Gentleman would not oblige any premature disclosures to be made.Sir R. Peel
970 said, if the hon. Gentleman would state what the pictures were, he had no doubt he could give him a satisfactory explanation. He had no objection whatever to these questions being put; on the contrary, he thought they tended to public advantage. But let them take the case of the pictures they had just bought. In this case, Sir Simon Clark's pictures were advertised for sale. The trustees of the National Gallery met and considered whether they should advise the purchase of any of them. They had not a shilling at their disposal, and they therefore were obliged to apply to the Treasury for permission to purchase certain of the pictures. The collection was attended by circumstances that were peculiar, as it was made during the French revolution. As to the condition of the pictures, the trustees had the opportunity of referring to a person of high authority—he meant Mr. Seymour, the secretary of the National Gallery. There were in the collection two Murillos which were perfectly well known to connoisseurs and artists, and the trustees advised the Treasury to make a certain offer for them. But they did not ask much from the Treasury, for all they asked to be allowed to purchase out of the whole collection were three pictures, two being the Murillos he had mentioned, and the third a Guido—all works of very great excellence, and such as the trustees thought it desirable to procure for the National Gallery. For one of the Murillos, a picture known by the name of "The Good Shepherd," they proposed to offer 2,500 guineas. It was purchased, however, by Messrs. Rothschild for 3,000 guineas. For the other Murillo they also proposed to offer 2,500 guineas, but Lord Ashburton, one of the trustees, purchased it at 2,000 guineas for his own private collection. Finding, however, there was some misapprehension on the subject, he very handsomely ceded it to the National Gallery at the price he had given for it. For the Guido they gave only 410 guineas,
970Sir R. Peel
958957956 felt bound to say, that nothing could be more frank and open than the declaration by the hon. Member of the difference of opinion which existed between them upon this subject, because the hon. Member, both in public and private, had for very many months past expressed his opinion that our foreign policy was exceedingly injurious to the interests of the country; and had endeavoured to impress upon him strongly the expediency of adopting a
958957956Viscount Palmerston
937 feared he had not been sufficiently understood on a former occasion. The regulations to be carried into execution by an Order in Council were not regulations applicable to the space between three miles of the shore on either side. That space was by the treaty preserved to each party, and each party would therefore exercise its own jurisdiction within that space. The regulations, to give effect to which, if they should be made, an Act of Parliament was required, were to be prepared by commissioners, one on the part of France, and one on the part of England, for the guidance of the fishermen of the two countries when they met on that part of the sea which was beyond the three miles on either side, and which was the highway of all nations. The House would perceive that, except by mutual consent, no regulations could be made binding upon the fishermen of the two countries when they met in that situation; but as it often happened that he long-line nets and trawl nets of the one party interfered with the other, each country had, on its own authority, made regulations for the guidance of its own fishermen, but the consent of both parties was necessary to apply such regulations to the fishermen of the two countries. Within the prescribed distance from shore, England would apply its own regulations to its own fishermen, and France would apply the regulations of its own Government to its own fishermen, but beyond the three miles he hoped that the commissioners would be able to frame such regulations as would best protect the
937Viscount Palmerston
 wished to express his own satisfaction, and he believed the general and united feeling of every religious society, at the arrangement which had been made between the noble Lord and the head of the Church. He was only too gratified at being able to state the united feeling of the committee of the National Society, that the heads of the Church, in whose hands, without reserve, they had placed the arrangement, should have made an arrangement which to their minds was so satisfactory. He was sure that they were all imbued with one common object.Viscount Sandon
 opposed the bill, which he conceived would inflict great oppression on the poor man who could not afford to keep a horse or a donkey.Mr. Ewart
 said, he did not intend to press the bill this Session, but observed that the House had already sanctioned its principle.Mr. East
 said, the bill might be expedient for the crowded streets of the metropolis as an act of humanity, not to the Canine, but the human race, but he doubted the propriety of applying it to the rural districts.Mr. Warburton
 said, he was under the apprehension that such a power did exist somewhere, and this arose from what he understood to have fallen from his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-general. He had thought that some of the provisions of an act passed with respect to cases of contempt of the Court of Chancery might be made applicable to the present Case.Lord J. Russell
 begged to put one fact upon record, that the sugar monopolists were inflicting a great injury, not only upon the people of England, but upon the landowners, because, from the monopoly price of sugar, the manufacturers found it impossible to make preserves of the fruit, which was so plentiful.Mr. Hawes
 said the prosperity of the fruitgrower had been already swept away by the repeal of the duties on foreign fruit.Mr. Darby
 wished to take that opportunity of saying a word on a subject which was under the consideration of the House last evening. He alluded to the discussion on the case of John Thorogood. He was not present during that discussion, but from accounts which he had seen of what was said, he apprehended that there was a very great misapprehension as to the power supposed to exist of ordering the release of that individual. It had been said that the churchwardens could, by adopting a particular course, procure his liberation from prison. This was an error. The churchwardens had no such power; nor was any such power vested in any judge, or court, or body of men. A reference to the words of the Act of Parliament would put it beyond doubt that there was no authority which could order Thorogood's release save that of an act of Parliament. He felt it necessary to say thus much, because, as the opinions to which he referred had gone forth to the public, they might raise expectations in the mind of that unfortunate individual which could never be realized; for it was certain that if he were brought before his right hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Dr. Lushington) in his capacity as judge of the Consistorial Court, his learned Friend would at once declare that he had no power to order the release unless Thorogood appeared and submitted. The words of the act were, he repeated, so precise, that no authority but that of another act of the Legislature could authorize his discharge.Dr. Nicholl
 complained of the additional restrictions placed upon the manufacture of home sugar by this bill.Mr. Ewart
1065 was sure that the right hon. Baronet did not expect that he should enter on the discussion of a question of such magnitude as that which he
1065The Lord Advocate
 said, he had no intention of opposing the progress of the bill. It was intended to allow certain vessels to be relieved under particular circumstances from obligations and expenses to which they were now subjected, and he was bound to say, that he felt that the claim for relief was founded in justice in those cases to which the powers given by the bill were intended to apply, and he was satisfied that those powers would be exercised with due discretion so far as they were under the control of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade. At the same time, he must observe that when the measure was originally introduced, he had entertained the hope that the President of the Board of Trade would have been enabled to take this opportunity of effecting a material improvement in some parts of the system of pilotage; that he would on this occasion have removed to some extent from an important class of British shipping burthens of a serious and, he must say, oppressive nature which now existed; and would have substituted a direct and positive relief for that indirect mode of avoiding those burthens which had been practically adopted, which had occasioned the necessity of this bill, and without the aid of which the trade of this country must have suffered to a very considerable extent. A large portion of the shipping interest looked with great anxiety to this question, and he hoped it would receive the attention which it merited.Mr. W. Attwood
 said, it was not fit for him to answer that question. He had no hesitation in re-stating what he before asserted—his opinion that the civil power would be found amply sufficient for the vindication of the law. The ecclesiastical court might have power to visit with its censure any disobedience to its law; but if it departed from its province, the parties affected would have their own remedy.Mr. Fox Maule
106310621061 was satisfied that his countrymen would be well pleased that the right hon. Baronet had been pleased to express his attachment and regard for the Church to which they belonged. If that Church had set itself up against the law of the land in matters of civil rights, he
106310621061Mr. F. Maule
1054 acknowledged the consideration shown in a former debate, by the hon. Gentlemen opposite, to his relative, Captain Elliot, who had been placed in a situation of difficulty and embarrassment. On the present occasion, however, his conduct had been made the subject of one or two attacks. The hon. Member for Essex had charged Captain Elliot with identifying himself with the opium trade, because he had sent to the admiral on the eastern station for a man of war. Now, this proceeding coincided with the advice of the Duke of Wellington, which it had been made a charge against the Government that they had not acted on. The hon. Member had also said, that Captain Elliot had withheld from the merchants at Canton a communication, which he received from the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, cautioning him not to give protection to the merchants engaged in the smuggling trade. In this statement the hon. Member was entirely mistaken, for Captain Elliot published the communication in the papers of Canton. The next charge brought by the hon. Member against Captain Elliot was, that he allowed the opium to be landed under his guns; but if the custom-house officers of the country did not prevent the landing of the goods, what authority had Captain Elliot to interfere? The noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool, had distinctly stated that the community in Canton were in no danger until the arrival of Captain Elliot there, implying thereby, that Captain Elliot was the cause of all the risk in which they were placed; and in proof of his statement he quoted from evidence which had been merely obtained with reference to the question of compensation. He (Mr. Elliot) had, in order to put the matter in a right position, cross-examined the witnesses, and the result was, that they admitted that a memorial, setting forth that the British inhabitants of Canton felt both their lives and property in a position of fearful jeopardy previous to the arrival of Captain Elliot, had been signed by all the principal merchants there. He had also felt it his duty to ask several of the witnesses, Mr. Jardine among the number, whether, from any circumstances which had occurred within their experi-
1054Mr. Elliot
 said, that the hon. Member for Newark appeared to forget that the Chinese government had invited the government of this country to send an officer to take the superintendence of the trade on the expiration of the East India Company's charter. An edict was issued on the subject, and therefore the British superintendent was recognized by the Chinese government. There was no doubt of the brutal and inhuman treatment the representative of the British Government and the British residents had received, and that, he conceived, was a good ground for demanding reparation from the Chinese government. The question was of the greatest importance to our commercial policy. He thought hon. Gentlemen opposite were hardly entitled to say, that a war had actually commenced with China. He hoped that a strong demonstration of the power of Great Britain might be the means of procuring something like justice from that barbarian government. The conduct of Captain Elliot had been characterised by the greatest possible energy and discretion, in circumstances of almost unparalleled difficulty; and for the property which had been unjustly seized, the British Government were bound to exact compensation at the point of the bayonet.Mr. Hawes
1053l said, that looking at the facts of Captain Elliot's imprisonment, and the subsequent proceedings of the Chinese, he was not prepared to say that the Government was wrong in the steps it had taken to vindicate the national honour. But there were many other circumstances attendant on this transaction, which had not been properly investigated, and he did think that there were strong claims in behalf of British merchants, on the Government for compensation. An immense quantity of property was given up by British merchants to Captain Elliot, on his requisition, he undertaking to pay for it, and giving certificates for some portion, and drawing bills of exchange on the Government for the remainder. Yet her Majesty's Government did not intend to recognise this act of Captain Elliot's. He thought this was not fair or just to the British merchant. It might be a delicate thing to admit a claim for compensation to the amount of 2,400,0001053lMr. Maclean
 thought the Government would not have been fit to administer the affairs of the country another day, if they had not had spirit to demand reparation for the insults heaped on this nation.Mr. Muntz
1043lJ. Hobhouse:ll commenced by saying that the whole of these transactions from beginning to end were the act of her Majesty's Government, and that the result had been a profit to the revenue of this country through India of l,000,0001043lJ. Hobhouse:llMr. G. Palmer
 said, he was glad that the discussion that had taken place on this subject, and the delay that had occurred had been productive of such good effects. He still thought, that a greater reduction might be made in the expenses of the Foreign Department.Mr. Goulburn
ll said, that the Government did not appear to have informed themselves sufficiently as to the probability of the work being accomplished. The estimate was 28,000llMr. Gally Knight
 condemned the conduct of the Government with regard to the compensation part of the question. After the conduct of Captain Elliot, he did not see how it was possible to refuse the merchants compensation, whether that compensation was ultimately paid by the Chinese or the British Government. The disavowal of that particular act of Captain Elliot was calculated to destroy all confidence in the agents of the British Government. Captain Elliot's name would be dishonoured, commercially speaking, from one end of the kingdom to the other, and yet he was still retained in his post. The Ministry appeared to have acknowledged all Captain Elliot's acts which they thought tended to their own interests, while they disavowed others when it suited their own purpose. Nevertheless the policy of the Government in the war had his entire and most sincere concurrence. He thought the war was just. He believed that the way to produce a good system of commercial intercourse with China was to exhibit a large British force on that part of the world.Mr. J. A. Smith
1052 admitted the illegality of the traffic in opium, but contended, that from the moment British subjects at Canton were placed in prison to the
1052Mr. Hume
 had not brought down Colonel Campbell's despatch with him, but it was clear there was in it an assurance of the British Government to Mehemet Ali, after the battle of Koniah, that the British Government would support him in retaining possession of the territories, if he would not declare his independence of the Turkish empire. It was evident that the noble Lord had mistaken the purport of his own instructions, and before the House separated, he would bring the noble Lord's letters to the House, and read them.Mr. Hume
1028 had objected to the additional number of men to be provided by this vote, and he now protested against it. If any one would read the papers laid on the table of the House, they would see
1028Mr. Hume
1064l said, that the question before the House was, whether 5,0001064lMr. Hume
llllll1056ll1055 approved, in every way, of
llllll1056ll1055Mr. Hume
1057 was quite sure the hon. Gentleman did not mean to do any harm to the institution. It appeared to him
1057Mr. R. Gordon
 said, the whole number of the senate fixed the salaries, and a certain number were appointed examiners.Mr. R. Gordon
 said, that if the Nelson monument were left unfinished, it would be a most unsightly object, and he would, therefore, ask the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he could assure the House that he would see if sufficient money had been subscribed to complete the monument, with the ornaments, as they were originally represented to the Treasury?Mr. Greene
1037Palmerston103610351034"I have been a long time in this country, and have a few words to say in its favour. I must say, that here we find our persons and property more effectually protected by laws than in many other parts of the world. In China a man can go to sleep without a fear of his property or his life being endangered, which are well guarded by the excellent police which is established. Their trade is conducted with unexampled facility, and generally with singular good faith, although there are of course a few instances of a different description, which only the more forcibly bear out my opinion."10331032l10311030 would not allow the pre-
1037Palmerston103610351034"I have been a long time in this country, and have a few words to say in its favour. I must say, that here we find our persons and property more effectually protected by laws than in many other parts of the world. In China a man can go to sleep without a fear of his property or his life being endangered, which are well guarded by the excellent police which is established. Their trade is conducted with unexampled facility, and generally with singular good faith, although there are of course a few instances of a different description, which only the more forcibly bear out my opinion."10331032l10311030Mr. Gladstone
1044: The hon. Gentleman who had brought forward this question, as well as those who took the same views, argued it not upon broad and general principles, but as it appeared, with the object of throwing the whole blame of the war with China, which was now pending, upon the present Ministry. It should seem that the circumstances out of which the present State of things with China arose, had existed before the present Government was formed, and previous to the granting of the charter of 1813 to the East India Company. Hon. Gentlemen would remember who they were that formed the Government at that period, and, perhaps, the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool
1044Sir C. Grey
 would not object to state that any report emanating from a committee of that House should receive his best attention; but at the same time he must observe that he had declared when the committee moved for by the hon. Member (Mr. Gaily Knight) was appointed, that the Government had pledged itself that the Crown would give the site, and that he would not be a party to the Crown withdrawing its grant of the site. The only objection, as it appeared to him, that could be made to the course taken by the Government, was, whether it had ascertained that all the subscriptions had been actually made. He could not concur in the opinion that this should have been required. Every one knew that in the case of such subscriptions as this they did not always have the whole amount of the money paid up at once, and he thought that it wag not when a monument was to be raised to one of our greatest and best heroes, that the Government should be asked to weigh closely every consideration; and he believed that when the proper time came, parties would not be found wanting to supply any deficiency in a fund collected for this noble purpose.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not think the remuneration of these gentlemen very high in reference to what they were expected to do. He readily admitted that the salaries were large for the present amount of duties to be performed; but the question was this, they had to form an infant establishment, and he thought that in order to have an establishment whose endorsement should carry weight with the public, they should appoint persons of great weight and character, with the view that the examination might be such as to give a guarantee to the public that the degree was not merely a name.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
10421041W. Gladstone104010391038 said that, although the hon. Gentleman was undoubtedly perfectly justified in delivering his sentiments on the present occasion, yet at the end of the speech as at the beginning of it, he had not the slighest conception of the good the hon. Member proposed to attain by it. He did not feel himself called upon to follow the hon. Member through all the topics of his speech. It was in almost all respects only a repetition of the China debate. Since the 9th April, when that debate occurred, a committee had been appointed to inquire into the subject of
10421041W. Gladstone104010391038Sir John Hobhouse
 thought that the Government could not have awarded compensation for the opium surrendered, because, in giving the orders on the British Government, Captain Elliot had exceeded his instructions, but yet he thought that Captain Elliot was properly retained in her Majesty's service as commissioner, because he had acted in that. instance under duress, and for the purpose of saving the lives and properly of the British community.Mr. W. Hobhouse
1026"I know nothing, in Bengal, of such processions as those which the Bishop of London alludes to, nor are there any such, as far as I am aware of, in Bombay. It is only at Madras, where there are two or three native princes resident, who have been dispossessed of power, but left with the style and title of Royattes, that any such processions occur. I will write again to Lord Elphinstone on the subject; and I am sure he is working steadfastly, with every disposition to advance as fast as may be honestly and safely ventured."1025"We further desire that you will make such arrangements as may appear necessary for relieving all our servants, whether Christian, Mahomedan, or Hindoo, from the compulsory performance of any acts that may justly be considered liable to objection on the ground of religious scruples.": In answer to his hon. Friend's first question, he could tell him, that not ten days had elapsed after he gave the positive assurance mentioned, ere he did his best, as far as he was concerned, to carry his wishes into effect. On the 8th of August, 1838, a despatch was sent out from the Court of Directors of the East India Company to the Government of India upon the subject, the concluding words of which were these:—
1026"I know nothing, in Bengal, of such processions as those which the Bishop of London alludes to, nor are there any such, as far as I am aware of, in Bombay. It is only at Madras, where there are two or three native princes resident, who have been dispossessed of power, but left with the style and title of Royattes, that any such processions occur. I will write again to Lord Elphinstone on the subject; and I am sure he is working steadfastly, with every disposition to advance as fast as may be honestly and safely ventured."1025"We further desire that you will make such arrangements as may appear necessary for relieving all our servants, whether Christian, Mahomedan, or Hindoo, from the compulsory performance of any acts that may justly be considered liable to objection on the ground of religious scruples."Sir J. Hobhouse
 said, that nothing could be more satisfactory than his right hon. Friend's answer as respected the two presidencies of Bengal and Bombay, and he trusted, that it would be equally satisfactory in another year as far as related to Madras.—Petitions laid on the table.Sir R. Inglis
, having presented petitions upon the subject of Idolatry in India, said he would take that opportunity to put the question on this subject, of which he had given notice, to the right hon. Baronet, the President of the Board of Control. The right hon. Baronet, on the 26th of July, of the year 1838, said, that as far as it depended upon himself, he thought the time had arrived for the discontinuance of the connexion of the East India Company with the system of idolatry. The right hon. Baronet had stated that an official representation should be sent out, such as would render it impossible for any functionary in India to make a mistake. He wished to know whether such a despatch had been addressed to the government of India—what was the result of such despatch at the different presidencies—whether it had worked well at the Bengal presidency, and worked differently at Madras? And, if so, whether any censure had been passed upon the government at Madras, and whether measures had been taken to stimulate that government to the performance of its duty? And the last question he had to ask was, whether the right hon. Baronet would feel it his duty to give to or withhold from the House a copy of the despatch addressed under his sanction by the East India Company to the respective presidencies?Sir R. Inglis
1029 begged to be allowed to interpose. If the right hon. Gentleman were called upon to answer the question upon his hon. Friend's statement of facts, he could only give one answer; if the column were left unfinished, he must answer that it would be an unsightly object.
1029Sir R. Inglis
1051Palmerston:1050 said, our relations with China were at present in a very complicated state, and it was possible that the result might be embarrassing in the highest degree. With regard to the
1051Palmerston:1050Sir R. Peel
: Then with respect to any intestine troubles, wholly unconnected with Don Carlos, the treaty, he apprehended, was not in operation.Sir R. Peel
 would ask a question which would not affect the future policy; it was, whether the contingency had arrived which was contemplated in the Quadruple Treaty entered into between this country, France, Spain, and Portugal? Whether the conditions of that treaty had been fulfilled, or whether the treaty was still in force?Sir Robert Peel
10601059 gave his entire concurrence to the vote. He would take the opportunity of saying, that he deeply regretted the dissensions in ecclesiastical matters which had taken place in Scotland. He had had opportunities of standing in close relation towards that Church, and he felt as strongly as any member of that Church could do, that the public acknowledgments were due to that Church for the services it had rendered. He considered it as one of the most important and useful instruments in propagating true religion, suited to the country in which it was placed, with reference to the past history and present social condition of that country, and calculated to maintain those principles of order and tranquillity which were insecure unless based on a sense of duty. He regretted that a portion of that Church had placed itself in opposition to the State on a question of civil right. The supreme tribunal of Scotland had given its decision, and an appeal had been made to the House of Lords. Upon a question which involved the interpretation of a statute, there could be no authority to act in defiance of a statute law of this country so interpreted. He saw that in Scotland, in reference to this case, allusion had been made to the division of authority which had taken place between the House of Commons and the Court of Queen's Bench. But the cases were quite different. The House of Commons asserted its right upon constitutional principles to interpret its own privileges. This question, which arose in Scotland, was on the interpretation of a statute, and there was no power to place an interpretation on a statute at variance with the regularly established tribunals of this country, and still less to reject a law which had been passed by the three branches of the Legislature. He regretted that the Church had come to a determination, not only to disregard the decision of the House of Lords, but to place a contrary interpretation on it, and that they had not felt the pre-eminent obligation of setting an example to all the subjects of her Majesty in Scotland of paying implicit deference to the law after it had been so interpreted. The Session ought not to pass over without an attempt
10601059Sir R. Peel
 said, that there was one question which he wished to ask the hon. Under Secretary of State. The hon. Gentleman had given his opinion, that the civil law would be sufficient to put down all differences on the subject of the Church. Now supposing certain ministers were to obey the authority of the House of Lords, and that their functions were therefore suspended; was there any mode of affording them redress?Sir R. Peel
 said, there was no authority for their fixing the salaries without the control of the Treasury. He must say, that a more extravagant remuneration for the amount of business done and the number of persons examined, he never saw in an old establishment, or in which the number of persons employed appeared so disproportionate to the number of persons examined. He thought that an infant establishment ought to have an infant number of examiners. He hoped that there would be some alteration in the power given of fixing the salaries. He could only express his heartfelt thanks that, instead of having twenty examiners, they had not forty, and that some of the examiners had been satisfied to take so little pay, considering the power as to the points which was vested in them.Sir R. Peel
 thought it very absurd that the gentlemen of the senate, out of their own body, should find all the examiners, and themselves fix the salariesSir R. Peel
 conceived, that the fair meaning of the parties to that treaty was, an engagement to assist the Queen of Spain through the contest that was then going on between the Queen of Spain and Don Carlos. Substantially he believed that that contest was over. Don Carlos had been expelled from Spain, and no less than 27,000 of his troops had crossed the frontier and were now in France. Virtually then, he said, that the engagement was over; but if immediately the same state of things should arise, the spirit of that treaty would require a recurrence to the same steps as were required formerly; the treaty would, as he conceived, be still in force, and the same parties would be equally bound by it.Viscount Palmerston
 had said, when the estimate was formerly before the House, that he was not answerable for it; it had been made by the Post-office, and had been framed on a calculation of the amount of correspondence which formerly took place. The present reduction in the estimate had been made in some degree in consequence of the stricter regulations which he had introduced, with respect to the foreign bags, in which much laxity had undoubtedly prevailed.Viscount Palmerston
 would not go into any difference of opinion between himself and his hon. Friend; he would only state one fact. His hon. Friend said, that the papers laid upon the table of the House proved that the English Government had pledged itself to Mehemet Ali to support him in the occupation of the districts committed to his government. He (Viscount Palmerston) wished that his hon. Friend would look at the papers again, because he was satisfied that no engagement whatever of that kind had been made, and that the English Government were not parties to any arrangement with regard to a guarantee either one way or the other.Viscount Palmerston
bis dat qui dat cito,Such a deed would be quite atrocious."Exceedingly well,And proved from VattelAnd Puffendorf and Grotius,"Quoted Wicquefort,104910481047 did not wish to prolong the conversation, which was somewhat irregular; but he was anxious that it should not close without some observations on his part. He concurred with his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Control, in being unable to understand the precise bearing of the hon. Member for Newark's mind on the question, whether those persons who had lost their property by the acts of the Chinese Government, are or not entitled to compensation. In one part of the hon. Member's speech, he seemed to contend that the merchants were not entitled to compensation; but in another part of his speech he contended that compensation ought to be given to them, and that it ought to be given out of the revenues 'dl the country. Whichever was the opinion of the hon. Member, he was at a loss to understand the course which the hon. Member had taken with regard to this question. The hon. Member certainly appeared to entertain a very strong opinion, that the proceedings of the Government towards China were unjust, and ought not to be persevered in, for the hon. Member had staled that opinion very strongly, indeed much more strongly than he could
bis dat qui dat cito,Such a deed would be quite atrocious."Exceedingly well,And proved from VattelAnd Puffendorf and Grotius,"Quoted Wicquefort,104910481047Viscount Palmerston
10461045 had not intended to take part in this debate, as none of the statements or arguments of the hon. Member for Newark had been at all answered; but he wished to say a few words upon what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down. He did not think that the Government would be pleased with the advocacy of the hon. Gentleman, for he had gone so far as to say that the Chinese policy of excluding us from trading with them on our own terms was illegal. He could not imagine in what school the hon. and learned Gen-
10461045Viscount Sandon
10831082108110801079 said, that he certainly felt it his duty to oppose the third reading. In doing so, however, it was not necessary to go into the whole question of
10831082108110801079Lord John Russell
 did not think the time was yet come for them to make any further alterations in the law. When they referred to the wisdom of our ancestors, he came to the opinion that there was not any justification for going farther than they had already done; and as regarded the protection of females, he hoped that the day would not arrive when the House Would withdraw that protection to which they were entitled, and which they had hitherto experienced.Sir Charles Burrell
10861085de facto1084 concurred most fully in the opinion of the noble Lord (J. Russell) as to the necessity of seeming protection to her Majesty's subjects against the violence of criminal men, and he should have concurred still more fully in those opinions had the noble Lord shown, by the records of criminal justice, that the course formerly pursued, when the gallows was the ordinary mode of punishment, had afforded that protection to life and property which was so necessary. He agreed wholly and without reserve in the principle laid down by the noble Lord, but he dissented equally and unreservedly from the method which the noble Lord
10861085de facto1084Dr. Lushington
10881087 agreed with many of the views of his hon. and learned Friend, but he regretted that he could not go with him to the extent that this bill would require. They had all heard, he was sure, with extreme satisfaction the speech of the noble Lord Opposite. There was scarcely a syllable in it that had not his hearty concurrence. He Wished not to be understood as the advocate of a sanguinary code of laws. So far was he from being such, that no one could have regarded, with greater horror, that system of criminal law which was in force in this country twenty-five or thirty-five years ago. For instance, he remembered that a man was hanged at Cambridge for
10881087The Earl of Darlington
1089 said, the testimony of the noble Earl went to show that a great improvement in public morals had taken place since the diminution of executions. Were not the same objections formerly urged against the mitigation of punishment for minor offences which were now
1089Mr. Hume
(Signed by the Mayor of Gloucester, four Justices of the Peace for the county and city, and an eminent Physician.)1094"In the hope that this private communication of the facts above stated may tend to determine your Lordship in carrying the proposed ameliorations of the criminal law sufficiently far to meet the decidedly altered views of society, and to secure the community against the improper acquittal of guilty and dangerous men, we beg to subscribe ourselves,
1094"We may throw the blame upon the jury it is true, but that will not correct the evil of which we complain, since from what we have seen of the difficulty of obtaining convictions in capital cases, and from what we know of the growing repugnance in the public mind to sacrifice of life, we consider it quite certain that juries will be found more and more unwilling to become accessary to a punishment at which their feelings will increasingly revolt as it becomes more rare, and the uselessness of which, for the protection of society, is daily becoming more apparent."It is this circumstance that has excited and alarmed the public mind in this neighbourhood with regard to this case, and has induced us to bring it especially under the notice of your Lordship at this important juncture, as a clear and practical illustration of the evils arising out of our present system of criminal jurisprudence; evils which we believe can only be remedied by such an alteration of the law as shall substitute some severe secondary punishment for that of death."The jury, after a long deliberation, inquired of the judge whether they could bring in any mitigating form of verdict which would save the lives of the prisoners, of whose guilt such an inquiry proves they were convinced? On finding, however, there was no alternative between acquittal and death, their fears of being accessory to the infliction of this dreadful punishment appears to have overcome every other consideration, as they soon returned a verdict of ' Not guilty,' to the astonishment of all who had heard the evidence given in the court. The case has produced an unusual sensation in this city and neighbourhood, and every one feels that there must be something decidedly wrong for men so clearly guilty of so black a crime to be thrown back upon society altogether unpunished, by the verdict of twelve disinterested men. And if the evil, wherever it may lie, is not speedily corrected, society will be left in a fearfully unprotected condition, and a great encouragement will be given to the commission of the deepest crimes."It appears that three men, named Parry, Wright, and Rea, were indicted for a violent assault and rape committed on the person of Mary Lee. The evidence not only proved most clearly the guilt of the prisoners, but also that the crime had been committed under the most revolting circumstances of violence and cruelty.1093"We, the undersigned, being resident in and near Gloucester, feel deeply interested in a trial that has just taken place at the assizes in this city, and considering its result has a most important bearing on the proposed alterations in the criminal laws now under the care of Government, feel it our duty to lay before your Lordship some important particulars of the trial, for the veracity of which we beg to
1093To the Right Hon. Lord John Russell."To the Right Hon. Lord John Russell.109210911090 replied. If, in asking the House to agree to the third reading of this bill, it could be shown that the slightest increase in the number of crimes had taken place, he should have left the measure to be proposed by some Member more experienced in legislation than he; but in bringing forward this bill, and in now entreating the House to agree to pass it into a law, he had felt as morally certain as
(Signed by the Mayor of Gloucester, four Justices of the Peace for the county and city, and an eminent Physician.)1094"In the hope that this private communication of the facts above stated may tend to determine your Lordship in carrying the proposed ameliorations of the criminal law sufficiently far to meet the decidedly altered views of society, and to secure the community against the improper acquittal of guilty and dangerous men, we beg to subscribe ourselves,
1094"We may throw the blame upon the jury it is true, but that will not correct the evil of which we complain, since from what we have seen of the difficulty of obtaining convictions in capital cases, and from what we know of the growing repugnance in the public mind to sacrifice of life, we consider it quite certain that juries will be found more and more unwilling to become accessary to a punishment at which their feelings will increasingly revolt as it becomes more rare, and the uselessness of which, for the protection of society, is daily becoming more apparent."It is this circumstance that has excited and alarmed the public mind in this neighbourhood with regard to this case, and has induced us to bring it especially under the notice of your Lordship at this important juncture, as a clear and practical illustration of the evils arising out of our present system of criminal jurisprudence; evils which we believe can only be remedied by such an alteration of the law as shall substitute some severe secondary punishment for that of death."The jury, after a long deliberation, inquired of the judge whether they could bring in any mitigating form of verdict which would save the lives of the prisoners, of whose guilt such an inquiry proves they were convinced? On finding, however, there was no alternative between acquittal and death, their fears of being accessory to the infliction of this dreadful punishment appears to have overcome every other consideration, as they soon returned a verdict of ' Not guilty,' to the astonishment of all who had heard the evidence given in the court. The case has produced an unusual sensation in this city and neighbourhood, and every one feels that there must be something decidedly wrong for men so clearly guilty of so black a crime to be thrown back upon society altogether unpunished, by the verdict of twelve disinterested men. And if the evil, wherever it may lie, is not speedily corrected, society will be left in a fearfully unprotected condition, and a great encouragement will be given to the commission of the deepest crimes."It appears that three men, named Parry, Wright, and Rea, were indicted for a violent assault and rape committed on the person of Mary Lee. The evidence not only proved most clearly the guilt of the prisoners, but also that the crime had been committed under the most revolting circumstances of violence and cruelty.1093"We, the undersigned, being resident in and near Gloucester, feel deeply interested in a trial that has just taken place at the assizes in this city, and considering its result has a most important bearing on the proposed alterations in the criminal laws now under the care of Government, feel it our duty to lay before your Lordship some important particulars of the trial, for the veracity of which we beg to
1093To the Right Hon. Lord John Russell."To the Right Hon. Lord John Russell.109210911090Mr. F. Kelly
1098109710961095 could assure his hon. and learned Friend, that he did not believe that he had brought forward the motion through feelings of inconsiderate humanity, but that he thought he was taking by the measure he had proposed fresh and better security for the protection pf persons and of property. He was perfectly assured that such was
1098109710961095Sir R. Peel
11011100"Let wretches hang that jurymen may dine."1099No, no. ! said, the chief arguments used by the right hon. Baronet were founded on the alleged inefficacy of imprisonment and transportation as preventives to crime. But were they now, merely because they had not arrived at perfection in the mode of working out those punishments, to pause in carrying into operation any further amendment of the criminal code, or in proceeding further with those mitigations of it of which the right hon. Baronet himself had once been the advocate? The right hon. Baronet did not agree in any one subject with the noble Lord. The noble Lord stated that in his opinion, the fear of death had still some effect in preventing the commission of crime; but the right hon. Baronet discarded that supposition.—[11011100"Let wretches hang that jurymen may dine."1099No, no. !Mr. Ewart
 said, he should support the third reading, but with the intention if the third reading was agreed to, of moving that the case of rape be excepted.Mr. Langdale
1103"Resolution to sell the Clergy Reserves for
1103 objected to the bill. As a proof that the hostility of the people of Upper Canada to everything in the shape of a church establishment was not of recent origin, but had long been entertained, the hon. Gentleman referred to the journals of the House of Assembly in Upper Canada, in which there was entered a resolution recommending the sale of the clergy reserves, and the application of them to purposes of education. The hon. Gentleman read the following extract from the journals of the House of Assembly of Upper Canada, March 12, 1831:—
1103"Resolution to sell the Clergy Reserves for
1103Mr. Hume
1104 said, that though the arrangement made on this subject,
1104Lord John Russell
 opposed it. He conceived, that the bill would make a fearful inroad upon the rights of private property.Colonel Sibthorp
 recommended the withdrawal of the bill until next Session.Mr. Hodges
 would persevere with the bill.Mr. Handley
 gave a qualified support to the bill, and thought it advisable to go into committee upon it, in order to rid it of its objectionable features, retaining those clauses which were likely to prove good and useful. He objected to the extensive powers given to the overseers, but approved of the proposed appeal to the borough magistrates.Captain Pechell
 hoped the hon. Gentlemen opposite would not persist in opposing the progress of the bill. In committee he should be prepared to make some alterations, in order to render it more palatable to the hon. Members who had spoken on the subject.Mr. P. Scrope
s.l.1106 objected to the amount of the penalty to be levied by this clause on overseers if they did not discharge
s.l.1106Captain Pechell
 looked on the clause as a vague piece of legislation.Mr. Goulburn
 was of opinion, that it would press with too great severity on those public officers.Sir A. Dalrymple
 defended the clause, on the ground that it was necessary to prevent the frauds which often took place in rating.Mr. P. Scrope
1108 submitted that this bill ought to proceed. Its promoters had hitherto acted under the directions of the Speaker, and having been brought in, there was no reason why it should not be carried through before the termination of the present Session. Acting upon this feeling, he should press the motion, even though it were opposed by the hon. Member for Lambeth. The purposes to which the money to be raised under the bill would be productive of great benefit, not only to the rich, but more especially to the poor. The first improvement contemplated by the bill, to be founded upon this resolution, was to continue a broad street from the eastward termination of Oxford-street, through the impoverished and wretched district of St. Giles's to the broader part of Holborn. Another improvement was to open a broad and health-giving causeway through the densely-inhabited districts in the neighbourhood of Whitechapel. A third improvement was to extend a line of communication from Bow-street to the vicinity of Clerkenwell. These three improvements, all of which must be admitted to be of the utmost importance to the poor, had already received the sanction of Parliament, and needed only the means to be provided by this bill to be carried into immediate effect. By another bill which now stood for the second reading, but the execution of which was in some degree dependent upon that which was to be founded upon the resolution now proposed to be brought up, other improvements of a not less important character were proposed to be effected, and which he should have imagined not one of the representatives of the metropolitan districts would have wished to oppose. One of these was, to open a broad line of
1108Mr. E. J. Stanley
 said, that a committee of the House of Commons was the worst tribunal which could possibly exist for the distribution of the funds to be raised under a measure such as the present. He thought that a board should be established for this purpose, as it was a most onerous and most invidious duty to be undertaken by Members locally interested in the proposed improvements. He found that the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, had only to see that the improvements were carried into effect; but he thought it would have been much better had they possessed the power of distributing the tax which Parliament was about to levy. At all events, he was of opinion that no hon. Member who had a local interest in the matter ought to take any part in the distribution of the tax, which he considered a most objectionable one, as it pressed most severely on the poor.Mr. Aglionby
1111 said, that his constituents had a deeper interest in this matter than any other party concerned. For himself, he originally objected to the tax on coals, nor would he have consented to the continuance of it, had it not been demonstrated to him that this would be for the advantage of the public. In all the meetings that had been held in the Tower Hamlets, not one dissentient voice had been raised against the continuance of
1111Dr. Lushington
 Somerset expressed his determination of voting with the hon. Member for Lambeth, in opposition to the bill. He would rather that a tax of this kind should be made permanent, and the proceeds of it be devoted to some fixed and definite purpose, than that it should be prolonged from time to time for uncertain periods and for uncertain objects. In his opinion the alterations now contemplated, however much they might tend to beautify the metropolis, and to increase the conveniences of the rich, would confer no benefit upon the poor, and contribute but little to the improvement of the general health.Lord Granville
10761075 rose to move that the Regency Bill be read a second time. Her Majesty had thought it due to the interests of the country, that she should call on Parliament to provide for a contingency which he was sure, if the wishes and prayers of her people were to prevail, we should have no reason to dread. But as it was, no doubt the duty of Parliament to provide for the exercise of the Royal authority in any contingency, and as they were then called on to make provision for that purpose, the question for the House to consider was, in what manner they might best provide for the government of the country, in case of the termination of her Majesty's life, while she left an offspring under that age at which princes or princesses are considered fit to exercise the Royal authority in this country. In stating the provisions of the bill now before the House, it would not be necessary for him to enter into any detail of what was done in other similar cases, except in a single instance. The precedents on the subject were, generally speaking, unsatisfactory, having been for the greater part made the occasion of much party difference, and the provisions being generally encumbered with stipulations and provisos extremely doubtful in their effects. The only precedent on the subject to which Parliament could look with satisfaction, was that which it was proposed to follow in the present bill—namely, the provisions of the Regency Bill in the year 1830, introduced into the other House by Lord Lyndhurst, then Lord Chancellor, and cordially supported, not
10761075Lord J. Russell
1107 objected to the introduction of that bill at so late a period of the Session. He objected also to the mode in which the recommendations for the improvements had come before the House. If the coal duties were to be applied as was proposed, the whole question ought to be first inquired into. They ought firs
1107Mr. Hawes
 was understood to state, that this was one of that kind of bills, of which several had been introduced in the course of the present Session, and which seemed to partake almost as much of the character of a private as of a public measure. Under these circumstances, if his opinion were asked, he should say, that it ought, perhaps, in strictness, to be referred to the standing committee on private bills.The Speaker
 observed, that the hon. Gentleman had omitted to enumerate one of the striking advantages of the bill, which was, that it went to impose a tax which nobody would live to pay. He meant nobody who was now alive.Mr. Baines
, yielding to no one in a desire to improve the healthiness of the metropolis, still thought that there were several very serious points of consideration arising out of this proposition. He, for instance, residing in Surrey, at a distance of twenty-one miles from town, was a contributer to the London coal duties. But he had no greater interest in the improvement of the metropolis than those who lived in other counties, and at a greater distance. Why, then, was he to be taxed for a period of four additional years for a benefit which he could enjoy only in common with all the rest of the kingdom? If these improvements were to be effected at all, he thought it should be at the expense of the country at large, and not at the cost only of the few counties which happened to surround the metropolis. He was also of opinion, that the practice of prolonging duties of this description, in order to work out objects of the kind now proposed, was highly objectionable. At all events, before any final decision were come to, he thought all these points ought to be seriously considered.Mr. Goulburn
1074 said, that when his attention had been called to this subject, on a former evening, he had stated the causes of the delay of this measure to so
1074Mr. Labouchere
1109, at the commencement of the Session, had understood one of the members of the Government to give a
1109Mr. Warburton
 concurred in the provisions of the bill, but wished to call the attention of the House and of the noble Lord, more for the purpose of obtaining information than of making any objection to the state of things which might exist, if at the death or disqualification of the regent, Parliament should be prorogued, or should be dissolved, and no new Parliament assembled. All the precedents down to 1830 had provided for this contingency. The case of an accession was provided for, but he was not aware of the existence of any authority to assemble Parliament in case of the death or disqualification of a regent. Why should not some provision for this contingency be inserted in the present bill? He broadly admitted, that in the bill of 1830 no such provision was made, but he did not know what inconvenience would arise from introducing it. In the precedent of 1811, when his Majesty was incapable of exercising the Royal prerogative, they had been obliged to resort to what certainly appeared a very crooked proceeding, although he admitted it was justified by the circumstances of the case. The two Houses of Parliament authorized the great seal to be put to a commission without the sign manual, and the commissioners appointed by that commission gave the Royal assent to the Regency Bill. At the time, the proceeding was much objected to, and particularly by hon. Members on the other side, who preferred an address to a bill. It was thought that the contingency should have been provided for by a general law, and that the President of the Council should be authorized to supply the want of the sign-manual in such a case. This could not be considered a fanciful objection, when it was remembered that in the act repealing the attainder of the Duke of Norfolk, the want of the sign-manual was made the ground of repealing that attainder.Mr. Freshfield
1110l. said, that the opposition to the present bill came too late, for no objection had ever been raised to the recommendations of the committee till now that they were about to be carried into effect. He maintained that the improvements proposed were essential to the public convenience and also to the public health. As to the funds for making these improvements, no hon. Member had told the House whence they might derive them. They must be had from some source, and he thought that the proposed duty on coals was as unobjectionable a source as could well be conceived. It would not do for hon. Gentlemen opposite to object to the tax because the improvements were to be of a local nature. It was only last night that they had voted 5,0001110l.Mr. Wakley
10781077 begged to express his most hearty concurrence in the prayer offered up by the noble Lord, which he was sure was in unison with the feelings of every Member of that House—thai it might please Almighty God to avert the contingency for which this bill was intended to provide, and to make the enactments of the measure of no other effect than of being necessary to provide for every contingency that might happen. In the provisions of the bill he cordially concurred. It was founded altogether on the precedent set in 1830 by the Government, of which he was at the time a member, which was introduced by Lord Lyndhurst, and to which it would have been his (Sir R.
10781077Sir R. Peel
d.d.d.d.d.d.s. wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, what was the course he intended to take with respect to the duties proposed to be levied upon coffee? There were at present three descriptions of duties levied on that article. First, there was a duty of 1d.d.d.d.d.d.s.Sir R. Peel
 obtained leave to bring in a bill to alter and amend the law regarding process upon contempts in the Courts Ecclesiastical in England and Ireland, and to facilitate the discharge of persons who now are or hereafter may be in custody for contempts of any such courts. The hon. and learned Gentleman explained that the object of this bill was similar to that just introduced by the noble Lord. He objected to the mode in which the noble Lord's bill sought to obtain its object, and therefore, with the consent of the noble Lord, had prepared the measure he now proposed. It would be for the House to determine between the two.Dr. Nichol
1158 seeing the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade in his place, begged to recall to the right hon. Gentleman's recollection the conversation that took place on a former evening relative to the class of persons who were to be appointed inspectors under this bill. He had heard that a gentleman much connected with railways was exceedingly anxious to become an inspector under this bill. Now he certainly should not have given his assent to this bill unless he had understood that a rule was to be laid down that no person connected with railways was to be appointed. He hoped that this rule would apply to persons recently connected with railways as he certainly would never have consented to the passing of the bill if he had not a satisfactory assurance of the intention of
1158Lord G. Somerset
 begged, in answer, to assure the noble Lord, that not one Gentleman only was anxious to take office under this bill, but a great number of Gentlemen were extremely anxious to be employed. He must decline to give any specific pledge upon a subject of this kind. With regard to any applications that bad been made to him, he had carefully and studiously avoided committing himself in the way of promises. He must wait until he saw in what shape the bill would pass before he considered and before he consulted others, the Chancellor of the Exchequer especially, with whom it would be his duty to consult with regard to the increase of allowance it would be necessary to have voted. Until the bill should have passed, he could not consult as to the most economical and efficient manner of carrying the bill into effect, and he must therefore decline pledging himself as to the precise mode of carrying out that measure. Whether he should appoint one inspector-general, or whether it was more desirable (an opinion to which he rather inclined) to appoint engineers to inspect by the job, so as not to give to any one person the sole inspection, he was not at present prepared to state. He had, however, no difficulty in saying that he should think it most objectionable to employ any person in any matter, under this bill, if he was at the time actually connected with any railway whatever. So far he did not hesitate to state his opinion; but whether the past connexion of any individual with a railway was to qualify or to disqualify, and whether recent connexion was to be considered, or what limit was to be affixed to that connexion, was a point upon which he thought it was not desirable that he should pledge himself. All he would say was, that he would take care that nobody actually connected with a railway should be employed under this bill, but with regard to any other point he should follow the course which upon consideration should appear most desirable.Mr. Labouchere
1159 thought the measure which affected a very large and important body of persons was very little understood. In no one stage of it had there been a fair discussion of its principle. There had been a hasty consideration of its clauses, and he thought, it would be
1159Mr. Easthope
 thought that this was a good opportunity for complaining that the tonnage by the new measurement was taken as the standard for the measurement of the vessels taken and broken up; for the captors to obtain the bounties the act of 1838 required the production of a certificate of the registry under the new measurement, but as many vessels were captured, and broken up before the new tonnage came into operation, it was impossible for the captors to obtain the certificates of the measurement by the new tonnage, and much money still remained due to the captors. By the new method of tonnage, too, the compensation to all captors was greatly diminished. He trusted that an opportunity would be taken in this bill of providing for the payment of the bounties due to the captors, and unpaid in consequence of the difficulty to which he had alluded.Captain Pechell
 observed that this bill would give bounties for vessels taken without slaves and broken up; as to the question of the measurement, all the Treasury wanted was some evidence of the amount of the tonnage; they did not require the English but the foreign tonnage; in fact, some proof of what the size of the vessels captured was.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1160 thought that this bill should be proceeded with this Session. Some of the clauses were undoubtedly good, but others were exceedingly stringent. They were taken from an old Eng-
1160Mr. Warburton
 said, nothing would have induced him to propose the bill, if he had not been assured that it met with the consent not only of the master manufacturers of the north of Ireland, but also of the operatives, who had all made representations to him, that unless some measure were passed, the manufacturers would be much injured. The objections of his hon. Friend would be better considered in committee, but in the main the bill only extended to Ireland the law of England, which was indeed an old law, but actually in beneficial operation. Of course, if his hon. Friend persevered in his objection, he could not press the bill, but considering the urgency and importance of some remedy, he hoped that his hon. Friend would withdraw his amendment.Mr. Labouchere
l. said, he had never before met with laws so stringent in their operation as those in the 10th section of this act. He admitted the necessity of protecting the property of the manufacturers in Ireland; but what was wanted was a just law, one not more stringent than the necessity of the case required. This bill, however gave the officer a power of search without a warrant, and the householder resisting such an aggression was subject to a penalty of 5l.Mr. Wakley
 considering the lateness of the period at which this measure had been introduced, and the many important interests which it affected, felt bound to move, that the committee on this bill be postponed till that day three mouths.Mr. Warburton,
1156 said, that having given notice of his intention to proceed with the Administration of Justice Bill, he had ventured to hope that as that bill had been very much discussed in the other House of Parliament, as it had been a long time before a select committee, and as it met with very general concurrence, at this period of the Session no objection would
1156Lord John Russell
 said, he had never denied the necessity of some measure like the present, but he thought it ought to be accompanied with improvements in courts, either connected with the equity courts or being courts of appeal from them. In the next Session he should have no objection to the introduction of the bill then on the table of the House, with the view of making it the foundation of a measure really beneficial to the administration of justice.Sir E. Sugden
 was understood to state, that notwithstanding the stricture pronounced upon the opinion which he had ventured to offer when this subject was last under consideration, he was still disposed, after more mature deliberation, to adhere to it. He repeated his belief, that in the case of Thorogood, if the churchwardens being contented by any means, or disposed to relinquish their claim upon that person, came by their proctor before the Ecclesiastical Court, and proposed to withdraw the citation, the judge would have felt it his duty to sign a certificate that would have occasioned the immediate release of the prisoner.Mr. H. Vernon
 observed, that that also had been his own opinion, but a contrary opinion having been expressed by a learned judge for whom he had a most sincere respect—he meant the learned judge who presided in the Consistorial Court of the Bishop of London—he felt bound at once to yield to it; and as there appeared to be a general feeling in the House that the imprisonment of Thorogood should cease, the present bill was proposed to effect that object. Whatever his own opinion might have been, he thought that the House was bound to act upon that which had been expressed by the judge of the court in which cases of this description were dealt with.The Attorney-General
1162 in the absence of Lord John Russell, moved for leave to bring in a bill to amend the act for the better regulation of Ecclesiastical Courts in England. The noble Lord observed, that although this would appear to open a very important and very extensive subject, the real object of the bill which he sought to introduce was, in fact, confined to one specific point. He did not propose at that moment to enter into the merits of the case of John Thorogood, or of the sentence under which he was suffering. But as it seemed to be felt very generally on both sides of the House when the subject was last under discussion, that the imprisonment of Thorogood had already lasted for a very considerable time, the object of the bill which he now proposed
1162Viscount Morpeth,
1157 said, that the proposals made by the mediating power had
1157Viscount Palmerston
 on the part of persons interested in the trade in Sulphur, begged to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, what was the nature of the agreement that had been entered into on this subject with the Neapolitan government. He was also desirous of learning at what period the monopoly was to cease, and what was the nature of the indemnity to be made to British subjects for the losses sustained by them, and upon what principles was it to be calculated. Finally, he wished to know whether the commissioners to be appointed would be Neapolitan or British, or whether it would be a mixed commission?Viscount Sandon,
l.l1183 thought, that great injustice had been done to his hon. Friend, the Member for Walsall, by representing him as representing the water interest. His hon. Friend assured him, that he had no share in any water or canal company. He believed, that some Members of that House could not say so much with respect to railways. He thought that the hon. Member had only the interest of the public at heart. He did not understand his hon. Friend to desire, that inquisitorial powers should be given with respect to the proceedings of railway companies, but merely that it was necessary to have a salutary check upon them as regarded the public. All he said was, that they had cut up the country—that they had in-
l.l1183Mr. Aglionby
"Provided always, and be it further enacted, that in case any such proclamation as aforesaid shall issue in any or either of such cases as aforesaid, at any time subsequent to the dissolution or expiration of a Parliament, and before the day appointed by any writs of summons then issued for assembling a new Parliament, then and in such case the last preceding Parliament shall immediately convene and sit at Westminster, and be a Parliament, and continue during the space of six months, and no longer, to all intents and purposes as if the same Parliament had not been dissolved or expired, but subject to be sooner prorogued or dissolved. Provided also, that if any such proclamation as aforesaid shall issue in any or either of such cases as aforesaid, upon or at any time after the day appointed by any writs of summons then issued for calling and assembling a new Parliament, and before such new Parliament shall have met and sat as a Parliament, such new Parliament shall immediately after such proclamation convene and sit at Westminster, and be deemed to be a Parliament in being to all intents and purposes under the provisions of this act.""And be it further enacted, that if his Royal Highness Prince Albert shall depart this life during the continuance of the regency by this act established, or cease to be regent under any of the provisions thereof, the lords of the Privy Council then in being, shall forthwith cause a proclamation to be issued in the name of the King or Queen for whom such regent shall have been appointed, under the Great Seal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, declaring the same; and in case the Parliament in being at the time of the issuing of any proclamation declaring the death of the regent, or that he has ceased to be regent under any of the provisions of this act, shall then be separated by any adjournment or prorogation, such Parliament shall forthwith meet and sit.1178 begged to call the attention of the House to some contingencies, which in his opinion, were not sufficiently provided for by the bill as it stood. He thought it was right, if not absolutely necessary, to provide for the immediate assembling of Parliament in case of the death or legal disqualification of the regent, in the event of this bill ever becom-
"Provided always, and be it further enacted, that in case any such proclamation as aforesaid shall issue in any or either of such cases as aforesaid, at any time subsequent to the dissolution or expiration of a Parliament, and before the day appointed by any writs of summons then issued for assembling a new Parliament, then and in such case the last preceding Parliament shall immediately convene and sit at Westminster, and be a Parliament, and continue during the space of six months, and no longer, to all intents and purposes as if the same Parliament had not been dissolved or expired, but subject to be sooner prorogued or dissolved. Provided also, that if any such proclamation as aforesaid shall issue in any or either of such cases as aforesaid, upon or at any time after the day appointed by any writs of summons then issued for calling and assembling a new Parliament, and before such new Parliament shall have met and sat as a Parliament, such new Parliament shall immediately after such proclamation convene and sit at Westminster, and be deemed to be a Parliament in being to all intents and purposes under the provisions of this act.""And be it further enacted, that if his Royal Highness Prince Albert shall depart this life during the continuance of the regency by this act established, or cease to be regent under any of the provisions thereof, the lords of the Privy Council then in being, shall forthwith cause a proclamation to be issued in the name of the King or Queen for whom such regent shall have been appointed, under the Great Seal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, declaring the same; and in case the Parliament in being at the time of the issuing of any proclamation declaring the death of the regent, or that he has ceased to be regent under any of the provisions of this act, shall then be separated by any adjournment or prorogation, such Parliament shall forthwith meet and sit.1178Mr. Freshfield
1179 had considered the proposal of the hon. Gentleman, and it seemed to him better upon the whole to take the bill as it had been sent down from the House of Lords, and on the principle on which it was framed in conformity with the regency bill of 1830. The bill provided fully for the first contingency that could arise, and he thought it better to leave future contingencies to be provided for by the Parliament of the time.
1179Lord J. Russell
 said, the House did not seem to have sufficiently attended to the principle of this bill. The object of it was to give the Lord Chancellor a power of transferring children who may have committed felony to the care of any benevolent persons who might undertake thereafter to educate and provide for them. No doubt such a measure had arisen from a benevolent feeling, but he called on the House to pause before they sanctioned such an interference with the rights of parents. He had many objections to the details of the bill, but he would then content himself by moving that it be committed that day three months.Lord Granville Somerset
ex post facto said that this bill had come down to them with the sanction of the Lord Chancellor and the other House of Parliament. The object of the bill was to remove children from the influence of vicious parents. Hitherto the law had been directly opposed to the benevolent views of those individuals and societies who had exerted themselves to save children from further perversion, and the object of this bill was to place a discretionary power in the Lord Chancellor for the purpose of facilitating their efforts. If the House went into committee, he would be prepared to strike out that part of the bill which gave it an ex post factoLord John Russell
 objected to the bill as throwing additional duty on the Lord Chancellor, when he was too much burthened already. He also objected to the bill, as an arbitrary interference with the rights of parents, and as affording a ground for stigmatising parents with the faults of their children.Mr. Wakley
 was opposed to the bill altogether, as giving too much power to the Lord Chancellor, who might transport a child beyond seas, or imprison him for an indefinite period.Mr. Wakley
 said the hon. Member for Finsbury had an entire misconception as to the effect of the bill.Mr. Aglionby
 thought it advisable to postpone the bill till next Session.Mr. Ewart
 then moved that no infant under this bill be sent out of the United Kingdom.Mr. Briscoe
1187 was afraid that it was impossible that any plan could be laid before the House, as several had been given, and none as yet adopted. In reference to the observations of the hon.
1187Mr. E. J. Stanley
 differed wholly from the hon. Member for Walsall, for he thought there should be no specific return of the charge for locomotive power, first, because he thought, that it would be very difficult to obtain from the railroad companies what they did charge for this power, and next, because under that head there were many sums that were not included in the toll, he meant the charge for the different stations, porters, &c, which it was impossible to break up into particulars. He did not see why they should ask any question as to the general management of the railroads, he did not know any reason to suppose that the companies charged more for locomotive power than was necessary, and if they wanted to see a difference in the price of the conveyance of different classes of the community maintained, they must not look too closely into the charge for locomotive power. The charge to the company for the poor man's conveyance was the same as for the rich man's, and if they made the charge to the public uniform, they would raise the price for the carriage of the poor man. Therefore, looking at things practically, he was glad that the noble Lord had confined his clause within its present limits.Lord Granville Somerset
1181 said, that the clause did not enter into the details which the hon. Member required. The House was aware, that he had prepared the clause in pur
1181Lord Seymour
1182 entertained the same opinion. He saw in the observations of the hon. Member for Walsall a great jealousy of railroad companies. But when they looked at the patriotic spirit with which these undertakings had been carried on, when they saw the facilities which they afforded to the public, enabling an
1182Mr. Hindley
1186** said, that in making the motion of which he had given notice he did not mean to cast any reflection on the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests; on the contrary, no one was more anxious than he was to compliment the noble Lord for his general management of the parks. He thought the public were greatly indebted to him for the increased facilities that had been given for admission to
1186**Mr. Baring Wall
 said, that it turned out just as he had expected, there would be no protection to the public by this clause against unlimited charge for locomotive power.Mr. Finch
d.s.ld.ssld.dd.ds. s.,ld., s. dsd.1180s.ls.,ls.,ds.lds.ld.s.l was desirous of expressing his hope, that this clause was so worded as to enable the Board of Trade to obtain from all railway companies such accounts as would show what was the amount charged by them for tolls, and what for locomotive power. It seemed to be the policy, and it certainly was the practice, of all the railways to heap the whole sum into a gross charge, and not to separate the sum asked for toll from that required for locomotive power. In order to illustrate what he intended, he would call the attention of the House to the charge made by the London and Birmingham Railway Company. The charge of the London and Birmingham Railway was, for the conveyance of carriages 3d.s.ld.ssld.dd.ds. s.,ld., s. dsd.1180s.ls.,ls.,ds.lds.ld.s.lMr. Finch
ll. could not but recollect that it was not a long time since the railway proprietors were laughed at, and told that they would never get any return for their money. Having risked their capital, they were fairly entitled to the profits. Suppose there had been a great loss on their speculations, would the public have consented to give them an indemnification? Certainly not; He knew a canal in which the 100ll.Mr. Muntz
 said, that whereas a maximum price existed for tolls for the transit of goods and passengers, the railway companies might charge any sum for locomotive power, and were not limited to any particular price. He thought that the statement of the hon. Member for Walsall went more to that point than any other, and it was one which was well worthy of consideration.Mr. Henry Baring
l.l. observed, that the railway proprietors did not arrogate to themselves any more patriotism than canals or other public companies, but they did not want to be interfered with any more than those other bodies. He recollected, that when he was on the committee for the first railroad, it was strongly opposed by a canal company that had been in existence seventy years, and was paying 33 per cent, upon each share, whilst the 100l.l.Mr. Ewart
1184 thought that any inquisitorial power would cramp the ener-
1184Sir Charles Burrell
 could not suffer any observations as to the individual interests of Members, to be introduced into the debates of the House without making some remarks. It was notorious that he was interested in railway property, but was that a reason why he should not be convinced that it was for the benefit of the proprietors that the public convenience should be promoted at the least possible cost? This being the opinion of all interested in railway property, they were naturally anxious to take part in a matter in which their own welfare, and the advantage of the public were identical. If such a doctrine as that which he had just heard were to be made use of in that House, it must necessarily happen, that when an hon. Member rose in his place to discuss the question of the corn-laws, it would be held that he was to be suspected and looked upon with jealousy, and that his observations were not to be received without apprehension, should he happen to be a landlord. Now, he held that because he was a landlord he would be so much the more anxious that the corn-laws should be placed on a good basis, and accord with the general interests of the community, and instead of this militating against his remarks, it was a ground why his observations should be received with greater attention.Mr. Easthope
significavit1190, before the House went into Committee felt bound to call its attention to the present situation of the individual who had been the cause of the introduction of the bill. A rate had been made by the vestry—it had been paid by the great mass of the inhabitants of the town in which Mr. Thorogood resided, in which there were a great number of Dissenters; none of whom, he believed, with the exception of Mr. Thorogood, had refused the payment of the rate. There was no question as to the validity of the rate, but Mr. Thorogood chose to refuse payment, and for so doing he was summoned before the magistrates, who had the power to summon any party for the non-payment of church-rates, provided the validity of the rate had not been disputed in any ecclesiastical court. Now, what was the conduct of Mr. Thorogood before the magistrates? He did not set up any conscientious ground or scruple to the payment of the rate, but he appeared before the magistrate with a solemn written protest, drawn out in a legal form, giving the magistrates notice that he intended to dispute the legality of the rate.
significavit1190Dr. Nicholl
1193l.,11921191 had no wish to complain of the conduct of the hon. and learned Gentleman for taking his own view of the question. He thought the learned Gentleman had acted perfectly fair in bringing before the House his view of the subject, and stating the grounds on which he preferred his own bill to the present. With regard to the question itself, however, he could not say the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman had convinced him that the hon. and learned Gentleman's bill was the preferable one in this case. Without going into the state of the law, or the original facts of the case, he wished to state how the question at present stood as respected that House. The House in general had been of opinion, that after John Thorogood had been upwards of eighteen months in confinement, being committed for contempt, it was the better way, not only with regard to humanity, but with a view to the general question, that he should be discharged from prison. It was not an opinion at all involving any
1193l.,11921191Lord John Russell
l., thought there could be no objection to give the Ecclesiastical Courts the power to discharge a contumacious person from custody, with the consent of the prosecutor. His own objection to the bill was, that it was unnecessary; for he was of opinion that the ecclesiastical courts had the power already, in common with the courts of law, of discharging a person who was in custody for contempt. However, as the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, and the courts themselves, were of opinion that they had not that power, he was desirous that the bill of his noble Friend should pass. According to the analogies of the law, Thorogood had been long enough in prison to satisfy the debt. If he had been in prison only twelve months for a debt of 20l.,The Attorney General
 was satisfied with the explanation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, understanding that, although he retained the power, he did not intend to interfere with the present system of sending letters by ships.Mr. Warburton
1189 could not allow the bill to pass through without returning his thanks to his right hon. Friend for having produced so unexceptionable a measure. He would take that opportunity of alluding to the Post-office returns of the number of letters which he considered most satisfactory. He had never been one of those who had calculated upon a quadruple and quintuple increase of letters, although he felt convinced that in three or four years the amount of revenue received from the Post-office would be quite equal to what it had been before the alteration. From these returns it appeared that the number of letters posted in London amounted previous to the alteration in the postage to 12,000,000 yearly, and that since the alteration it amounted to 23,000,000, so that in London the number of letters had increased nearly in the proportion in which the rates had been reduced; the average charge on each letter according to the old rate was twopence and one-third of a penny per letter; it was now one penny, and some allowance, in addition, ought to be made for the double and treble letters, the number of which he believed to be considerable. The number of letters in the London post had increased in the proportion of twelve to twenty-three, and if the revenue received from it were taken into account, it would appear that the revenue already received from the London post was equal to what it had been under the old rates. The annual amount of general post letters, including ship letters and packet letters, bad been estimated by the Post-office committee at 75,000,000. The annual amount at present was 127,000,000; therefore the increase fell little short of what had taken place in the London post; and if they estimated the amount of revenue, taking in charges for double and treble letters, he considered
1189Mr. Warburton
1188 was anxious that every letter should pass through the Post-office, but the case he wished to put was, where a vessel was about to sail at twelve o'clock at night, and the Post-office was shut at eight in the evening, it would be a great convenience to the merchants if they were
1188Mr. Thornely
 said, it was extremely inconvenient to the merchants that letters were not allowed to be collected to be sent by ship unless they were previously passed through the Post-office, and instanced the case of the President steamship, which was about to sail that day from Liverpool to New York.Mr. Thornely
 was quite ready to give every facility to the public, but he could not give up the power of prohibiting the collection of letters, as it had been found extremely detrimental to the revenue when the postage was much higher.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought there would be no objection to that arrangement. So long as the Post-office could do the business he thought no other parties ought to be allowed to collect letters, but he would permit merchants to avail themselves of the latest hour for sending those letters on board.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 recommended his learned Friend to adopt the amendment. In all proceedings, although there might be an acquittal, the party accused had a right to a copy of the depositions.The Attorney General
1216 did not think that a parallel case. No object could be gained by refusing a copy of the depositions. The party might attend by himself or his agent, cross-examine the witnesses, and take down an account of everything sworn against him. The amendment would give an authentic instead of a garbled account. He hoped the bill would pass. It was paying a small price for a very great boon. He trusted also that before next Session the 340 courts would be consolidated, their jurisdiction curtailed, and
1216The Attorney General
1218l thought, that the Lords' amendments as to the rating of 101218lMr. J. Grattan
l on the whole was disposed to take these amendments after the five years' struggle which the measure had led to, feeling as he did that the bill in its present shape would break up that most vicious and mischievous system which had so long prevailed in Ireland, though it would fail to build up in the place of the old corporations institutions of a perfectly sound and satisfactory character. He objected to the 10lMr. W. Roche
1219l said, that by the bill, as it originally stood, the Crown was empowered to grant charters to towns upon the petition of a majority of the rated inhabitants. The other House of Parliament, in amending this particular clause, had limited the power of petitioning for a charter to those inhabitants who were rated at 101219lMr. Pigot
 said, that though he did not see any ground for the exemption in favour of the recordership of Dublin, still, considering the spirit in which the amendments had been sent down from the other House, he would put it to the hon. Member for Wicklow not to press the House to a division upon this point. However, after what had already occurred with respect to judges not having seats in that House, and when the Lord-lieutenant should have had sufficient time to take cognizance of the wants of Dublin upon this, to inform himself as to the state of the gaols and the number of prisoners in them, if it were shown that it would be important to have more frequent gaol deliveries, it would then become the duty of Government to look to the matter.Viscount Morpeth
 was highly gratified with the course which had been taken by the noble Lord with respect to those amendments, but must repudiate the insinuation that the Duke of Wellington had been influenced in the course which he adopted with respect to this amendment by any personal feeling towards the right hon. and learned Gentleman. That right hon. and learned Gentleman's judicial conduct was above all imputation, and he would appeal to the noble Lord opposite, and ask whether Government could possibly find fault with it. He must express his approbation of the amendments sent down from the other House.Colonel Perceval
12211220 did not object to the first part of what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Gentleman, but when it was insinuated that the clause as the bill was sent up to the other House was inserted for the purpose of throwing a stigma upon the judicial character of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder of Dublin, he felt himself called upon to disavow that such had been the intention. He was sorry that the hon. and gallant Gentleman should entertain such an opinion, and he likewise regretted that it should be entertained in the other
12211220Lord John Russell
 expressed a hope that the hon. and learned Gentleman would give up the bill for the present Session, for it was now too late for parties interested to make known their objections to it.Mr. Warburton
 said, that that objection had been made on a former evening, and had been disposed of on a division by a majority of about two to one. He hoped, therefore, the hon. Member would not press it.Dr. Nicholl
 had no objection when the case came to a hearing to give the party accused a copy of the depositions on the usual terms.Dr. Nicholl
 said, such was not the case before the grand jury.Dr. Nicholl
 moved the Order of the Day for the further consideration of the report of the Church Discipline Bill.Dr. Nicholl
l1224 considered that the
l1224Mr. R. Gordon
l.l1223l. said, the House would recollect that it had, in the first instance, voted 7,000l.l1223l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 felt great interest for these unfortunate individuals, who, notwithstanding their heroic exertions, and that their character and conduct were untarnished, had nothing to subsist upon but the miserable pittance granted by the House of Commons. He thought it would be discreditable to the House if it refused a relief which would not increase the burthens of the country. He understood that there were only about fifty persons who sought relief, and a great number of old claims had been obliterated. He flattered himself that the House, considering the feeling it generally showed in these cases, and that the Administration also, would think it discreditable to the country to reject a claim for so trifling an additional relief for persons who had not disgraced themselves—persons of the most virtuous character, who had sacrificed their all in the hope of defending their country, the independence of which had been guaranteed by the other powers of Europe. He should hope that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would, after a little reflection, feel no difficulty in conceding the relief desired towards a few persons who had such strong claims upon the liberality and the charity of the House.Sir F. Burdett
1222l.l.l., rose to bring under the consideration of the House the case of certain Polish Refugees who had lately come into this country, and which, he said, he was induced to do solely upon the common principles of humanity, He could not appeal to the justice of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for the nature of the case would not allow him to do so, but he would appeal to his feelings of generosity and charity. It was not now a question whether a miserable pittance should be granted by that House for the support of those individuals who were suffering exile from their country for the sake of its independence. It had long ago been decided that the hand of charity should be extended to them with kindness and consideration. With this view, a vote had been taken in 1834 for 10,0001222l.l.l.,Viscount Sandon
 would take that opportunity to thank her Majesty's Government for bringing in the present bill, but he must at the same time say, that he was afraid that the bill would not effect the benevolent intention of its authors, namely, the release of John Thorogood. The bill left that dependent upon the consent of his prosecutors, and, judging from all that had taken place up to the proceedings at the last meeting at Chelmsford, he feared that this bill would avail nothing to effect the object which the House had in view.Mr. T. Duncombe
l.dslde contumace capiendodsl1256 thought it necessary, in vindication of himself and the proceedings that had taken place in the court over which he presided, that the House should be apprised of the course that had been
l.dslde contumace capiendodsl1256Dr. Lushington
1257dsll. said, the House ought to pronounce a strong and decided opinion upon the course that might be taken by the churchwardens of Chelmsford, as well as with regard to the proceedings of suitors in the ecclesiastical courts. Such a state of things as that mentioned by his right hon. Friend (Dr. Lushington), namely, 1251257dsll.Mr. Hawes
 said, that if the proviso j were struck out, undoubtedly the judge of the Ecclesiastical Court would have absolute power to release prisoners according to his judgment and discretion. This would be a very great concession of power; and although he thought such a power might safely be conceded, in cases where the sum in question was of small amount, yet if they gave such a power in all cases, in testamentary and other cases, no one could foresee the effect. Justice might be wholly evaded in cases of the utmost importance, if they transferred to one court a power wholly incompatible with the powers conferred upon the highest courts in the kingdom.Dr. Lushington
—although he could not consent to the expunction of the proviso, would be very glad to agree to any clause which should provide for the immediate release of Mr. Thorogood, upon the simple payment of the rate with costs. He hoped soon to see a change in the system of church rates altogether.Mr. Briscoe
 begged to ask his right hon. and learned Friend, whether he (Dr. Lushington) could not frame a clause, which, without giving undue power to the court, would effect the object the House had in view?Mr. Ewart
 said, that he did not like to take upon himself to propose an alteration of that nature, without communicating with the Government. It might be done by adding these words to the bill, "in cases where the amount sued for, together with costs, has been paid into court." That would give power to release in the present instance, and would still preserve the law as it stood. The only difference would be, to give the court the power of release without the consent of the churchwardens.Dr. Lushington
 suggested, that it would be expedient to postpone the question till to-morrow. He thought that in the case of Mr. Thorogood, the amount of punishment had gone as far as the fault deserved, and he therefore hoped some means might be adopted by which he could be turned out of prison.Lord G. Somerset
—he would take the third reading of the bill then, and the further proceedings might be adjourned till to-morrow.Mr. F. Maule
12781277 thought the motion might be useful, and it was creditable to the noble Lord to have proposed it. Its chief utility, however, would be not merely to bring to light facts connected with the bad condition of the working classes, but that it would lead to active and general inquiry as to the causes of that condition, and of the evils to which the noble Lord had pointed; and as the circumstances influencing the character and condition of the great body of the working classes were connected with the security, happiness, and prosperity of the country, no inquiry could be more important. So far he valued the motion of the noble Lord; and it would not be to qualify what had
12781277Mr. Villiers
 said, that the operation of the bill was not confined to the children of vicious parents, but might be made to apply to the children of honest and industrious parents. They legislated in that House very differently for the rich and for the poor. What, however, he objected to in this bill was, that it afforded no protection for the religious education of the children, but, on the contrary, he feared that it would be made an instrument of proselytism. He should certainly oppose the bill by every means in his power.Mr. Langdale
 said, he should throw the responsibility of rejecting the bill upon the House, because he conceived that this, above all other measures which had ever been introduced with the same object, was calculated to produce benefit to the poorer classes. He was ready to assent to the amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tynemouth.Mr. Fox Maule
1276 could not proceed to state his opinion with respect to this motion without expressing, as an individual, his grateful thanks to the noble Lord for the manner in which he had introduced this subject, and for the appeal which he had made on behalf of those children, in language which he knew not whether to admire most for its simplicity or the kindliness of feeling which it evinced. So far from opposing this motion, her Majesty's Government would give every assistance to the noble Lord in carrying out the object which he had in view. It was possible that in that House some Members might object that the Government were eager to seize the opportunity of issuing another commission; but he could assure the House that not only should the whole investigation of the subject be most fully and fairly Conducted, but every means should be taken to use the present force at the disposal of the Government so as to make the inquiry as economical as possible. He agreed with the noble Lord that if they looked to the permanent interests of this country, they must pay especial regard to the physical and moral condition of the young amongst the lower classes. Since the last census, he believed that the population of this country had increased by about one-third; and those increasing numbers ought to warn them more especially that, within the narrow limits of this island, the only means of
1276Mr. Fox Maule
"That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to direct an inquiry to be made into the employment of the children of the poorer classes in mines and collieries, and in the various branches of trade and manufacture in which numbers of children work together, not being included in the provisions of the acts for regulating the employment of children and young persons in mills and factories, and to collect information as to the ages at which they are employed, the number of hours they are engaged in work, the time allowed each day for meals, and as to the actual state, condition, and treatment of such children, and as to the effects of such employment, both with regard to their morals and their bodily health."1274"Open your eyes, (says the Prince Archbishop,) and behold; parents and masters demand of these young plants to produce fruit in the season of blossoms. By excessive and prolonged labour they exhaust the rising sap, caring but little that they leave them to vegetate and perish on a withered and tottering stem. Poor little children! may the laws hasten to extend their protection over your existence, and may posterity read with astonishment, on the front of this age, so satisfied with itself, that in these days of progress and discovery, there was needed an iron law to forbid the murder of children by excessive labour."1273"The most prominent evil, (says the writer,) is the excitement to habits of intoxication. The heated atmosphere in which they work, and the profuse perspiration, occasion a burning thirst; and the mouth and throat are often so parched, as to cause a very distressing sensation; they drink excessively: on leaving their highly-heated workshops, they feel disagreeably chilled, and relieve it by taking spirits. A tendency to drunkenness is thus produced; the drunkenness, gambling, and vicious habits of the men, are imitated by too many of the children."1272"I have now, (says my informant), made more minute inquiry into this business of wholesale demoralization. I have examined the relieving-officer of the board of guardians. He assures me, that he has rarely known an instance of children in a family turning out respectable members of society, who have been brought up in pin-shops; that the board of guardians have been obliged to give up the sending children from the poor-house to the pin-works, on account of the invariable consequences of it—the entire corruption of the children; and that children, once contaminated in these works, very rarely are found worth having in factories or elsewhere."1271"The proprietor of a large cotton-mill told
1271"When the cotton trade is brisk, we find the demand for young persons to set cards so great, that hands are with difficulty obtained for woollen-mills in this neighbourhood."1270"These deformities cannot allow the Legislature to remain indifferent; they attest the deep and painful mischiefs, they reveal the intolerable nature of individual suffering, they enfeeble the country in respect of its capacity for military operations, and impoverish it in regard to the works of peace. We should blush for agriculture, if in her operations she brought, at the age adapted to labour, so
1270"There were found, (he says) for 10,000 capable of military service, in Marne 10,309 incapable; in the Lower Seine 11,990 incapable; in L'Eure 14,451 incapable.""We were desirous of ascertaining the amount of difference in force and physical power between parties which had respectively attained the age of manhood in the parts of France most devoted to agriculture, and those where manufacturing industry is more generally diffused. The councils of revision in the recruiting department exhibited the following facts:—For 10,000 young men capable of military service, there were rejected as infirm or otherwise unfit in body, 4,029 in the departments most agricultural; for 10,000 in the departments most manufacturing there were rejected, 9,930.""What is the state of morality, (says the document, among the young children employed in the workshops?)—None at all; everywhere there is want. It is a curious fact, (the reporter adds), that the immorality seems to be greatest in those very places where the children are admitted into the workshops at the earliest ages."1269"Many children (he writes), are only six years of age; one-half of them, he believes, are under nine; the labour of children is not only harder, but of longer duration. During night-work the men are obliged to shake their teerers to keep them awake, and they are not seldom aroused by blows. This work is very fatiguing to the eyes; their sight consequently fails at a very early age. They have to clean the blocks; this is done at the margin of the brook, on which the works stand. I often see these little creatures standing up to the calves of their legs in the water, and this, even in the severest weather, after being kept all day in rooms heated to a most oppressive degree. The injurious effect of this close and heated atmosphere is much aggravated by the effluvia of the colours; these are in most cases metallic salts, and ‥‥ very noxious. The atmosphere of the room is consequently continually loaded with poisonous gases of different kinds."1268"Being frequently detained in his counting-house late at night, till twelve or one o'clock, he has often, in going home in the depth of
1268"At twelve o'clock of a winter's night, in large numbers, sometimes having to walk a mile or two to the works. When they are twelving, the first set goes at twelve o'clock in the day, and works till twelve at night. Sometimes they do not send away those who have worked from twelve in the day to twelve at night, but let them sleep a few hours in the works, and then set them on again. There is no interval for meals in the night set, except breakfast, the children taking something with them j and even their breakfast is taken at the works. The custom of taking their meals in the works is very injurious, for they do not wash their hands, and they consequently sometimes swallow deleterious colouring matter.""It is by no means uncommon for children to work as teer-boys as early as six and seven years of age, and sometimes as young as five. Children of six, seven, and eight years old, may be seen going to work at"—"These children are collected in rooms varying in size, height, and ventilation; the filthy state and foul atmosphere of some of these places is very injurious to the health of the children—they are filled to a most unwholesome extent. No education during the week, and very few go to a Sunday-school. I can only tell you, that from my own observation of the effect of the trade as now carried on, I do not hesitate to say, that it is the cause of utter ruin, temporal and spiritual, to eight out of every ten children that are employed in it."1267"Knowing (says he), the cruelties that are sometime practised, in order to keep those infants at work, I was not surprised at being
1267"If he continues, with the employment to pay wages, and keep the loan hanging over the head of the parents, who do not refuse to take the wages, yet cannot repay the loan, the master may keep possession of the child as his slave, for an indefinite time. This is done to a great extent; the relieving-officer has tried in vain to break through the iniquitous practice; but it seems that the magistrates have not power to do it."bonâ fidesd"You also know (says my informant), the practice of the masters in securing the services of these little slaves. One man in this town employs from four to five hundred of them. A very ordinary practice is, for the master to send for the parents or guardians, offer them an advance of money, an irresistible temptation, and then extract a bond, which the magistrates enforce, that the repayment of the loan shall be effected through the labour of the child. A child of tender age can rarely earn more than from 9bonâ fidesd"Eye-sight is much affected, the overseers of the poor have sent many cases of this nature to the eye institution of Manchester." "Each child (reports Mr. Commissioner Tufnell), is in a position continually bent in the form of the letter C, its head being about eight inches from the table. My inquiries (he adds), fully corroborated the account of its being the practice of parents to borrow sums of money on the credit of their children's labour, and then let them out to pin heading till it is paid. One woman had let out both her children for ten months, and another had sold her's for a year.""It is a sedentary employment, requiring great stress upon the eyes, and a constant motion of the foot, finger, and eyes."1266"I have seen the children much beaten ten times a-day, so that with some the blood comes, many a time; none of the children where I work can read or write.""It is very unwholesome work; we do it near the wire-works, and the smell of the aquafortis, through which the wire passes is a very great nuisance. Children go at a very early age, at five years old, and work from six in the morning till eight at night. There are as many girls as boys.""Labour very hard, nine hours a-day regularly, sometimes twelve, sometimes above thirteen hours; stop two or three minutes to eat; some days nothing at all to eat, sometimes work and eat together; have worked a whole day together without stopping to eat; a good many children in the mines, some under six years of age; sometimes can't eat, owing to the dust, and damp, and badness of the air; sometimes it is as hot as an oven, sometimes so hot as to melt a candle. A vast many girls in the pits go down just the same as the boys, by ladders or baskets; the girls wear breeches; beaten the same as the boys; many bastards produced in the pits; a good deal of fighting amongst them; much crookedness caused by the labour; work by candlelight; exposed to terrible accidents; work in very contracted spaces; children are plagued with sore feet and gatherings." "I cannot but think, (says one witness), that many nights they do not sleep with a whole skin, for their backs get cut and bruised with knocking against the mine, it is so low. It is wet under foot; the water oftentimes runs down from the roof; many lives lost in various ways; and many severely injured by burning; workers knocked up after fifty." "I cannot much err, (says Mr. Commissioner Tuffnell), in coming to the conclusion, both from what I saw, and the evidence of witnesses given on oath above, that it must appear to every impartial judge of the two occupations, that the hardest labour, in the worst room, in the worst conducted factory, is less hard, less cruel, and less demoralizing, than the labour of the best of coal mines."1265"Children are employed from five years old and upwards; their length of labour extends from five or six o'clock in the morning to eight at night.""A great proportion of the population of the county of Leicester is employed in the frame-work-knitting; of this number more than one-half, probably two-thirds, are young persons between the ages of six and eighteen; that they work an inordinate number of hours daily; that the hours of work of the young persons are, for the most part, commensurate with those of the older class; that the occupation is pursued in very low and confined shops and rooms, and that the hours of labour are sixteen in the day. With regard to the state of health of men, women, and children employed, their habits of work and subsistence are more destructive of health, comfort, cleanliness, and general well being, than any state of employment into which I have had at present an opportunity of inquiring. Mr. Macaulay, a surgeon of great talent and experience at Leicester, observed to me, that scarcely any of them of long-standing in the trade were quite sound in constitution.""They leave their homes at an early age, and they spend the surplus of their wages in smoking, drinking, and quarrelling. Boys of thirteen will not unfrequently boast that they have taken to smoking before they were twelve. Early marriages are very frequent They take their wives from the coke hearths, the mine, and coal-yard, having had no opportunities of acquiring any better principles or improved habits of domestic economy, and being in all other respects less instructed than their husbands.""Hence the custom of taking their children of seven years old, to sit for eight and ten hours a day in the mine; it is certain from the time he (the child) enters the mine, he learns nothing more there than to be a miner."1264"Parents, (says the Inspector), if they send their children at all to school, seldom do so for many months at a time. They are liable to be away whenever the father has not earned as much as usual, or has spent more. They think instruction of any kind very little necessary for the girls. The boys are taken into the coal or iron mine at eight or nine years old.""Every weaver of Brussels carpeting must have an assistant, called a drawer, who is usually a boy or girl; few are taken under ten years of age; the working hours are extremely irregular; this irregularity tells very severely on the drawers, who must attend the weaver at whatever time he is at work; they are often called up at three and four o'clock in the morning, and kept on for sixteen or eighteen hours.""The plate-makers of most works employ boys, often their own, to be their assistants; their occupation is to remove the plates to the drying houses, which are heated to 120 degrees; and in this occupation, in which the boy is kept on the run, he is laboriously employed from six o'clock in the morning till seven in the evening, excepting the intervals of breakfast and dinner. (Again), In other works some of the children called cutters, in attendance upon the printer, appear to me to suffer from a prolonged attendance at the factory. They are compelled to attend in the morning an hour before the printer, to light fires and prepare his apartment, and often wait in the evening for some time after the rest have departed, to prepare for the ensuing day. (Again), When there is a fair demand, the plate-makers and their assistants, work three or four nights per week till ten, and sometimes as late as eleven."1263"Children are employed at eleven, and oftentimes younger. They go to work at any time of the day or night, when they have a deal of work. The same children labour all night for two or three nights in a week. Their opportunities for education very few, except in a Sunday school.""Children are employed twelve hours a-day. They go as early as seven years of age. The smell in the room is very strong and offensive. They are employed in spinning the twist tobacco; in the country, the children work more hours in the day, being frequently until nine and ten o'clock at night. Their opportunities for education are almost none, and their appearance altogether sickly.""Earthenware, porcelain, hosiery, pin-making, needle-making, manufacture of arms, nail-making, card-setting, draw-boy-weaving, iron-works, forges, &c., iron foundries, glass trade, collieries, calico-printing, tobacco manufacture, button factories, bleaching, and. paper-mills."That great ones may enjoy their state.""Petty rogues submit to fate,1262ipsâ etiam pace sœvumopus adgredior, opimum casibus1261*** spoke as follows:"That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to direct an inquiry to be made into the employment of the children of the poorer classes in mines and collieries, and in the various branches of trade and manufacture in which numbers of children work together, not being included in the provisions of the acts for regulating the employment of children and young persons in mills and factories, and to collect information as to the ages at which they are employed, the number of hours they are engaged in work, the time allowed each day for meals, and as to the actual state, condition, and treatment of such children, and as to the effects of such employment, both with regard to their morals and their bodily health."1274"Open your eyes, (says the Prince Archbishop,) and behold; parents and masters demand of these young plants to produce fruit in the season of blossoms. By excessive and prolonged labour they exhaust the rising sap, caring but little that they leave them to vegetate and perish on a withered and tottering stem. Poor little children! may the laws hasten to extend their protection over your existence, and may posterity read with astonishment, on the front of this age, so satisfied with itself, that in these days of progress and discovery, there was needed an iron law to forbid the murder of children by excessive labour."1273"The most prominent evil, (says the writer,) is the excitement to habits of intoxication. The heated atmosphere in which they work, and the profuse perspiration, occasion a burning thirst; and the mouth and throat are often so parched, as to cause a very distressing sensation; they drink excessively: on leaving their highly-heated workshops, they feel disagreeably chilled, and relieve it by taking spirits. A tendency to drunkenness is thus produced; the drunkenness, gambling, and vicious habits of the men, are imitated by too many of the children."1272"I have now, (says my informant), made more minute inquiry into this business of wholesale demoralization. I have examined the relieving-officer of the board of guardians. He assures me, that he has rarely known an instance of children in a family turning out respectable members of society, who have been brought up in pin-shops; that the board of guardians have been obliged to give up the sending children from the poor-house to the pin-works, on account of the invariable consequences of it—the entire corruption of the children; and that children, once contaminated in these works, very rarely are found worth having in factories or elsewhere."1271"The proprietor of a large cotton-mill told
1271"When the cotton trade is brisk, we find the demand for young persons to set cards so great, that hands are with difficulty obtained for woollen-mills in this neighbourhood."1270"These deformities cannot allow the Legislature to remain indifferent; they attest the deep and painful mischiefs, they reveal the intolerable nature of individual suffering, they enfeeble the country in respect of its capacity for military operations, and impoverish it in regard to the works of peace. We should blush for agriculture, if in her operations she brought, at the age adapted to labour, so
1270"There were found, (he says) for 10,000 capable of military service, in Marne 10,309 incapable; in the Lower Seine 11,990 incapable; in L'Eure 14,451 incapable.""We were desirous of ascertaining the amount of difference in force and physical power between parties which had respectively attained the age of manhood in the parts of France most devoted to agriculture, and those where manufacturing industry is more generally diffused. The councils of revision in the recruiting department exhibited the following facts:—For 10,000 young men capable of military service, there were rejected as infirm or otherwise unfit in body, 4,029 in the departments most agricultural; for 10,000 in the departments most manufacturing there were rejected, 9,930.""What is the state of morality, (says the document, among the young children employed in the workshops?)—None at all; everywhere there is want. It is a curious fact, (the reporter adds), that the immorality seems to be greatest in those very places where the children are admitted into the workshops at the earliest ages."1269"Many children (he writes), are only six years of age; one-half of them, he believes, are under nine; the labour of children is not only harder, but of longer duration. During night-work the men are obliged to shake their teerers to keep them awake, and they are not seldom aroused by blows. This work is very fatiguing to the eyes; their sight consequently fails at a very early age. They have to clean the blocks; this is done at the margin of the brook, on which the works stand. I often see these little creatures standing up to the calves of their legs in the water, and this, even in the severest weather, after being kept all day in rooms heated to a most oppressive degree. The injurious effect of this close and heated atmosphere is much aggravated by the effluvia of the colours; these are in most cases metallic salts, and ‥‥ very noxious. The atmosphere of the room is consequently continually loaded with poisonous gases of different kinds."1268"Being frequently detained in his counting-house late at night, till twelve or one o'clock, he has often, in going home in the depth of
1268"At twelve o'clock of a winter's night, in large numbers, sometimes having to walk a mile or two to the works. When they are twelving, the first set goes at twelve o'clock in the day, and works till twelve at night. Sometimes they do not send away those who have worked from twelve in the day to twelve at night, but let them sleep a few hours in the works, and then set them on again. There is no interval for meals in the night set, except breakfast, the children taking something with them j and even their breakfast is taken at the works. The custom of taking their meals in the works is very injurious, for they do not wash their hands, and they consequently sometimes swallow deleterious colouring matter.""It is by no means uncommon for children to work as teer-boys as early as six and seven years of age, and sometimes as young as five. Children of six, seven, and eight years old, may be seen going to work at"—"These children are collected in rooms varying in size, height, and ventilation; the filthy state and foul atmosphere of some of these places is very injurious to the health of the children—they are filled to a most unwholesome extent. No education during the week, and very few go to a Sunday-school. I can only tell you, that from my own observation of the effect of the trade as now carried on, I do not hesitate to say, that it is the cause of utter ruin, temporal and spiritual, to eight out of every ten children that are employed in it."1267"Knowing (says he), the cruelties that are sometime practised, in order to keep those infants at work, I was not surprised at being
1267"If he continues, with the employment to pay wages, and keep the loan hanging over the head of the parents, who do not refuse to take the wages, yet cannot repay the loan, the master may keep possession of the child as his slave, for an indefinite time. This is done to a great extent; the relieving-officer has tried in vain to break through the iniquitous practice; but it seems that the magistrates have not power to do it."bonâ fidesd"You also know (says my informant), the practice of the masters in securing the services of these little slaves. One man in this town employs from four to five hundred of them. A very ordinary practice is, for the master to send for the parents or guardians, offer them an advance of money, an irresistible temptation, and then extract a bond, which the magistrates enforce, that the repayment of the loan shall be effected through the labour of the child. A child of tender age can rarely earn more than from 9bonâ fidesd"Eye-sight is much affected, the overseers of the poor have sent many cases of this nature to the eye institution of Manchester." "Each child (reports Mr. Commissioner Tufnell), is in a position continually bent in the form of the letter C, its head being about eight inches from the table. My inquiries (he adds), fully corroborated the account of its being the practice of parents to borrow sums of money on the credit of their children's labour, and then let them out to pin heading till it is paid. One woman had let out both her children for ten months, and another had sold her's for a year.""It is a sedentary employment, requiring great stress upon the eyes, and a constant motion of the foot, finger, and eyes."1266"I have seen the children much beaten ten times a-day, so that with some the blood comes, many a time; none of the children where I work can read or write.""It is very unwholesome work; we do it near the wire-works, and the smell of the aquafortis, through which the wire passes is a very great nuisance. Children go at a very early age, at five years old, and work from six in the morning till eight at night. There are as many girls as boys.""Labour very hard, nine hours a-day regularly, sometimes twelve, sometimes above thirteen hours; stop two or three minutes to eat; some days nothing at all to eat, sometimes work and eat together; have worked a whole day together without stopping to eat; a good many children in the mines, some under six years of age; sometimes can't eat, owing to the dust, and damp, and badness of the air; sometimes it is as hot as an oven, sometimes so hot as to melt a candle. A vast many girls in the pits go down just the same as the boys, by ladders or baskets; the girls wear breeches; beaten the same as the boys; many bastards produced in the pits; a good deal of fighting amongst them; much crookedness caused by the labour; work by candlelight; exposed to terrible accidents; work in very contracted spaces; children are plagued with sore feet and gatherings." "I cannot but think, (says one witness), that many nights they do not sleep with a whole skin, for their backs get cut and bruised with knocking against the mine, it is so low. It is wet under foot; the water oftentimes runs down from the roof; many lives lost in various ways; and many severely injured by burning; workers knocked up after fifty." "I cannot much err, (says Mr. Commissioner Tuffnell), in coming to the conclusion, both from what I saw, and the evidence of witnesses given on oath above, that it must appear to every impartial judge of the two occupations, that the hardest labour, in the worst room, in the worst conducted factory, is less hard, less cruel, and less demoralizing, than the labour of the best of coal mines."1265"Children are employed from five years old and upwards; their length of labour extends from five or six o'clock in the morning to eight at night.""A great proportion of the population of the county of Leicester is employed in the frame-work-knitting; of this number more than one-half, probably two-thirds, are young persons between the ages of six and eighteen; that they work an inordinate number of hours daily; that the hours of work of the young persons are, for the most part, commensurate with those of the older class; that the occupation is pursued in very low and confined shops and rooms, and that the hours of labour are sixteen in the day. With regard to the state of health of men, women, and children employed, their habits of work and subsistence are more destructive of health, comfort, cleanliness, and general well being, than any state of employment into which I have had at present an opportunity of inquiring. Mr. Macaulay, a surgeon of great talent and experience at Leicester, observed to me, that scarcely any of them of long-standing in the trade were quite sound in constitution.""They leave their homes at an early age, and they spend the surplus of their wages in smoking, drinking, and quarrelling. Boys of thirteen will not unfrequently boast that they have taken to smoking before they were twelve. Early marriages are very frequent They take their wives from the coke hearths, the mine, and coal-yard, having had no opportunities of acquiring any better principles or improved habits of domestic economy, and being in all other respects less instructed than their husbands.""Hence the custom of taking their children of seven years old, to sit for eight and ten hours a day in the mine; it is certain from the time he (the child) enters the mine, he learns nothing more there than to be a miner."1264"Parents, (says the Inspector), if they send their children at all to school, seldom do so for many months at a time. They are liable to be away whenever the father has not earned as much as usual, or has spent more. They think instruction of any kind very little necessary for the girls. The boys are taken into the coal or iron mine at eight or nine years old.""Every weaver of Brussels carpeting must have an assistant, called a drawer, who is usually a boy or girl; few are taken under ten years of age; the working hours are extremely irregular; this irregularity tells very severely on the drawers, who must attend the weaver at whatever time he is at work; they are often called up at three and four o'clock in the morning, and kept on for sixteen or eighteen hours.""The plate-makers of most works employ boys, often their own, to be their assistants; their occupation is to remove the plates to the drying houses, which are heated to 120 degrees; and in this occupation, in which the boy is kept on the run, he is laboriously employed from six o'clock in the morning till seven in the evening, excepting the intervals of breakfast and dinner. (Again), In other works some of the children called cutters, in attendance upon the printer, appear to me to suffer from a prolonged attendance at the factory. They are compelled to attend in the morning an hour before the printer, to light fires and prepare his apartment, and often wait in the evening for some time after the rest have departed, to prepare for the ensuing day. (Again), When there is a fair demand, the plate-makers and their assistants, work three or four nights per week till ten, and sometimes as late as eleven."1263"Children are employed at eleven, and oftentimes younger. They go to work at any time of the day or night, when they have a deal of work. The same children labour all night for two or three nights in a week. Their opportunities for education very few, except in a Sunday school.""Children are employed twelve hours a-day. They go as early as seven years of age. The smell in the room is very strong and offensive. They are employed in spinning the twist tobacco; in the country, the children work more hours in the day, being frequently until nine and ten o'clock at night. Their opportunities for education are almost none, and their appearance altogether sickly.""Earthenware, porcelain, hosiery, pin-making, needle-making, manufacture of arms, nail-making, card-setting, draw-boy-weaving, iron-works, forges, &c., iron foundries, glass trade, collieries, calico-printing, tobacco manufacture, button factories, bleaching, and. paper-mills."That great ones may enjoy their state.""Petty rogues submit to fate,1262ipsâ etiam pace sœvumopus adgredior, opimum casibus1261***Lord Ashley
 was of opinion that this bill was calculated to carry the principle of punishment beyond that point which was contemplated by the law. He conceived that great injustice would be done to poor persons living in distant districts, who would have no means of resisting any steps which were taken to put its enactments into operation.Lord Granville Somerset
1259 said, that before this bill could come into operation, the civil rights of the infant must be forfeited by a conviction, and the court might extend that forfeiture to parental control. There was no novelty in the present measure. Several charitable institutions, by the common consent, and for the benefit of society, were, without the sanction of law, doing what this bill proposed to give the sanction of law to. It was rather too late, therefore, to raise an unfounded prejudice against this individual measure—a measure which was founded upon the whole
1259Mr. Hawes
 hoped that the bill would be allowed to stand over to the next Session of Parliament, because he thought that it must be admitted, that it was not in a fit condition to be adopted. The bill was so opposed in every respect to justice and humanity, that he should feel it his duty to join the hon. Member for Knares-borough to offer every opposition to it in his power.Mr. Briscoe
ssssssss1279 said, he came from a part of the country where the people had ade-
ssssssss1279Dr. Nicholl
1275 seconded the motion. He felt grateful to the noble Lord for the exertions he had made to ameliorate the condition of our juvenile population employed in manufactories. He did not think there was any necessity for overworking
1275Mr. Brotherton
 concurred in the remarks of his hon. Friend who had just sat down. No man could hear the statements of the noble Lord without regretting that, in a Christian country, such a picture could be drawn. But he wished the noble Lord to go to the causes of the evils he had described. One was the want of proper remuneration for the labour of the parents. If parents could earn enough, the common feelings of humanity would prevent their employing their children as they now did. But did the noble Lord recollect that he was himself one of those who kept restrictions on the food of man, who limited the supply of bread to the working classes? The noble Lord complained of their poverty, but seemed to think that the exclusion of cheap corn did them no harm. He hoped that the result of this inquiry would be to induce the Government to come forward early in the next Session with a bill for the repeal of those starvation laws.Mr. Hume
1255 said, he would take that opportunity of drawing the attention of the House to the conduct of that House, and to the state and feelings of the people. He exceedingly regretted the manner in which the most numerously signed petition ever presented to Parliament—that for the Charter—had been treated. Had it not been treated in that manner, he thought the present discontents would not have existed. The Reform Bill had disappointed the people. The democratic prin-
1255Mr. Hume
 said, that the bill might operate cruelly to both parents and children in certain cases. He objected to power being given to the Lord Chancellor, or any other authority, to deprive parents of the care of their children without their own consent.Mr. Estcourt
 opposed the motion. The object of this bill was, to transfer from the hands of parents to the care of a benevolent society, children who should have been convicted of crime. The bill provided, that the transfer should take place under the sanction of the Lord Chancellor; but he did not consider this a sufficient safeguard. If such a proceeding were adopted at all, it ought to be done with the sanction, and upon the responsibility of the Secretary for the Home Department; in which case that House might, by asking questions or otherwise, interpose a useful check upon the proceedings of the society.Mr. Ewart
 rose to call the attention of the House to the Report of the Select Committee on the health of towns, when—Mr. Mackinnon
 said, that the children of vicious parents would be greatly benefitted, if not altogether saved, by means of such a bill as the present, which he thought would improve the morality of the country.Sir C. Burrell
 said, that some objections to the meaaure might be got rid of, if the judge who should try the child should have power to order that, after the period of confinement, the child should, for a certain period, be placed under the care of this society. For his own part, however, he must say that he would prefer an enquiry before the Lord Chancellor; but he thought it desirable to introduce a clause into the bill to prevent these children from being subtracted from the jurisdiction of the Lord Chancellor without special notice and application.Sir C. Grey
1281 rose cordially to second the motion. There could be no doubt that it was essential that a bill of this sort should be passed; at the same time he owed to himself, and to the question of law, to state that he was of the clearest and most confident opinion that the objections taken to the bill in the House of Lords were altogether unfounded. There was not the smallest pretence for saying that the bill would have the operation apprehended. The only object of the bill was to prevent persons who
1281The Attorney General
d.s.d.s.d.s.12831282"That as regards the proceedings against John Thorogood, which have been hitherto carried on by the churchwardens of Chelmsford, on their own judgment and responsibility, the thanks of this meeting are eminently due to them for the judicious, straightforward,
1282 had an amendment to propose, but first he would explain to the noble Lord how this matter stood. Yesterday he stated to the House that in consequence of the vindictive conduct of certain parties at Chelmsford, as shown at a meeting of the churchwardens and others, with the rector in the chair, it was clear that the House could not trust those parties with any discretionary power as regarded the bill before the House. It appeared that at a meeting on Monday last, certain resolutions were passed by the parishioners of Chelmsford, the last of which was as follows:—
d.s.d.s.d.s.12831282"That as regards the proceedings against John Thorogood, which have been hitherto carried on by the churchwardens of Chelmsford, on their own judgment and responsibility, the thanks of this meeting are eminently due to them for the judicious, straightforward,
1282Mr. T. Duncombe
12851284 said, he must consider the proposition of the hon. Gentleman with reference to what he proposed subsequently to introduce into the bill, and to decide whether or not the whole proposition ought to be adopted. The hon. Gentleman proposed that the bill, instead Of being general, should have reference solely to cases of contempt for non-payment of church-rates. This pro-
12851284Lord John Russell
 said, that the people of Chelmsford, and the churchwardens, had great reason to complain of the feelings of vindictiveness and severity that had been attributed to them. The churchwardens were bound to enforce the rate, in vindication of the law of the country. In doing this they had been put to heavy expenses, and now all they required was, that the rate, together with the costs to which they had been put, should be paid. He believed that the churchwardens and inhabitants of Chelmsford would be very happy if Mr. Thorogood were released from prison, provided the law were complied with.Mr. Bramston
l.d.s.1286d.s. said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had complained that his hon. Friend had attributed to those gentlemen of Chelmsford, whom the hon. Gentleman defended, great severity in the course they had pursued with reference to Mr. John Thorogood. Yes, the hon. Gentleman said, and by his cheer confirmed the statement, that these Chelmsford gentlemen would be most happy if Mr. Thorogood were to be released to-morrow. But their happiness did not go to the extent of remitting the 5l.d.s.1286d.s.Mr. Easthope
bonâ fide said, that it was absurd to talk of conscience in a ease of this sort. If Mr. Thorogood had been actuated by conscientious motives, he had nothing to do but go before the magistrates, and, like the Quakers, allow his goods to be distrained. He did no such thing. He went before the magistrates and gave notice, that he would dispute the validity of the rate, and the magistrates, supposing that he did bonâ fideDr. Nicholl
 would not press the first portion of his amendment, but would persevere in the amendment for striking out the proviso.Mr. Duncombe
l.1287"Provided always, that in cases of sub-
l.1287 said, that as he admitted, that there would probably be some difficulty in effecting the release of John Thorogood under this bill, and as he had stated his reasons for not agreeing to the amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury, he should propose the insertion of words calculated to meet the case. As it might require some consideration, however, he should first move, that they be printed. The words were:—
l.1287"Provided always, that in cases of sub-
l.1287Lord John Russell
primâ facie1290"That, in consequence of the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench, your petitioner was consigned to the custody of the governor of York Castle, on Tuesday the 19th day of May, at ten o'clock at night. That your petitioner was first deprived of his money and a few newspapers, and, after being examined by a physician, was conducted to a stone cell, seven and a half feet long and four feet ten inches wide, about eight feet high, the door up to petitioner's chin, and only wide enough to admit petitioner sideways. An iron bedstead, not near the width of petitioner, a thin flock bed, not so long as petitioner, and the usual number of blankets, with a horse rug for a counterpane, were then shown to petitioner, which, with a black pot, composed the furniture, &c."12891288prima facie"That an humble address he presented to her Majesty, that she will be graciously pleased to direct that a commission may be issued to inquire into the allegations contained in the petition of Mr. Feargus O'Connor, presented to this House on the 1st day of June last, and into what has been and now is his treatment in York Castle; also to inquire into what has been and now is the treatment of prisoners confined under sentences for writing and publishing seditious libels, or for uttering seditious words, or for attending seditious meetings, in the gaols or houses of correction of York, Wakefield, Northallerton, and Beverley." rose to move:—
primâ facie1290"That, in consequence of the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench, your petitioner was consigned to the custody of the governor of York Castle, on Tuesday the 19th day of May, at ten o'clock at night. That your petitioner was first deprived of his money and a few newspapers, and, after being examined by a physician, was conducted to a stone cell, seven and a half feet long and four feet ten inches wide, about eight feet high, the door up to petitioner's chin, and only wide enough to admit petitioner sideways. An iron bedstead, not near the width of petitioner, a thin flock bed, not so long as petitioner, and the usual number of blankets, with a horse rug for a counterpane, were then shown to petitioner, which, with a black pot, composed the furniture, &c."12891288prima facie"That an humble address he presented to her Majesty, that she will be graciously pleased to direct that a commission may be issued to inquire into the allegations contained in the petition of Mr. Feargus O'Connor, presented to this House on the 1st day of June last, and into what has been and now is his treatment in York Castle; also to inquire into what has been and now is the treatment of prisoners confined under sentences for writing and publishing seditious libels, or for uttering seditious words, or for attending seditious meetings, in the gaols or houses of correction of York, Wakefield, Northallerton, and Beverley."Mr. Aglionby
129412931292"Or any seditious libel tending to excite his Majesty's subjects to do any act which, if done, would by the existing law be treason or felony; or any libel in which it shall be affirmed or maintained that his Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal and Commons, in Parliament assembled, has not, or ought not to have full power and authority to make laws
1292"Tending to bring into hatred or contempt the person of his Majesty, his heirs, or successors, or the Regent, or the Government and constitution, as by law established, or either House of Parliament, or to excite his Majesty's subjects to attempt the alteration of any matter in Church or State, as by law established, otherwise than by lawful means;"see1291 did not feel that it would be convenient to revive the whole of the discussions which took place on previous occasions on this subject, and what had now been stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman respecting Mr. Feargus O'Connor was substantially the same as had been stated on former occasions, when the House decided by a very large majority against such a motion. The present motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman was founded on the allegations made by Mr. Feargus O'Connor as to his treatment; immediately on complaint being made to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, he directed that the treatment of Mr. F. O'Connor should be altered, and he did not understand that the hon. and learned Gentleman found fault, unless with respect to some of the phrases used on the subject, with the treatment now experienced by that person. The question was, whether or not the justices of Yorkshire had complied with these directions; an inspector of prisons was on the spot at the time, and he was directed to investigate the subject; and on his doing so, he stated that he was satisfied that the directions of the Secretary of State had been complied with, and that the magistrates did not enforce the prison regulations against Mr. Feargus O'Connor. If the House was disposed to think that those who had the regulation of the prison had altered or suppressed the facts of the case, there might be ground for further inquiry; but it should be recollected that if this were discovered it would be instantly followed with the dismissal of the parties: they had then the declarations of Mr. F. O'Connor, but he did not think that they were so much to be relied on, or ought to
129412931292"Or any seditious libel tending to excite his Majesty's subjects to do any act which, if done, would by the existing law be treason or felony; or any libel in which it shall be affirmed or maintained that his Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal and Commons, in Parliament assembled, has not, or ought not to have full power and authority to make laws
1292"Tending to bring into hatred or contempt the person of his Majesty, his heirs, or successors, or the Regent, or the Government and constitution, as by law established, or either House of Parliament, or to excite his Majesty's subjects to attempt the alteration of any matter in Church or State, as by law established, otherwise than by lawful means;"see1291Lord John Russell
12961295 could not help complaining of the language which the noble Lord had thought proper to use in reference to the persons who were the subject-matter of the present motion, in charging them with urging others to the violation of the law, and to acts of violence and rapine. He did not think that there was anything in their conduct which would justify the use of such expressions on the part of the noble Lord. What he complained of was, not that prosecutions had been instituted, but that the sentences had been carried out in a way in which the judges did not intend they should be, and which the law did not justify. As for the inspector of prisons, Mr. Crawford, visiting York Castle, in conformity with the instructions of the Home-office, they had been told that that gentleman had taken no examinations or depositions, and had made no written report. Now, he believed that the statement of Mr. Feargus O'Connor was to be relied on in this point, who declared that depositions had been taken, and had been signed at York Castle. With respect to the motion, he regretted that his hon. Friend had not extended it to all gaols in which persons were under confinement for political offences. The motion would not then be confined to York Castle and Wakefield House of Correction, but would extend to Oakham, Warwick, Knutsford, Chester, Lancaster, Monmouth, and other places. The House was hardly aware of the number of persons suffering in the various prisons at the present moment, for offences of a political nature. Now he
12961295Mr. T. Duncombe
129912981297 had hoped the hon. Member below him, the Under-Secretary for the Home Department, would have communicated to the House what he knew upon the subject; but the hon. Gentleman seemed to rely upon the argument and statement of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, who had now retired from the House. He was very glad his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cockermouth had brought forward the motion; he returned that hon. and learned Gentleman his thanks for the perseverance in the matter, and for the resolution he had shown, that this question should not remain unmooted in this House, or that the public should continue ignorant of these atrocities. But, important as the question was, it was not now being discussed before the representatives of the people, but before the benches which those representatives ought to occupy. He knew not what explanation hon. Members would give of their conduct in the matter on the hustings, but he trusted that a faithful account not only of the present state of the House, but also of the arguments which had been urged, would be presented to the public. Why, if the Government would not pledge itself to an inquiry into these matters, did it refuse to grant a commission. He thought a commission would expose acts of atrocity which the country would condemn, and even the House would not approve. Had there been, he begged to ask, any refutation of the allegations contained in the petitions which had been presented? It was said, that Mr. Crawford, the inspector was satisfied that the allegations in the petition of Mr. Feargus O'Connor were untrue; but where was the evidence of Mr. Crawford's satisfaction on that point? The Government had been entreated over and over again to produce Mr. Crawford's report, and at one time it was said that his report had been orally communicated, and at another time the answer given was, that if a report in writing had been made, there was nothing in it. Over and over again the informations or depositions upon which Mr. Crawford had formed his
129912981297Mr. Wakley
1304Northern Star.1303130213011300 could not help observing, that he thought the speech just delivered by the hon. Member for Finsbury was much better adapted for the marquee in which Lovett and Collins had dined the other day, than for the occasion when this important question was discussed. The speech of the hon. Member had so much of the serio-comic vein, that the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth could scarcely thank his hon. Friend for his support on this occasion. The hon. and learned Member who had brought forward this motion had said, that the issuing of a commission was the proper mode of proceeding. He was sorry to differ from him. He had quoted the case of Thomas Holden, brought forward by Sir Samuel Romilly in the year 1812. Now, Holden
1304Northern Star.1303130213011300Mr. F. Maule
13261325l.13241323quasi judicial1322genius loci?Umbrarum hic locus est—somni noctisque spooræ.1321l.l.s.l.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.1320l.s.l.1319l.d.s.d.d.d.d.,d.d.d.d.l.l.l.d.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.1318"Si minus esse potest quam quod nihil
esse videmus,"s.l.131713161315l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.1314cestui qui13131312d.s.l.1311l.1310l.1309l.l.130813071306*** spoke to the following effect.13261325l.13241323quasi judicial1322genius loci?Umbrarum hic locus est—somni noctisque spooræ.1321l.l.s.l.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.1320l.s.l.1319l.d.s.d.d.d.d.,d.d.d.d.l.l.l.d.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.1318"Si minus esse potest quam quod nihil
esse videmus,"s.l.131713161315l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.1314cestui qui13131312d.s.l.1311l.1310l.1309l.l.130813071306***Mr. Pemberton
 wished to ask whether this clause would empower the Chancellor and judges to make orders dispensing with bills and answers, or at least with answers in common suits, for payment of debts and legacies, and other simple cases.Mr. Aglionby
 stated, that he doubted whether the judges would act upon this part of the bill, and that part which authorised them to direct payment into the "Suitors' Fee Fund" of the copy money now received by any of the officers for their own use, inasmuch as this could not be done effectually without very largely interfering with the emoluments of the six clerks and clerks in court; he wished to know how this was.Mr. Aglionby
 proposed the addition of his clause for compensation "to the officers who might be affected by the provisions of the act." He staled, that he conceived that the bill would be ineffectual without it, inasmuch as the operation of the act, if properly and effectually carried out, would deprive the six clerks and clerks in court of a large proportion of their fees, and it was impossible to expect that the judges would do this unless some means were afforded to the officers for obtaining a fair compensation.Mr. Stewart
 stated, that the clause proposed would, in his opinion, be a very useful one. He understood that several of the clerks in court had paid large sums of money for their places: He thought it therefore, reasonable that such a clause should be added.Mr. Pemberton
 agreed that this was a very necessary clause, and would facilitate the carrying out the bill in a complete and effectual manner.The Attorney General
133013291328sine die.1327 expressed his admiration of the knowledge of the subject displayed by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, and the judicious and skilful manner in which he had dealt with his materials. He had always been impressed with a deep sense of the difficulty of effecting any reform in the Court of Chancery. He had always considered that subject the peculiar domain of the gentlemen who practised there, and who were so much engaged in the defence of the whole system, that any attempt at its reformation would be hopeless. Any person attempting to introduce a measure of Chancery reform, might be a year or two years engaged in the task, and if at length he proposed his remedies in that House, he might be convicted of gross ignorance on some part of the subject by some learned gentlemen who had devoted his whole life to the practice of the court. It was, therefore, with double pleasure that he had heard the hon. and learned Gentleman, whose standing in the Court of Chancery was exceedingly high —no man stood higher—stating in their full enormity the abuses which existed in it. Whatever might be the hon. and learned Gentleman's opinion with regard
133013291328sine die.1327Lord J. Russell
 said, he hoped the House, as this was a matter of great importance, would allow him to introduce a new bill and pass it as rapidly as possible. He understood that one question, and that a principal one, upon which this bill had been lost in the House of Lords, was the question as to the liability which was taken away by this bill. That was a point upon which he need not give an opinion. All he would say was, that his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, was clearly of opinion that the liability, as regarded all occupiers, was neither varied nor changed. It was, however, supposed that occupiers would be exempted from liability under the words which exempted, or at least were intended to exempt, inhabitants only. He had been also told, that there was great objection in the other House to pass this as a permanent act, several noble Lords thinking that the question ought to be again considered in the next session. That certainly was not his opinion. It was essential, however, to pass a bill in the present session, and he would, therefore, propose to introduce a hill, and, if possible, pass it through the whole of the stages that day, so that it might be considered in the House of Lords to-morrow. The noble Lord concluded by moving for leave to bring in a bill.Lord J. Russell
13431342134113401339133813371.133613351334sine qua non133313321331***said,13431342134113401339133813371.133613351334sine qua non133313321331***Mr. Lynch 
 stated, that to meet this difficulty, he had prepared a clause for allowing compensation to the officers whose emoluments might be affected under this act, which he would propose when this bill was gone through.Mr. James Stewart
 appeared at the bar, and said that the committee appointed to examine the journals of the House of Lords had done so, and had found that the Rating of Stock in Trade Bill, sent up from this House, had been read a first and second time by their Lordships, and that the report of their Lordships' committee on the bill was ordered to be brought up on that day six months.Mr. J. Parker
 said, that in the whole course of his Parliamentary experience, he had never heard two speeches which had given him greater satisfaction than the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, and the speech of the noble Lord. He should have been glad had this bill been carried during the present Session, but he considered, that the pledge of the noble Lord, that he would carry it in the next Session, was eminently satisfactory. He hoped, that the noble Lord would redeem that pledge, and let the public have the benefit as soon as possible of the reforms which he had promised. He was still of the same opinion which he had declared in the committee, namely, that the office of the six clerks ought to be abolished, and he was sorry that he had not had sufficient weight with the noble Lord to get that proposition carried into effect.Mr. Hume
: There is a subsequent clause authorising the Lord Chancellor and the judges generally to make rules and orders as to the form and mode of proceeding to obtain relief, and to alter, control, and regulate the business of the several offices of the court. Under these powers the judges might, as he conceived, in such cases, if they should think it expedient, dispense with bills and answers altogether, and substitute a petition, or some simple mode of proceeding.The Attorney-General
1305 wished to say a few words before the Speaker left the Chair. He regretted, that the other bill which had been sent down from the House of Lords had not passed into a law during the present Session. But from the lateness of the period, and the opposition therefore it had been thought more expedient to withdraw that bill, in order to introduce it at the commencement of next Session; he believed, that the bill now before the House would not meet with opposition from any quarter, not even from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon, who had thrown out such an alarming threat respecting the other bill. The object of this bill was to give to the Lord Chancellor, with the concurrence of the Master of the Rolls and the Vice-chancellor, the power of making rules and regulations in the
1305The Attorney-General
 did not think that any advantage would be derived from the insertion of these words. It would be best to leave the entire power in the hands of the Lord Chancellor.Lord John Russell
 Somerset supported the amendment, which he thought contained a most necessary provision.Lord Granville
 in case of a division, would have no hesitation in giving his vote against the amendment. The effect of it would be to convey an intimation to the Lord Chancellor that he must hear both sides before he came to a decision.The Attorney-General
 thought the words might create considerable difficulty, and opposed their insertion.Lord John Russell
 pointed out, that the Lord Chancellor had to direct the education, religious as well as otherwise, of the child, and thought that the clause was highly necessary. The refusal to adopt such a provision would be in direct contravention of the first principles of toleration, and if the noble Lord persevered in his opposition to the amendment, he should feel it to be his duty in the next Session of Parliament, again to bring the same subject under consideration.Mr. Langdale
 thought, that it was highly requisite that such an amendment should be introduced, and said that he should have great satisfaction in giving his vote in favour of the motion.Mr. T. B. Estcourt
 would be well satisfied to find that the amendment was adopted. He had supported the bill throughout as a humane measure, but he thought that it would be incomplete without such a provision.Mr. Aglionby
 declared, that after the division which had just taken place, and which by a majority of one struck a heavy blow at religious liberty, he should feel it to be his duty to divide the House against the passing of the bill.Mr. Langdale
13771376 was sure, that the House must be gratified that his hon. Friend had brought forward this motion, for the explanation of the noble Lord must have given some satisfaction even to his hon. Friend. For his own part, he was willing to admit, that it was of a much more satisfactory nature than he expected to hear. He was sorry to find, that the exclusion of France from the negotiations on this subject had led to the manifestation of such a feeling of bitter hostility amongst the French on account of the ill-treatment
13771376Mr. Leader
"That a humble Address be laid before her Majesty, praying her to lay before the House a copy of the Convention entered into by the four great Powers of Europe."1368de facto1367status quo,"I replied to him that he should remain contented with the status quo,"The Sultan has deigned to concede to his Highness Mehemet Ali the government of the whole of Syria." on rising to call the attention of the House to the relations of this country with France, as regarded the affairs of Egypt and Syria, said that every one knew in what a critical position our situation was as respected France and Russia; but what he was anxious at present to do was, to remove the effect of what had fallen from the noble Secretary for the Colonies on the last occasion. The noble Lord had excepted to the use he then made of the word "insurrection," as applied to the Druses, and denied that British interference had anything to do with that rising. Now the truth was, that the noble Lord very much forgot what was the real state of the case, because there were papers on the table of the House which showed that British authorities had interfered, as he had complained. Besides a despatch of the noble Lord to Colonel Campbell, which justified this assertion, there was another despatch which he held in his hand, and which was from Mr. Mandeville, the British resident at Constantinople in the absence of Lord Ponsonby, to Ibrahim Pacha, bearing date March 29th, 1833, which fully corroborated his assertion. His words were—
"That a humble Address be laid before her Majesty, praying her to lay before the House a copy of the Convention entered into by the four great Powers of Europe."1368de facto1367status quo,"I replied to him that he should remain contented with the status quo,"The Sultan has deigned to concede to his Highness Mehemet Ali the government of the whole of Syria."Mr. Hume,
 wished to know from the right hon. the President of the Board of Control whether Government had received any accounts confirming the news that had appeared in the public papers of the Russian expedition against Khiva having arrived there in considerable force, with artillery, and also of their having extended their movement as far as Bokhara.Mr. Hume
1366 did not believe a single syllable of the reports in question. He had been much surprised to see them. Rumours to the effects of those statements had reached Bombay, but they were wholly improbable, unless these troops and cannon had dropped down from the skies. He had other means of knowing, however, that the reports in question were false. Captain Abbott, an English officer, who had left Khiva at a period subsequent to that of the supposed arrival of the Russians there, stated that no such arrival had taken place; and further, he had come by way of St. Petersburg in company with the Russian general who was to have commanded the expedition had it been able to reach Khiva. But it
1366Sir J. Hobhouse
13751374"Your Lordship will see that Mehemet Ali is using every exertion in his power to endeavour to effect the object with reference to which he is so anxious.""The Pacha said that he would persist in retaining Syria, and in the object that he had of making himself independent.''1373"Our policy is always to secure the preservation and integrity of the Ottoman Empire, whose existence is so essential to the preservation of the general peace. Our efforts have at least succeeded in stopping those hostilities in the East which we had wished to have prevented; and whatever may be the complications which may result from the diversity of interest, I hope that the agreement of the Great Powers will soon end in an equitable and pacific conclusion.''13721371exequater13701369 said, that his hon. Friend, entertaining the opinions on this subject which he did, very sincerely and honestly no doubt, it was impossible for him to have expressed himself more calmly or dispassionately. He entertained opinions on this subject as sincere and honest as those of his hon. Friend, but directly the reverse, and where parties had examined a subject, and entertained such essentially different opinions on that subject, of course, they could only leave it to future events, and to the result, to see which was the correct opinion. As strongly as his hon. Friend believed, that the proceedings that had taken place, and that the convention which had been entered into between this country and other great powers on the subject of Turkey would promote what his hon. Friend believed to be the selfish interests of Russia, so firmly was he convinced, that it would lead to a directly opposite result. Before he began to notice the observations of his hon. Friend, he would just contradict a statement which had been made with regard to the Russian expedition having reached Khiva. He could assure his hon. Friend, that he might be as certain as that he was at present in that House that the Russian expedition did not reach Khiva; but that on its advance, met with so many difficulties, that it was obliged to return to the sea of Aral. The report,
13751374"Your Lordship will see that Mehemet Ali is using every exertion in his power to endeavour to effect the object with reference to which he is so anxious.""The Pacha said that he would persist in retaining Syria, and in the object that he had of making himself independent.''1373"Our policy is always to secure the preservation and integrity of the Ottoman Empire, whose existence is so essential to the preservation of the general peace. Our efforts have at least succeeded in stopping those hostilities in the East which we had wished to have prevented; and whatever may be the complications which may result from the diversity of interest, I hope that the agreement of the Great Powers will soon end in an equitable and pacific conclusion.''13721371exequater13701369Viscount Palmerston
contre projetprojet1378 said, that although it was not exactly in order, he trusted that the House would allow him to make one or two observations in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He could assure the hon. Member, and he could assure the House, that there was no want of courtesy whatever towards France in the manner in which these negotiations had been carried on. During the course of the last ten months, it was the desire of all the powers to act in concert to secure the important object with respect to which they were all agreed, but it turned out, after a short time, that there was such a difference of opinion between France and the other powers as to the measures which should be adopted to insure the result which all desired, that they could not act together with any probability of arriving at a conclusion. On this being found to be the case a communication was made to France that if this difficulty continued, and the other four powers came to
contre projetprojet1378Viscount Palmerston
1393 after what had fallen from the right hon. and learned Gentleman, felt it necessary to offer a few observations. He owned that he was much surprised to hear from him that up to 1837 there had been no provision in any of the Irish Municipal Corporation Bills which had been introduced for the administration of justice in Dublin. Now, it so happened that in every one of those bills there was a clause providing that recorders of towns should sit in their respective courts once a month, and oftner, if the Lord-lieutenant should deem it necessary. [Mr. Shaw—That was under the new act.] Was it meant that Dublin should be under a distinct legislative measure? But admitting that it was to be an exception to the general rule, had any undertaking to that effect been entered into by the law officers of the Irish Government? When he heard, in 1839, of such an undertaking, he applied immediately to the late Chief Baron Woulfe, who denied having entered into any such undertaking, and said that he considered the Government quite free to take any course with respect to the Recorders Court in Dublin which it might think most beneficial to the public. Finding this, he with the full consent of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), introduced the clause which had been sent up to the Lords and which their Lordships had rejected. Knowing this, he would beg to ask how was it that the right hon. and learned Gentleman ventured to state that he had done that in an indirect and underhand manner? He had stated publicly that he considered the clause necessary for the due administration of justice in Dublin, and from that opinion he did not now mean to recede. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had charged him with having done this in an indirect
1393Mr. Pigot
ll called the attention of the House to several petitions which had been presented on Wednesday respecting lighthouses and pilots. They complained of the charges for lights, amounting to 1llMr. W. Attwood
d.ss.s.s. said, that a commission of inquiry had been instituted some years ago, and all the recommendations of the committee had been attended to, and the duties reduced as far as possible. He denied that the charge for lighting fell onerously on the vessels alluded to, and he was sure that no establishment could be better conducted than the Trinity House, to which he had the honour to belong. By their exertions in placing proper lights the voyage from Scotland was rendered secure, and the charge on steamers, whose safety Was thereby insured, was only 14d.ss.s.s.Mr. A. Chapman
 in explanation, repeated his statement as to what had been objected by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, in 1837, on the absurdity of omitting a provision for the administration of justice in Dublin. On that statement Mr. Woulfe, then Attorney-general undertook to introduce the clause. That clause was brought in without his being consulted on it, and all that had been done in the Lords was to reinstate it as it had been introduced by Mr. Woulfe. As to the accumulation of prisoners in Dublin gaol, he did not deny that there might be such a circumstance at times, but he would repeat that he had held a court of Sessions once in each month for many years, and that at the close of each sessions he had not left one person or one cause untried which was ready for trial, and that he considered was fully sufficient for all the purposes of justice.Mr. Shaw
139213911390 said, that he had no desire to revive discussion on that long-litigated question then about to be disposed of, but he trusted the House would allow him a
139213911390Mr. Shaw
1395 agreed in all that had fallen from the hon. Member with respect to the efficient management of the Trinity-house. He promised during the recess to direct his attention to the charges for lights but his impression was, as far as the Trinity-house lights were concerned, that the present system was equally economical and efficient. He was aware that the consideration of the present state of the pilotage laws was important to the commerce of the country, and the reason why he had not attempted to place them on a better footing was, not that he was insensible to the evils of the system, but because after the attempt made by his rt. hon. predecessor,
1395Mr. Labouchere
1394 considered it preposterous to contend that there had been anything indirect or covert in the introduction of that provision to which reference had been made. It formed part of the bill, and was openly discussed in committee by the right hon. and learned Gentleman himself. It was introduced with a single view to the interests of the population of Dublin; and, although he had not thought it neces-
1394Viscount Morpeth
 in moving that the House do not insist on those amendments, in disagreeing to which the Lords had declared their intention to persevere, said, that he had hoped the Lords would have accepted some at least of those which, in his opinion, would have been a considerable improvement to the bill. In that hope he had been disappointed. But, under all the circumstances, and in the desire to see the general principle of the bill brought into operation as soon as possible, he did not intend to ask the House to persevere in the amendments they had made. He had no doubt, however, that early in the next Session, he should have to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend this bill on which so much of the time of both Houses had been expended; and that in consequence of some of the amendments made by the Lords, and their rejection of those made in that (the Commons) House. Some of the amendments of the Lords would have the effect of preventing parts of the bill from coming into operation for a year, and others for fourteen or fifteen months. He regretted this, but he repeated, that even with those amendments, it would be better to let the bill come into operation.Viscount Morpeth,
 said, that as far as his own observations went, and from what he had heard of the opinions of others, he should think the general opinion of the House was, that the present mode of lighting was nearly perfect.Mr. Elliot
 in moving that the House do agree to the Lords' amendments to the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill (No. 1), said that one of those amendments he much regretted, as it made the release of the party imprisoned dependent on the payment of the debt and costs. He thought that one amendment by their Lordships, which extended the benefits of the bill to persons who had been six months in custody, was an improvement, but he repeated that it was with regret he saw the other amendment to which he had just alluded. However, as the principle of the bill was a good one, and empowered the Ecclesiascal Court to discharge persons in custody for contempt under particular circumstances, he would not ask the House to dissent from their Lordships' amendment.Lord J. Russell,
 said, that much credit was due to the gentleman who had undertaken the ventilation of the house, and whose plan had been so successful. As to the Bude light, he admitted that it had been greatly improved, but he hoped that the improvement would be carried still further, so that they might have the house fully lighted, without having the source of that light visible within it.Mr. Hawes
 denied that the Church had anything to do with the imprisonment of John Thorogood. He was in prison because he refused to appear to a citation in the Ecclesiastical Court, over which the Church had no control whatever.Sir E. Sugden
 in seconding the motion, bore testimony to the great improvement that had been made by Mr. Gurney's plan, which was beyond all comparison superior to the light of candles; it tended also greatly to improve the ventilation, because it facilitated the creation of a down current of air in the house, which it would be impossible to have as long as it was lighted with candles.Mr. Warburton,
1397 said, that before the Session closed, there ought to be some understanding as to what was to be done respecting the lighting of the House in the next Session. They ought to decide whether Me Gurney should be allowed to proceed in the recess with the plan of lighting which he had already greatly improved since his first experiments, and in which he contemplated still greater improvements between this and next Session. The light, even as it now was, was a rich mellow light, and in no way offensive to the sight. He hoped, therefore, that Mr. Gurney would be authorised to provide during the recess materials for completing his arrangements; and he believed that when the house, and
1397Mr. Hume
1398 said, that he had made the motion for the purpose of giving gentlemen an opportunity of expressing their opinion, and, as the general feeling of the
1398Mr. Hume
1396 did not rise to oppose the motion of the noble Lord. He agreed With him in thinking, that the extending the jurisdiction of the court to cases where parties had been imprisoned for six months was an improvement in the bill.
1396Mr. T. Duncombe
 feared, that if a strong down current was formed, it would be necessary for him and others who, like him, had not hair to protect their heads, to wear their hats, or, like an illustrious personage in another house, wear a black cap. With respect to the Bude light, he owned he was at first unfavourable to it, but since the first experiment a considerable improvement had been made, and the light was now very good; and, taking the light and the improved ventilation together, he would say, that the present house was a paradise compared to the old House of Commons.Sir C. Burrell
l rose to oppose that amendment (of the Lords). It prevented any Loan Society from holding its sitting in any public-house, beer-shop, or tavern, under a penalty of 10lMr. Hawes
 concurred in Mr. Hawes's view of the clause, and seconded the motion.Mr. Wakley
 did not approve of the clause, but he feared its rejection would risk the bill in the present Session. If he thought it could be got rid of without endangering the bill, he would oppose it.Mr. F. Maule
1404 moved that the House disagree to the Lords' amendment on the 8th clause, to enable
1404The Chancellor of the Exchequer
6 rose to move a humble Address, in reply to the Speech. I adverting to the first paragraph of her Majesty's Speech, the noble Duke was understood to say, that it was an announcement upon which to congratulate their Lordships, as it settled a question of the utmost importance to the country; and, judging from previous connection of the families of the illustrious personages, and the previous acquaintance which had existed between themselves, the marriage now proposed seemed to presage an union happy in itself, and beneficial to the country at large. It was certainly an alliance which seemed to deserve the approbation of their Lordships, and he sincerely hoped that they would concur in a respectful and cordial expression of that sentiment. The next topic alluded to in her Majesty's Speech, was the war in Spain, which had been for some years carried on under circumstances of barbarity, which would hardly be considered possible in the present age, but for the weight of evidence in relation to them. It must, he was sure, be a subject of congratulation to their Lordships that her Majesty's diplomatic exertions in this quarter had been so far crowned with success as to give a hope of ultimately insuring the tranquillity of that country. But the affairs of Europe might now be considered to be a very small part of our foreign relations. This was, necessarily, a consequence of the great extent of the British empire, which brought us into contact with many nations differing in their habits and views from ourselves, but whom political circumstances rendered it necessary that we should hold in relationship with us. The Turks were most undoubtedly a people differing in almost every feature from ourselves: but he would say, that the difference between us here was the less dangerous from the very circumstance of its being so complete. The Ottoman empire had been for a long period justly entitled to fame for the stability with which it adhered to all its engagements; for that it deserved the respect of the other governments of Europe and accordingly now, in a period of difficulty, it was enjoying the good offices of the five great powers: and he hoped that the House would approve of the policy which had dictated so humane and laudable an undertaking on their part. Ad-
6The Duke of Somerset
1817 said, that there could not he a more convincing proof of the necessity of this amendment than the speech which had been delivered by the noble Viscount The noble Viscount stated
1817The Earl of Winchilsea
37l.36353433" Altius his nihil est: hæc sunt fastigia mundi: Publica natureæ domus his contenta tenetur Foribus."3231302928272625242322: At no former time have I ever felt so reluctant to intrude myself upon your Lordships' attention as on the present occasion, and if I could feel it at all consistent with my public duty to withhold myself from the discussion, I would with pleasure do so, because I never had a greater desire to avoid it; but with the views I entertain of the present alarming state of the country, although, my Lords, I am not so accessible, generally speaking, as many—not so accessible as many to political fear—yet with the great anxiety which has been impressed on my mind by all I have heard and read, and believing as I do, that there is a very widely spread and diffused distress; also from other symptoms and indications of what I consider worse evils, I feel that I would not be discharging my duty to the public—my painful duty—if I did not address some observations to your Lordships—however painful—and the more so because from the general arrangements of the House, if the first night of the Session is allowed to pass without some notice being taken of the state of the country, or any other topic included in the Speech, practically they are left over till after Easter. I feel that I would be deserting my public duty, did I not take this opportunity of addressing your Lordships, very shortly, upon the subjects introduced into the Speech, and upon the urgent and important subject I have alluded to. It is characteristic my Lords of a free state, that the duties of a loyal subject and of a good citizen, are not only not incompatible, but consentaneous. I think I discharge both, and I therefore discharge both with cheerfulness, by joining in the congratulations of the noble Duke opposite, and of my noble Friend near me, on the auspicious event which was first announced in the
37l.36353433" Altius his nihil est: hæc sunt fastigia mundi: Publica natureæ domus his contenta tenetur Foribus."3231302928272625242322Lord Brougham
42 said, that on this occasion he might be permitted to make a few observations. He had felt it his duty as a Peer to attend at the opening of Parliament this day, and more so as he was the only one of the Royal Family who could be present. He begged to express his most sincere and hearty concurrence in the way in which the marriage of her Majesty had been settled, and he might also add the concurrence of his brother, who was unfortunately prevented from appearing in the House this night. Having been so much on the Continent, and having perhaps more information than their Lordships of the principal families abroad, he had great satisfaction in stating that from all that he had heard and knew of the Prince, and from the high character he bore, he thought the young Prince whom her Majesty had chosen for her consort would contribute to her domestic happiness, and render himself equally popular to this country. What he now stated was from his full conviction, and all he had beard within the few last
42The Duke of Cambridge
1110987, in rising to second the Address, said that he must begin by ear-
1110987Lord Seaford
4140 would detain their Lordships a very few moments, whilst he made some observations on what had fallen from the noble Earl who had spoken early in the debate, and also from the noble Earl who had last spoken. He thought it highly important that it should not go forth to the country that the House of Lords thought we were on the eve of a revolution. He knew nothing more likely to produce such an event than that the people should be told that there was
4140The Duke of Richmond
39 said, that nothing could be more against his wish than to trespass on their Lordships' time; but he could not possibly be silent after the speech of the noble and learned Lord. In all his observations upon the troubles that encompassed the country he (Lord Stanhope) entirely concurred, for the danger by which we were now surrounded was such as no man could possibly overlook; but, agreeing as he did with his noble and learned Friend in that part of his speech, he must, however, express his entire dissent from the opinion which his noble and learned Friend stated as to the causes of those troubles. It did not seem to have occurred to his noble and learned Friend in the course of his eloquent and impressive speech, that he unwillingly, and unwittingly perhaps, pronounced a severe censure upon measures which he had himself strongly advocated. Six years had now elasped since that noble and learned Lord, who then occupied the highest station in the country, had on his bended knees implored them to pass the Reform Bill, and said that from that moment all agitation would cease, and there would exist nothing but contentment, great satisfaction and happiness. Had the event justified that prediction? What had they found but that the people had been incited, and by high quarters too, to menace this House of Parliament and the constitution itself, by an array of physical force and threats of actual violence? Had they not found, too, that the people had acted on the lesson they had been taught? Their Lordships had heard of a great leader living in times not very remote from the present—no other than John Wilkes—and after he had become a quiet and tranquil member of society, his windows being broken by the populace, he merely said, that it was only his apprentices setting up for themselves. Did not the noble and learned Lord say, that the New Poor-law which he so strongly recommended, was to exalt the character and improve the condition of the people? Without entering into a discussion of the merits or demerits of that measure on this occasion, he would say that the effect of it had been this—and he spoke not from the authority of Chartists, or members of what was called the National Convention, but from the authority of clergymen who were daily and hourly in communication with their parishioners, discharging with
39Earl Stanhope
 said, he thought the insertion of the word "Protestant," as proposed, was quite unnecessary, and in fact, in his opinion prejudicial to the Address. It could add no confimration to that which was already sufficiently known; but if the amendment were persisted in, he would not make any further opposition to it.Viscount Melbourne
1615: My Lords, from the commencement of the speech of the noble Duke, from the tone which he preserved throughout the greater part of it, and from the great forbearance with which the noble Duke concluded, I had hoped that we should come to an unanimous vote on this question without even the shadow of difference, if difference it can be called, which the noble Duke seems to think worth while and fitting and proper to raise upon the present occasion. That unanimity would certainly have been more desirable and more precious, and necessarily would have been more deeply felt by her Majesty and the whole country, because it would have been felt, that at a moment and a period when I am afraid it cannot be said to prevail in any degree upon other subjects, that notwithstanding the strong feelings which prevail, had this House for once wholly forgotten and put aside all party and political difference for the purpose of agreeing to and
1615Viscount Melbourne
1413en plein jour, on ne conspire pas,12 said, that no noble Lord in that House concurred more sincerely than he did in the expression of congratulation to her Majesty upon the alliance which her Majesty had, for the second time, announced to the country that day. He agreed with the noble Mover and Seconder of the Address, in hoping that this event might tend to the happiness and comfort of the Queen. Upon this occasion he should have been contented with the Address, and should have offered no other word, if they had not been called upon in the Speech from the Throne to concur with the other House of Parliament in making provision for the Prince for whose future station in this country her Majesty's Speech had prepared them. It appeared to him, that if that House were to be called upon to express an opinion upon a matter of this description, they ought to look into and act upon this subject. It ought not to be a mere congratulation; the public ought to know something beyond the name of the Prince. He had the honour of being summoned to attend her Majesty in Privy Council, when her Majesty in Council was graciously pleased to declare her intention of becoming the spouse of this Prince. He had heard, that the precedent of the reign of George 3rd was followed in all respects except one, and that was the declaration that this Prince was a Protestant. He entertained no doubt that the Prince was a Protestant. He was sure he was a Protestant. He knew he was of a Protestant family. He had the honour of being known to some members of that family, and he was sure that it was a Protestant family. But this was a Protestant State, and it was absolutely necessary to know, that a person who became the spouse of the Queen was a Protestant; and if the precedent of
1413en plein jour, on ne conspire pas,12The Duke of Wellington
 having read her Majesty's Speech, and it having been also read, as usual, by the clerk at the Table,The Lord Chancellor
2120Winchilsea: observed, that from the tenor of the speech made by his noble kinsman (Earl of Winchilsea) it was plain that his noble kinsman believed that they were upon the eve of a dreadful convulsion. His noble kinsman, then, most deeply impressed with the awful situation in which he was, must wish to lay a little tranquillising oil upon those rising waves, with which he saw them all invested; but whether his noble kinsman had made a speech calculated to effect any such object he left to their Lordships' judgment, and his noble kinsman's own decision in his somewhat calmer moments. It seemed, according to his noble kinsman, that the Government was sanctioning principles subversive of all morality—subversive of all religion; and his noble kinsman went even a little further, and said that they were sanctioning principles which were subversive of all principle. Undoubtedly, a principle subversive of all principles was hitherto a great curiosity in philosophy. [The Earl of 2120Winchilsea:The Earl Fitzwilliam
 moved, "that her Majesty's gracious message be entered on the journals and be printed."The Earl of Shaftesbury
"My dear Viscount—Here is a note upon which to bang your declaration as to piracy. You will briefly, first, state your objection to the demand as unwarrantable; secondly, propose a penal law inflicting secondary punishment on slave traders; thirdly, remark that no European power, except England, has declared the trade piracy; and fourthly, declare the readiness of Portugal to act in concert with the other powers, although unwilling to take the initiative. This strikes me as the best case you can make out, wording your conclusions strongly against the slave trade."231valeat tantum230 said, that before the motion of the noble Earl was put, he was desirous of taking this occasion to express his most distinct belief that a certain passage in her Majesty's Speech from the Throne must, at no distant period, form the subject of an inquiry of the most searching description. The House had been called upon to express its joy at the termination of the civil war in the northern provinces of Spain. They replied in obedience to that call, and he for one rejoiced in that fact, but still more should he rejoice if it should be proved, as he trusted it would be proved, that to accomplish so desirable an end no recourse had been made to any policy or course of action of which a noble hearted and generous nation might be ashamed. He felt, however,
"My dear Viscount—Here is a note upon which to bang your declaration as to piracy. You will briefly, first, state your objection to the demand as unwarrantable; secondly, propose a penal law inflicting secondary punishment on slave traders; thirdly, remark that no European power, except England, has declared the trade piracy; and fourthly, declare the readiness of Portugal to act in concert with the other powers, although unwilling to take the initiative. This strikes me as the best case you can make out, wording your conclusions strongly against the slave trade."231valeat tantum230Viscount Strangford
235 felt considerable anxiety on this subject; not that he felt the slightest doubt (who, indeed, could doubt the sincerity of his noble Friend, or of the Government, as to the abolition of the
235Lord Brougham
 of Londonderry condemned the course which the Government had pursued for the last six years towards Spain: and was of opinion, that the conduct of the court of Madrid would force the northern provinces of Spain again into insurrection. What was called the pacification of those provinces was effected by treachery and bribery, and he hoped that this Government were not participators in an act which was so scandalously atrocious as to cast shame and disgrace upon all who were concerned in it. There were various other points in the Spanish question which it would be his duty on an early day to bring under their Lordships' consideration; for though these transactions had led to a present state of inaction, yet he would venture to prophesy they would break forth with increased violence. Of this strong evidence had been afforded the other day, when the Madrid government had taken possession of a strong fortress in order to keep the Basque provinces in awe, and in this and other circumstances he saw the seeds of new discord. On the whole, he was convinced that if the Spanish question was to be settled at all, it must be settled as an European question.The Marquess
 said, he desired to know by what right the noble Viscount called him a decided Carlist? He had never imputed to her Majesty's Government that they were Christinos.The Marquess of Londonderry
 said, before the question was put he begged to call the attention of the noble Viscount opposite to the fact. The noble Marquess had stated that the note in question was dated on the 19th of May, 1838, and it did not appear in its proper place in the printed papers; but he found that, on the 22d of May, 1838, three days afterwards, Lord Howard de Walden, speaking of an interview with Viscount Sa da Bandeira, in a letter to Viscount Palmerston, said, "The Viscount on finding that I was not to be detained any longer, promised me that he would make such a declaration in a note addressed to me as would satisfy her Majesty's Government." He wished to know whether or not such a note was written.Lord Ellenborough
238 begged to put a question to the noble Marquess at the head of the Home Department, respecting a state of things which prevailed in many parts of England, and which had excited the greatest alarm. He alluded to the system of the socialists—a system which he hardly knew how to define without going into details, but which, under that name, was
238—The Bishop of Exeter
 said the Government had taken no steps to repress the Socialists; and he could only further say, that if those persons committed any illegal acts, or subjected themselves to prosecution, there would be no disposition on the part of the Government to shrink from the performance of any duty which the interests of society required.The Marquess of Normanby
 understood the noble Marquess to say, that he considered the laws not yet to have been violated for the purpose of encouraging that system, and the Crown had not, therefore, taken any steps to put it down. He gave notice, that, on Friday next, he should present some petitions, imploring their Lordships to take steps to put down a system which the people thought to be fraught with evils both in a moral and religious point of view.The Bishop of Exeter
 apprehended that such a note as that promised had not been written, which was one of the reasons why Lord Howard de Walden came away without the proposed treaty.Viscount Melbourne
 begged the noble Marquess's pardon; but he thought he had frequently heard the noble Marquess in that House slate his opinion that the claim of Don Carlos to the throne of Spain was a good and valid claim; and he considered a person holding that opinion to be a Carlist.Viscount Melbourne
237 observed, that the noble Marquess seemed hurt at the termination of the civil war in Spain, and had bestowed violent epithets upon the General by whom that termination had been effected. That the noble Marquess should be so, was natural enough, inasmuch as he was a decided Carlist. But the noble Marquess would leave to her Majesty's Government the right to say that they did not acquiesce in that attack upon a subject of Spain, whom they conceived to have returned to his allegiance. With respect to the Portuguese question—of course, if the House was desirous to enter upon a discussion of it, he could not oppose that course; but he could not suppose that such a discussion would have a beneficial effect, or at-
237Viscount Melbourne
234233 regretted that he had not had the good fortune to hear the first part of the speech of the noble Lord. When he entered the House, the noble Lord was alluding to a speech which had been made some years since by a noble Friend of his, in which some severe allusions were made to the Turkish Government, with reference to certain proceedings by which this country was affected. The noble Lord appeared to disapprove of certain parts of our conduct towards Turkey, but, if he had looked fairly to the object which we had in view, and to the tenour of the policy which had been pursued, he would, perhaps, have seen that the influence of this country was not improperly exerted. He, however, for one, must say, that he had no regard to opinions founded on partial and superficial views. Her Majesty's Ministers felt anxious for the prosperity, well-being, and good government of all nations; but he would say, that when the interests of England were concerned, they were bound to consider what was most likely to be good and beneficial for those interests, without looking to the institutions or to the situation of that nation with whom or by whom this country was called on to negotiate. As to the institutions of particular nations, he repeated, that they had nothing whatever to do with reference to the duty which Ministers had to perform in respect to the interests of this country, and the conduct to be pursued by them in forwarding those interests. The noble Lord had next proceeded to remark on the omission in her Majesty's Speech of any allusion to the Slave-trade in the Speech
234233Viscount Melbourne
236 said, the noble Viscount had stated to their Lordships that the letter to which allusion had been made was written in the course of a correspondence connected with a pending negotiation at an earlier period than that at which the negotiation was brought to a conclusion at the end of last year. He did not mean to deny that a friendly mode of negotiation such as had been described did at times exist, and was allowed between parties who acted on different sides, but who had, as was stated by his noble Friend, (Viscount Strangford), a common object in view. What he lamented was, that the negotiation was not continued in that tone, but was brought to the unfortunate conclusion to which it had come in the course of the last Session of Parliament. In Parliament a different tone had been assumed, and the treaty that was pending was determined by a measure which he considered quite fatal to the object which his Majesty's Government had in view. That certainly was his opinion. Under these circumstances he admitted that it was only fair that the
236The Duke of Wellington
"I thank you for the readiness with which you have expressed your determination to confirm such measures as may be deemed necessary to provide a suitable establishment; and I entirely rely on your zeal for the welfare of the country, and your affectionate attachment to my person.""I feel myself strongly supported and much gratified by your concurrence in my wishes with respect to the provision for the Prince with whom I am about to contract an alliance."Upon an occasion so deeply interesting to my feelings as the present, I receive, with great satisfaction, this loyal and affectionate address. said—My Lords, I have the honour to acquaint your Lordships that this House has attended her Majesty with the address in answer to her Majesty's Speech from the Throne, to which her Majesty has been pleased to return the following most gracious answer:—
"I thank you for the readiness with which you have expressed your determination to confirm such measures as may be deemed necessary to provide a suitable establishment; and I entirely rely on your zeal for the welfare of the country, and your affectionate attachment to my person.""I feel myself strongly supported and much gratified by your concurrence in my wishes with respect to the provision for the Prince with whom I am about to contract an alliance."Upon an occasion so deeply interesting to my feelings as the present, I receive, with great satisfaction, this loyal and affectionate address.The Lord Chancellor
356 entirely agreed in the opinions expressed by his noble Friend. He alluded with pain to transactions which had lately taken place, and which were so discreditable to one part of the empire. He concurred with the noble Duke in thinking that measures should be taken for the quiet of that part of the United Kingdom. But he begged leave to add, distinctly and deliberately—and it was a matter in which, he would venture to say, that there was not one of their Lordships, whatever sect he might belong to, whatever church he might be in communion with, or whatever political party he might adhere to—he trusted there was not one Member of the House who would differ with him in what he was about to assert: that, at all events, until the Legislature interposed—as long as the law of the land remained what it now was, there was but one mode in which the Legislature and that House could suffer quiet to be established, and there was but one course which that House would unanimously expect to find adopted in Scotland—that of respectfully submitting to the decrees of those courts of justice by which the law in question had been unanimously, judicially, and deliberately pronounced. The noble Lord said, that he himself bore a part in that judgment, and
356Lord Brougham
357, on moving the second reading of the Bill for the enfranchisement of copyhold tenements, said that there had been three or four hundred divisions of territory, in every one of which property was held by a different law. It was certainly a most anomalous thing, the wonder being, that it should continue to exist. There was no general classification, no systematic arrangement—each territory, each township, each hamlet, had its peculiar law. He knew many cases in this country in which a house was held under one law and the garden under another—nay, even one part of a house which it had been his lot to inherit was held under one law, and another part under another. That, he assured their Lordships, was precisely the state of the law in this country, as far as regarded freehold and copyhold property, up to the very moment at which he was addressing their Lordships. He had stated to their Lordships, the last time he brought the matter before them, the provisions of the Bill. The provisions of the present Bill were the same as those of the Bill of last year. One defect which it was desirable to remedy was, the want of a reciprocal interest between the landlord and the tenant, and the only alteration that
357Lord Brougham
 presented a petition from persons belonging to the church of Scotland, complaining of the suspension of seven ministers of their church without any apparent cause, and contrary to the wishes of the parishioners among whom they for a long time resided, and by whom they were universally esteemed. It also expressed deep regret at the unhappy occurrences that lately occasioned a collision between the civil and ecclesiastical courts in that country. He would give no opinion at present on this question, but he hoped Parliament would not separate before some measure was passed for its settlement, as considerable excitement prevailed in Scotland respecting it.The Duke of Richmond
 was prepared to agree to the second reading of this Bill, and also to the proposition that it should be afterwards referred to a select committee. The mixed interests of landlords and tenants, and the rights of each under the present law, undoubtedly were productive of great inconvenience. The object of this measure appeared to be to obviate that inconvenience, and therefore it was, no doubt, one deserving the favourable attention of their Lordships. For his own part he should feel it to be his duty to attend to the details of the measure in committee: and he only hoped that the noble and learned Lord who had brought it in would take care to allow full time for its discussion.—Bill read a second time.The Lord Chancellor
509 presented a petition from two persons who were confined in Chester Castle since August last, on a conviction for having used inflammatory language at a meeting, and for which they were to be imprisoned for twelve months, after being duly convicted in due course of law. The
509Lord Brougham
 said, that he had a considerable correspondence with the sitting justices on the subject. As far as the case had come before him, he thought the magistrates were justified in the course they had taken. He would, however, make further inquiry on theTheMarquess of Normanby
505l504l503502501ll500lllll499lllbonâ fide498 said, the subject to which he was about to call their Lordship's attention was one of very great, if not of paramount importance; but, at the same time, he was afraid that it was a matter with reference to which the Government could not say anything very satisfactory—he meant the present state and situation of the finances of the country. In what he was about to say, he did not intend to state anything in the way of blame to the Government or to any other parties; but still he felt so strongly the unsatisfactory situation of our finances, that he should not, in his own mind, be justified if he withheld from their Lordships the statement which he should now lay before them. It was not necessary for him to show, or to waste their Lordships time in establishing by proof, how much the prosperity, the power, nay, the very existence of a nation, depended on the safe and sound state of its finances. It was equally unnecessary for him to waste their Lordships' time by demonstrating the formidable evils which inevitably arose from an opposite stale of things. It was undoubtedly the duty of a provident Legislature to pay a wise and proper attention at all times to the state of the finances, because a derangement of those finances often came on the country by slow and imperceptible degrees. It was hardly noticed in its progress, and the evils which were approaching were only ascertained to exist when those very evils themselves had become perhaps too formidable to be surmounted. Those who were indifferent to what might possibly happen after their own times, might not, perhaps, feel very anxious about such a question as this; but that circumstance did not absolve Parliament from paying a watchful and vigilant attention to a subject of this very important nature. And it was because he feared most sincerely (he rose not for the purpose of blaming any one), because he sincerely feared, that they were on the verge of a most unsatisfactory and unsafe state of the finances, that he now called the attention of their Lordships to the subject. In doing so he
505l504l503502501ll500lllll499lllbonâ fide498The Earl of Ripon
508bonâ fide507506 said, the noble Lord had called public attention to what he rightly held to be a subject of the most pre-eminent importance. He could not but express his entire concurrence in nearly all that had been stated by his noble Friend, and almost in all the facts that he had stated, in that sort of general view which he had taken of the state of the affairs of the country both at home and abroad. He entirely agreed in the general principles laid down by his noble Friend both political and financial. He entirely agreed with him in the approbation which he had expressed of the sinking fund, as it was in the administration of the noble Duke, and he entirely agreed with him in the extremely disagreeable state of the financial affairs. He had, however, no great fear as to the deficiency. The noble Lord said, that the noble Duke conceived it to be a necessary principle that the state of the finances of this country should always show a surplus of revenue over expenditure. He did not entirely agree in that. It depended, in his opinion, entirely on the amount. If there were a small deficiency, he should say it was not wise to call on the country to make exertions to make up that deficiency; but to trust to the natural strength of the resources of the country, to do away with that, and satisfy that deficiency. But at the same time he admitted to his noble Friend, that that deficiency continuing year after year, growing and increasing, was a state of things which could not be permitted to go on, and it was a financial state of the country, which it was necessary for the country to look boldly in the face, and to take such measures as were necessary for avoiding of the the evil, and removing the danger. It was impossible to entertain a doubt about that; but it must, at the same time, be felt that in financial difficulties and in financial perils and dangers, as in all other dangers, it was necessary to have a certain degree of boldness, and confidence, and courage; it was necessary not to act entirely at all times by rule in the course they thought it necessary to take from the circumstances of the country.
508bonâ fide507506Viscount Melbourne
512511 rose to present a petition, very numerously signed, by 4,000 of the clergy, magistrates, merchants, and traders of the town of Birmingham, on the subject of the system of Socialism. It was proper to observe, that the petition contained the profession and place of residence of every gentleman by whom it was signed; and, large as was the town of Birmingham, their Lordships would find that the signatures comprised a large proportion of those who might be considered the most respectable in that town. The petition was of so important a nature, that, with their Lordships' permission, he should beg leave to have it read at length. [It stated that the people's morals were endangered by the spread of the system denomined "Socialism," which was greatly increased by the exertions of Mr. Robert Owen; and prayed their Lordships to take such steps as they might deem necessary, in order to check the growing evil.] In moving that this petition be permitted to lie on their Lordships' table, should, he feared, feel himself obliged to address their Lordships for a longer time than was usual on the presentation of a petition; but the vast importance of the subject to which the petition related, he trusted, would be received as his excuse. He had done anything but court the office that had been cast on him. It was the most distasteful office that could be imposed on any man. Involving, as it did, the statement of doctrines that were hostile to the interests of morality and religion, he could not approach the subject without feelings akin to horror; and, looking to the peculiar position which he held, their Lordships would readily conceive that such considerations must press most grievously and most painfully on his mind. When he came down to the House the other night, this petition being then in his possession, he thought it right to ask the noble Marquess at the head of the Home Department, what her Majesty's Ministers meant to do with respect to the proceedings of a body called "Socialists!" He had supposed
512511The Bishop of Exeter
 rose. He said it was almost the only time he had ever entered the House after its sitting had commenced. But it was proper that the right rev. Prelate should know that he was charged with four petitions from the persons against whom the petition of the right rev. Prelate was directed; and he thought it was better that he should present these petitions before the right rev. Prelate had made his statement. The noble and learned Lord then presented a petition from the officers of the central board of the Society of Rational Religionists, vulgarly called Socialists. It was signed by Mr. Owen and others, and prayed for a full inquiry into their system.Lord Brougham
 objected to this course as irregular.The Bishop of Exeter
 wished to present the petitions now, because, if he took a different course, it would have the effect of dividing the discussion. The noble and learned Lord then presented similar petitions from Huddersfield, and two other places, having a similar prayer for full inquiry, in order that the effect and object of the society should be known, and that the public might be enabled to judge really of its merits.Lord Brougham
532"But the self-delusion will endure no longer. In the presence of its founder at the Court of his Sovereign—in the claim of his disciples to be heard on the important question of human regeneration—they read clearly the onward progress of our views, and their ultimate triumph over every obstacle which ignorance may lay in their path.""It has long been the fashion for the opponents of Socialism to stigmatize it and its professors as alike despicable and non-respectable. They have tried to wink at its progress."531"A Socialist community is now forming on a large scale in Hampshire, and the following notice has been issued by the Socialist leaders stationed there: A lecture will be delivered at 2 o'clock every Sunday; after which, if the weather will not permit them to return to their labour, there will be music, dancing, and singing.' The clergyman of the parish expresses his very great alarm at the fearful consequences that will ensue, if allowed to continue. Already the number of attendants extends 500 at these Sunday meetings."530"In my last letter I adverted to the cruel notions that prevail respecting the necessity of a true faith to salvation. A man, with respect to a future state, is no more responsible for his faith than lie is for the length of his nose, or the width of his mouth. For a Deity to judge of a man by his faith, would be as preposterous as to decide his eternal life in the extremes of misery or bliss by the colour of his eyes, the paring of his nails, or the name of his tailor." "A restraint upon faith has ever been of the most mischievous consequences; but let us not attach her to national education." "At this incipiency of a system of national education, it behoves the country to assume a manhood, to exercise a vigour of intellect, and claim the right of private conscience. Let the people beard and defy priestcraft to its teeth, whether it be Protestant or Catholic, or whether it come under the name or authority of Talmud, Koran, Mahomet, Vishnoo, Bramah, Zoroaster, Pope, or Satan."New Moral WorldDispatchWeekly DispatchwasLondon.529528l.l.l.527l.l.l."We are glad to find that the necessity for united exertions in the building of Social institutions is now extensively felt. Our Sheffield brethren, who have been the first to act, and have raised a beautiful building for their lectures, last week called upon their fellow-members in the other branches to assist them. Our friends at Leeds, who at present have one of the largest and most beautiful rooms in that populous town—Walton's Musical Saloon —find it necessary to swarm to a larger hive. In Liverpool, Birmingham, Halifax, Macclesfield and other places, subscriptions are also raising for the erection of buildings."New Moral World526525' Felo de se.'"The peculiar circumstances of his death I think you well know. He dined and drank tea with Mr. Parke, as usual, on the Sunday, and left after tea to attend St. George's Church, which he did. Not coming home at the usual hour, Mr. Parke sat up for him till twelve o'clock, when, as he had not returned, he concluded his relations had detained him. He was, however, found dead in a sort of lumber-room the next morning. Two bottles of poison were lying by his side; the one which occasioned his death contained prussic acid, the other nux vomica. And now we come to the gist of the matter. Near him were lying four letters, one addressed to his father, another to Mr. Parke, a third to the jury, and a fourth containing his creed, in all of which, I believe, he expressed his disbelief in the Bible, considering it 'the most dangerous book that was ever written,' and if ever such a person as Jesus Christ lived, he was 'the weakest man ever heard of.' lie stated in one of his letters that he had been nurtured in superstition (meaning, that he had been brought up a member of the Church of England), and that when he read Owen's works he 'shuddered at their common sense.' He denied all belief in a future state of retribution, and, as he considered apprenticeship a slate of slavery, he thought it the wiser plan to suffer pain for a moment than to endure six years' servitude. He earnestly entreated the jury not to return a verdict of 'Insanity,' as he assured them he was in full possession of his faculties, he therefore hoped they would return a verdict of 525' Felo de se.'524"At the Socialist place of meeting, Birmingham, only so late as Sunday evening last, the 19th of January, the Socialist missionary stationed there thus spoke of God—' What a monstrous God ! Who would call him a just God? I say he is a bloody and barbarous God, and we will not serve him.' On Sunday evening, Nov. 25, 1839, the same missionary at the same place said—' Neither he nor the Socialists, acknowledged that vindictive Being called the Lord of Hosts! Preserve us from such a Lord of Hosts!' "particeps criminisBrougham.523"Mr. Roebuck said he would prove from my writings and my speeches that my principles were atheistical. On this point I have only to remark, that I do not know what he means by atheistical. But my principles are true, if there be truth in fact; and if truth be atheism, then I will submit to be so considered.""The Christians and Jews have made their imagined Supreme Being the most inconsistent capricious, unjust, and cruel monster, that the deranged or irrational faculties of human nature could combine into an imaginary existence. I do not hesitate now to say to the audience, and to let it go forth to the world, that if the Deity, as described in the Jewish and Christian scriptures, be a true description of any being existing in the universe, it is one of the most ignorant, inconsistent, cruel, and unjust beings that the human imagination can conceive."522"What is it to me what becomes of an existence so insignificant as I am?""He lives for this world, because he knows nothing of any other; he doubts all revelations from heaven, because they appear to him improbable and inconsistent; lie desires to see the thoughts and efforts of mankind directed solely to the improvement of their own and their fellow-creatures' condition on this earth, and to see men's wishes bounded by what they see and know: because he is convinced that they would thus become more contented, more practically benevolent, and more permanently happy, than any dreams of futurity can make them.""At dissolution each particular organization returns to the same general elements, to give new life to new compounds, death itself being considered simply as a change of one organization for others."521"The error respecting the law of human nature has led men to create a personal Deity author of all good, and a personal Devil, the author of all evil." "All the mythologies of the ancients, and all the religions of the moderns, are mere fanciful notions of men, whose imaginations have been cultivated to accord with existing prejudices, and whose judgments
521"That each individual is so organized that his will is formed for him by his feelings or convictions, or both; and thus his whole character, physical, mental, and moral, is formed independently of himself.""The religions founded under the name of Jewish, Budh, Jehovah, God or Christ, Mahomet, or any others, are all composed of human laws in opposition to nature's eternal laws; and when these laws are analyzed they amount only to three absurdities."Book of the New Moral WorldThe Holy Scriptures Analyzed, or Extracts from the Bible, showing its Contradictions, Absurdities, and Immoralities, by Robert Cooper"Just published, The Holy Scriptures Analyzed, or Extracts from the Bible, showing its Contradictions, Absurdities, and Immoralities, by Robert Cooper"this world is the only heaven man has to enjoy."Community the only Salvation for Man;"That the truths of revelation are 'diabolical falsehoods invented by man;' that 'all religion is founded in error;' that 'there is neither God nor Devil, heaven nor hell.'"520"The Court of King's Bench has cognizance
520"When (said he) we shall have explained, in future lectures, the direful effects on human nature of the other two great sources of crime and misery in the old immoral world, viz., private property, and what the priesthood has heretofore called religion, we shall be prepared to lay the foundation, and build up the new moral world.""What! not speak of the marriage state and its endless crimes? Why, what absurdity yet remains in the public mind, not to speak and expose the greatest of the practical sources of vice and misery!" Again he said, "I resume the subject of marriage, because it is the source of more demoralization, crimes, and misery, than any other single cause, with the exception of religion and private property."519"There is no hope for you," Mr. Owen continued, "until you acquire sufficient
519"In my previous lectures I hastily glanced at some of the leading evils necessarily arising from the priesthood, the laws and magistracy, and the military. I now proceed to notice, in the same hasty manner, some of the remainder of these Satanic institutions, or institutions of moral evil; and first of the unnatural or artificial union of the sexes."New Moral World.518"It is the interest of every individual of the family of man that this great and glorious change should now be commenced; and that all Governments should lend their aid to perfect it, that it may be produced without force,
518"It is a contest between those who believe that it is for their individual interest and happiness that man should continue to be kept in ignorance, and be governed as heretofore (meaning that he was responsible) by force and fraud, and those who are convinced that for his happiness he should be henceforward governed by truth and justice only. It will be obvious, even to children thus rationally educated, that all human laws must either be unnecessary or in opposition to nature's laws— that they must create disunion, produce crime incessantly, and involve all transactions in inextricable confusion." "All human laws are opposed to nature's laws; and therefore discordant, disunited and perplexed, and always produce more evil than good." "As soon as man shall be thus regenerated, he will discover that the present classification of society into the various grades of the aristocracy, professions, trades, and occupations, is fit only for man in his irrational or first state of existence; for the existing classification can form only fools and knaves, the oppressors and the oppressed.""I will then shew the inestimable advantages which will arise when individual man shall not be made responsible for the character which God and society have compelled him to acquire—show the justice and necessity of making man irresponsible for that which is formed solely by God, and demonstrate that man is, to an illimitable extent, the creature of the external objects, animate and inanimate, by which he is surrounded."517"It is my intention to prove that society can derive superficial and temporary advantages only from making man so formed, to be considered a responsible being; also that there are endless disadvantages arising from training man in the belief that he is responsible for the character which God and society alone have formed for him.""A man detected in the very act of theft ought not to be treated as a thief, because he could not help it.""The murderer ought not to be punished, because he could not help it.""That the feelings and convictions of man are formed for him by the action of external objects on his
organization—and that therefore man has not been created to be a responsible being; that there ought to be 'no praise or blame, reward or punishment, for any conduct whatever;' that, in those characters which now exhibit crime the fault is obviously not in the individual."516New Moral World515New Moral World.s.514513, he now rejoiced at this interruption, whether it were regular or not. He had abstained from
532"But the self-delusion will endure no longer. In the presence of its founder at the Court of his Sovereign—in the claim of his disciples to be heard on the important question of human regeneration—they read clearly the onward progress of our views, and their ultimate triumph over every obstacle which ignorance may lay in their path.""It has long been the fashion for the opponents of Socialism to stigmatize it and its professors as alike despicable and non-respectable. They have tried to wink at its progress."531"A Socialist community is now forming on a large scale in Hampshire, and the following notice has been issued by the Socialist leaders stationed there: A lecture will be delivered at 2 o'clock every Sunday; after which, if the weather will not permit them to return to their labour, there will be music, dancing, and singing.' The clergyman of the parish expresses his very great alarm at the fearful consequences that will ensue, if allowed to continue. Already the number of attendants extends 500 at these Sunday meetings."530"In my last letter I adverted to the cruel notions that prevail respecting the necessity of a true faith to salvation. A man, with respect to a future state, is no more responsible for his faith than lie is for the length of his nose, or the width of his mouth. For a Deity to judge of a man by his faith, would be as preposterous as to decide his eternal life in the extremes of misery or bliss by the colour of his eyes, the paring of his nails, or the name of his tailor." "A restraint upon faith has ever been of the most mischievous consequences; but let us not attach her to national education." "At this incipiency of a system of national education, it behoves the country to assume a manhood, to exercise a vigour of intellect, and claim the right of private conscience. Let the people beard and defy priestcraft to its teeth, whether it be Protestant or Catholic, or whether it come under the name or authority of Talmud, Koran, Mahomet, Vishnoo, Bramah, Zoroaster, Pope, or Satan."New Moral WorldDispatchWeekly DispatchwasLondon.529528l.l.l.527l.l.l."We are glad to find that the necessity for united exertions in the building of Social institutions is now extensively felt. Our Sheffield brethren, who have been the first to act, and have raised a beautiful building for their lectures, last week called upon their fellow-members in the other branches to assist them. Our friends at Leeds, who at present have one of the largest and most beautiful rooms in that populous town—Walton's Musical Saloon —find it necessary to swarm to a larger hive. In Liverpool, Birmingham, Halifax, Macclesfield and other places, subscriptions are also raising for the erection of buildings."New Moral World526525' Felo de se.'"The peculiar circumstances of his death I think you well know. He dined and drank tea with Mr. Parke, as usual, on the Sunday, and left after tea to attend St. George's Church, which he did. Not coming home at the usual hour, Mr. Parke sat up for him till twelve o'clock, when, as he had not returned, he concluded his relations had detained him. He was, however, found dead in a sort of lumber-room the next morning. Two bottles of poison were lying by his side; the one which occasioned his death contained prussic acid, the other nux vomica. And now we come to the gist of the matter. Near him were lying four letters, one addressed to his father, another to Mr. Parke, a third to the jury, and a fourth containing his creed, in all of which, I believe, he expressed his disbelief in the Bible, considering it 'the most dangerous book that was ever written,' and if ever such a person as Jesus Christ lived, he was 'the weakest man ever heard of.' lie stated in one of his letters that he had been nurtured in superstition (meaning, that he had been brought up a member of the Church of England), and that when he read Owen's works he 'shuddered at their common sense.' He denied all belief in a future state of retribution, and, as he considered apprenticeship a slate of slavery, he thought it the wiser plan to suffer pain for a moment than to endure six years' servitude. He earnestly entreated the jury not to return a verdict of 'Insanity,' as he assured them he was in full possession of his faculties, he therefore hoped they would return a verdict of 525' Felo de se.'524"At the Socialist place of meeting, Birmingham, only so late as Sunday evening last, the 19th of January, the Socialist missionary stationed there thus spoke of God—' What a monstrous God ! Who would call him a just God? I say he is a bloody and barbarous God, and we will not serve him.' On Sunday evening, Nov. 25, 1839, the same missionary at the same place said—' Neither he nor the Socialists, acknowledged that vindictive Being called the Lord of Hosts! Preserve us from such a Lord of Hosts!' "particeps criminisBrougham.523"Mr. Roebuck said he would prove from my writings and my speeches that my principles were atheistical. On this point I have only to remark, that I do not know what he means by atheistical. But my principles are true, if there be truth in fact; and if truth be atheism, then I will submit to be so considered.""The Christians and Jews have made their imagined Supreme Being the most inconsistent capricious, unjust, and cruel monster, that the deranged or irrational faculties of human nature could combine into an imaginary existence. I do not hesitate now to say to the audience, and to let it go forth to the world, that if the Deity, as described in the Jewish and Christian scriptures, be a true description of any being existing in the universe, it is one of the most ignorant, inconsistent, cruel, and unjust beings that the human imagination can conceive."522"What is it to me what becomes of an existence so insignificant as I am?""He lives for this world, because he knows nothing of any other; he doubts all revelations from heaven, because they appear to him improbable and inconsistent; lie desires to see the thoughts and efforts of mankind directed solely to the improvement of their own and their fellow-creatures' condition on this earth, and to see men's wishes bounded by what they see and know: because he is convinced that they would thus become more contented, more practically benevolent, and more permanently happy, than any dreams of futurity can make them.""At dissolution each particular organization returns to the same general elements, to give new life to new compounds, death itself being considered simply as a change of one organization for others."521"The error respecting the law of human nature has led men to create a personal Deity author of all good, and a personal Devil, the author of all evil." "All the mythologies of the ancients, and all the religions of the moderns, are mere fanciful notions of men, whose imaginations have been cultivated to accord with existing prejudices, and whose judgments
521"That each individual is so organized that his will is formed for him by his feelings or convictions, or both; and thus his whole character, physical, mental, and moral, is formed independently of himself.""The religions founded under the name of Jewish, Budh, Jehovah, God or Christ, Mahomet, or any others, are all composed of human laws in opposition to nature's eternal laws; and when these laws are analyzed they amount only to three absurdities."Book of the New Moral WorldThe Holy Scriptures Analyzed, or Extracts from the Bible, showing its Contradictions, Absurdities, and Immoralities, by Robert Cooper"Just published, The Holy Scriptures Analyzed, or Extracts from the Bible, showing its Contradictions, Absurdities, and Immoralities, by Robert Cooper"this world is the only heaven man has to enjoy."Community the only Salvation for Man;"That the truths of revelation are 'diabolical falsehoods invented by man;' that 'all religion is founded in error;' that 'there is neither God nor Devil, heaven nor hell.'"520"The Court of King's Bench has cognizance
520"When (said he) we shall have explained, in future lectures, the direful effects on human nature of the other two great sources of crime and misery in the old immoral world, viz., private property, and what the priesthood has heretofore called religion, we shall be prepared to lay the foundation, and build up the new moral world.""What! not speak of the marriage state and its endless crimes? Why, what absurdity yet remains in the public mind, not to speak and expose the greatest of the practical sources of vice and misery!" Again he said, "I resume the subject of marriage, because it is the source of more demoralization, crimes, and misery, than any other single cause, with the exception of religion and private property."519"There is no hope for you," Mr. Owen continued, "until you acquire sufficient
519"In my previous lectures I hastily glanced at some of the leading evils necessarily arising from the priesthood, the laws and magistracy, and the military. I now proceed to notice, in the same hasty manner, some of the remainder of these Satanic institutions, or institutions of moral evil; and first of the unnatural or artificial union of the sexes."New Moral World.518"It is the interest of every individual of the family of man that this great and glorious change should now be commenced; and that all Governments should lend their aid to perfect it, that it may be produced without force,
518"It is a contest between those who believe that it is for their individual interest and happiness that man should continue to be kept in ignorance, and be governed as heretofore (meaning that he was responsible) by force and fraud, and those who are convinced that for his happiness he should be henceforward governed by truth and justice only. It will be obvious, even to children thus rationally educated, that all human laws must either be unnecessary or in opposition to nature's laws— that they must create disunion, produce crime incessantly, and involve all transactions in inextricable confusion." "All human laws are opposed to nature's laws; and therefore discordant, disunited and perplexed, and always produce more evil than good." "As soon as man shall be thus regenerated, he will discover that the present classification of society into the various grades of the aristocracy, professions, trades, and occupations, is fit only for man in his irrational or first state of existence; for the existing classification can form only fools and knaves, the oppressors and the oppressed.""I will then shew the inestimable advantages which will arise when individual man shall not be made responsible for the character which God and society have compelled him to acquire—show the justice and necessity of making man irresponsible for that which is formed solely by God, and demonstrate that man is, to an illimitable extent, the creature of the external objects, animate and inanimate, by which he is surrounded."517"It is my intention to prove that society can derive superficial and temporary advantages only from making man so formed, to be considered a responsible being; also that there are endless disadvantages arising from training man in the belief that he is responsible for the character which God and society alone have formed for him.""A man detected in the very act of theft ought not to be treated as a thief, because he could not help it.""The murderer ought not to be punished, because he could not help it.""That the feelings and convictions of man are formed for him by the action of external objects on his
organization—and that therefore man has not been created to be a responsible being; that there ought to be 'no praise or blame, reward or punishment, for any conduct whatever;' that, in those characters which now exhibit crime the fault is obviously not in the individual."516New Moral World515New Moral World.s.514513The Bishop of Exeter said
533 said, that having been so personally alluded to by the right rev. Prelate, he hoped their Lordships would excuse his rising to state that he had no intention whatever of making a motion so ill judged as, in his apprehension, would be any motion which should have the effect of calling for evidence on this subject. It was fair to these persons to say, that he never saw one of them, except Mr. Owen, before to-day, when one of them had waited upon him to put into his hands the petition which he had just presented. As for Mr. Owen, he had known him long, and had often held communications with him, as he believed he might say most Members of Parliament could say, for he believed that there was no one more known among Members of Parliament, or who was more known to Ministers of State, or, he might say, to various heads of the church, than was Mr. Owen. Having known him so long, he had thought it his bounden duty to present his petition to-night, stating what was the fact as to his not holding those opinions which were imputed to him, and stating other particulars respecting his manner of life, which he denied, and which all who knew him denied. With respect to those opinions, he knew what Mr. Wilberforce thought of Mr. Owen. Mr. Wilberforce knew him well, and when Mr. Canning, on occasion of presenting a petition from certain Socialists, which he had only done after having assured them of his dissent from their doctrines, went into a lengthened and deliberate discussion of the subject in the other House of Parliament, Mr. Wilberforce bore his valuable testimony to the high respectability, though he did not agree any more than Mr. Canning with the doctrines, of Mr. Owen. Mr. Wilberforce having expressed that opinion, it was hardly necessary for him to express, his dissent from the opinions, religious and moral, of those persons, if they bore the slightest resemblance to what had been stated by the right rev. Prelate to-night. But though he had heard much, and read much, concerning these opinions, and though he had heard them fully stated by Mr. Canning in his usual luminous and
533Lord Brougham
536535New Moral World;534, before he proceeded to address a few words to their Lordships on the attack which the right rev. Prelate had made on her Majesty's Government in general, and especially upon the administration of that department over which he had the honour to preside, must declare that he, for one, had listened to many of the quotations which the right rev. Prelate had made with unmixed disgust. If the opinions of those, whose opinions the right rev. Prelate had under-
536535New Moral World;534The Marquess of Normanby
 disclaimed having urged this, but said, that he had no objection to state, that he thought it would be a right course.The Bishop of Exeter
537: It was not the usual course to send circulars to the magistrates. In cases of difficulty, they were accustomed to apply to the Secretary of State for advice, but no such appeals on the subject of Socialism had been hitherto made to the Home office. For his part, he should conceive, that the first persons whose notice would be drawn to this extraordinary state of things, if it were to any great extent to become prevalent, would be the clergy of the Church of England. They, he should expect, would be able to meet such a moral evil with the most effectual weapons. But if any points of information on the subject had met the eyes of the clergy, all he could say was, they had not come to his knowledge. Since the right rev. Prelate had given notice of his intention to bring forward this subject to-night, he had referred to the only sources of information respecting it which he had time to consult; he had referred to the reports of certain meetings of Socialists which had been held in the metropolis, and he must say, that he believed, that at this moment they were as far as ever from being a nu-
537The Marquess of Normanby
540539538 did not rise to discuss the question whether the noble Marquess had or had not discharged his duty with respect to this body of persons; he would only mention one or two points on which he did not assent to what had been advanced by the noble and learned Lord and by the noble Marquess, in order to prove that it was not the duty of the Government, or for the interests of the country, to take any steps towards the repression of this evil. He thought with the noble and learned Lord, that the divine force of truth would and must ultimately prevail; and it was perfectly true, too, he was convinced, that upon the more intelligent, and the more enlightened, and with the well-educated, these doctrines could not for any length of time maintain any considerable hold; but they were not the classes for whom he had fears, and in defence of whom, lest they should imbibe these errors, every precaution ought to be taken. The Government, as a Christian Government, were called upon, he held, in the exercise of their parental functions, to interpose a shield between these pernicious doctrines and the minds of those who were more than the rest of society liable to the dominion of passion;
540539538The Bishop of London
 said, that having heard this stated, he had written to those Gentlemen, apprising them that he should probably allude to the circumstance in the course of this discussion. One of those Gentlemen, the right hon. Member for the city, had gone out of town, but from the other hon. Member he learned that the statement was not correct.The Bishop of Exeter
l. resumed by saying, that he was glad that it was not true. He had been misled then by a statement in the last weekly publication of the Socialists, to the effect that 20l.The Bishop of London
 expressed his surprise that the Prime Minister should have been so ready to present such a person as Mr. Owen to her Majesty. The noble Lord read an extract from a letter which had been received in town from Sheffield, written by a Socialist, and who, speaking of Mr. Owen, said—"More recently he has been presented to the Queen; and this was a free-will offering on the part of Lord Melbourne, as Mr. Owen did not solicit it."Lord Wharncliffe
 observed, that the noble Viscount opposite had admitted that he knew Mr. Owen, and that that individual had entered into a detail of his doctrines and designs; he must, therefore, know the objects which Mr. Owen had in view, and could not be considered excusable in allowing Mr. Owen to use his name.The Earl of Galloway
544543542541 said, the personal observations which had been indulged in by the right rev. Prelate, rendered it necessary that he should address a few words to their lordships, particularly as circumstances which were not generally made the subjects of discussion in Parliament had been introduced into the debate, and it had been pointedly noticed that he was the individual who performed the formal office of presenting Mr. Owen at Court, at a levee, which he attended for the purpose of presenting to her Majesty a petition, which was signed by a large number of his fellow-countrymen. Now, he protested against the conclusion being drawn by their lordships which had, as it appeared, been drawn out of doors, that he was in any respect responsible for any opinions which might be held by those whom at any time he might formally present at a levee; he wished to disclaim all responsibility, not only for the opinions of Mr. Owen, whatever they were, but for the opinions of any other person for whom he might be called upon to perform the office of presenting him at Court. He could not admit that he, by such presentation, was indentified with the opinions of that person. In presenting Mr. Owen
544543542541Viscount Melbourne
 Oh yes; I was acquainted with his person.Viscount Melbourne.
 was not aware that the noble Viscount had ever seen Mr. Owen. This misfortune, however, having occurred during the existence of these societies, it became still more desirable that Government should, in some form or other, indicate its disapprobation of the objects which they proposed to themselves, and the means, by which they sought to accomplish those objects.The Duke of Wellington
546545 felt bound to return his thanks to the right rev. Prelate for having drawn the attention of the House with so much ability, to the system which had formed the subject of their consideration on that evening. That system, he feared, prevailed to a much greater extent than noble Lords at all supposed, and certainly to a much greater extent than he had himself imagined before he heard the speech of the right rev. Prelate. He had expected to hear that in some parts of the country the society prevailed to a serious degree, but he was not prepared to learn that in the rural districts its progress had proved so alarming. He at length rejoiced to find that the motion
546545The Duke of Wellington
 said, that he was then to understand that the noble Viscount and his colleagues know absolutely nothing at all respecting the objects of this agent's mission to Paris. For the present, he would only say that he had lately read, in a very amusing periodical, a description of a society of good-humoured, jovial gentlemen, who met in this town, under the name of the "Wide-awake Club." It was quite clear that the noble Viscount did not belong to that club. It was quite clear also that, if he or his colleagues were to seek admittance there, they would stand a chance of being grievously blackballed, on the score of want of qualification; for assuredly they are not wide awake, but very far from it. What he now asked the noble Viscount was, when the Government were aware that, at this present moment, the city of Monte Video and its dependencies were actually in the military possession of French troops?Viscount Strangford
ll568567 held in his hand a petition from Mr. Owen, in which he expressed his desire that the body of which he had been the founder-
ll568567Lord Brougham
569 was not likely to know what would be brought forward by the noble and learned Lord, and he had not expected that the subject concerning which he had presented a petition the other night would be received. He knew that it had reference to the speech which he had had the honour of addressing to their Lordships on Friday. He could not enter again into the discussion, but he wished that the noble and learned Lord would take the course of moving in a committee for inquiring into the whole facts of the case. He had stated to the House
569The Bishop of Exeter
570 said as to the "ruin" of Mr. Owen's finances, which had been alluded to by the right rev. Prelate, he had made use of no such term. Mr. Owen was not a ruined man. He had never said that he was—he never thought so, and it would be a most injurious thing to go forth that such was the fact. He had never even mentioned it, and he would just show how accurate people were in making such statements. Now, what he said was this, that Mr. Owen had reduced a large fortune to a moderate fortune;—but was every one ruined who had only a moderate fortune? If so he was ruined. The right rev. Prelate, who was a zealous, faithful, active servant of the Church, had only a
570Lord Brougham
571 proceeded to say that he had a petition numerously and respectably signed from the inhabitants of the town of Huddersfield, in the West Riding of Yorkshire, strongly pressing upon the House the necessity of instituting such inquiry, and taking such steps as might seem desirable for the protection of religion, morality, social and domestic happiness, and the rights of property, and
571The Bishop of Exeter
572 said that he only wished to make one remark. The right rev. Prelate laboured under a grievous mistake if he had understood him to lay down as an abstract principle, that the prosecution of crime should never be undertaken in consequence of the increased publicity which would necessarily be given to them by such proceedings. He also did not understand the noble Marquess at the head of the Home Department to have laid down a proposition in the abstract so absurd, as that in no case should publications or pernicious principles be made the subject of prosecution, for fear of increasing the publicity. In many cases, though the present publicity might be increased,
572Lord Brougham
 said, he felt the inexpediency of irregular debating, and he would at once therefore give notice that he would move an address to the Crown to take steps to prosecute persons who were, or might be, guilty. He would not and could not be expected to state the precise words; but the effect would be to interpose its protection on behalf of religion and morality, against the horrible blasphemies of Socialism.The Bishop of Exeter
 begged to remind the noble Viscount at the head of her Majesty's Administration of the promise which he had given the other night, to answer the question then put to him respecting the arrival of an authorised agent at Paris from the Government, of Monte Video.Viscount Strangford
l579 could bear testimony to the fact, that his noble and learned Friend left town at one o'clock to day, under the impression, that this bill was a mere matter of course. He quite agreed, that it was very unpleasant to have such a measure not expedited as much as possible, but for this the House was not to blame, but the framers of the measure. The question which arose was of great novelty in a constitutional point of view, as this measure conferred a precedence new in amount, and in a totally new way. In former bills the precise precedence of the Prince was fixed. This bill at once naturalized Prince Albert, and enabled her Majesty to affix him any rank she chose. He had a constitutional objection to such a course. It ought to be taken by Parliament, and not by the Crown. In his humble apprehension, it must be much more gratifying to the illustrious individual about to be united in marriage to the Queen, of whom he spoke with the highest respect, to have his rank conferred by the Parliament, which consisted of the Queen as well as the Lords and Commons, but of the Lords and Commons as well as of the Queen. When the Princess Charlotte married, she was heir presumptive to the Throne. The grandfather of the Princess was in an unfortunate state of mind, totally past recovery. Her father was King to all intents and purposes. He had been
l579Lord Brougham
 said, that under the clause the words were so wide, that the Queen might create Prince Albert King Consort. It was distinctly laid down by Lord Coke, that the Monarch of this country could create or invent any new title except the King of any portion of the country. If the noble Duke pressed his motion he should vote with him; but he was sure, that it was not the intention of the noble Duke to throw any captious obstacles in the way of the progress of the bill.Lord Brougham
 said, that he must object to giving a foreign Prince precedence over the blood royal. The noble Viscount said, that the illustrious persons next interested had not shown any disinclination to the proposed course. He wished to ask if the noble Viscount was sure of the fact as regarded an illustrious person not now in this country? He believed that he was summoned to this Parliament as the Duke of Cumberland.The Marquess of Londonderry
 pointed out the advantages resulting to Great Britain from the continuance and preservation of our commerce with Buenos Ayres. From the position of different ports, and our intercourse with the inhabitants, the injury done to our merchants by the existing blockade was very great. Our commerce with the province was most extensive, and our interests were receiving the most serious injury. He trusted that her Majesty's Government would do all in their power to remedy so great an evil.Lord Colchester
574573 said, that he was
574573The Earl of Aberdeen
575—The noble Earl is wrong if he supposes that either I or any other of her Majesty's present Administration are indifferent to the commercial interests of the country, or have not paid proper attention to the topic to which he had alluded, and the consequences necessarily resulting from it. The occupation of the French is, and always was intended to be, temporary, and was originally instituted for the purpose of protecting all the inhabitants of the place—British and otherwise—who would have been exposed to the utmost inconvenience and cruelties but for this proceeding. I admit that some injury is done by the blockade to British commerce. I feel quite as strongly as the noble Earl does, or as any noble Lord can, than such injury is great, though it is perhaps unavoidable. No opportunity has been lost by the Administration of expressing to the French Government our solicitude and anxiety upon the subject, and I have done my best offices to put a stop to these hostilities. I did not, in answer to the question put to me the other
575Viscount Melbourne
—Yes, we are aware of that.Viscount Melbourne
578: It would certainly be more desirable, and more conformable to former precedents, if this bill was passed without delay. The noble Duke objects, that its title does not state the fact that it is to provide for the precedence of Prince Albert. This omission, I believe, was accidental, but I don't think it of any great consequence, nor as at all depriving noble Lords of any information as to the substance of this measure, because it is perfectly clear that a naturalization bill must fix the rank and station of Prince Albert; otherwise he would have no rank or station whatever; a precedent which I presume Parliament is not desirous to establish. The noble Duke complains that my noble and learned Friend did not make the explanations the other night which he offered to-night. The proper time for such remarks is on the second reading of the bill, and this opportunity my noble and learned Friend had availed himself of. The noble Duke says that he and other noble Lords require further time for the consideration of this subject. I think it would be somewhat better if a more expeditious course were taken; but unquestionably this bill differs in form from other bills, as the case differs from other cases; and it does give her Majesty an ability to bestow on Prince Albert a higher station than that assigned to Prince George of Denmark, or Prince Leopold. The reason for the difference in these cases is to be looked for in the relative situation of the parties. As to the marriage of the Princess Charlotte, I believe the Prince Regent as well as that Princess were quite conscious that the arrangement then made was a temporary one, and that changes must speedily have been proposed to Parliament on the subject. I believe there is pretty good evidence, that such was the feeling of the parties to that transaction. The noble Duke seems anxious to know how the power about to be conferred by this Act is to be exercised. I have no hesitation in saying, that it will be acted upon to the full extent bestowed by Parliament. It is intended, if Parliament should give that power, to raise Prince Albert to a station next to that of the Queen; and this arrangement, however it may be opposed by others, has not been objected to by those peculiarly interested in point of rank. The noble Duke has moved, that the debate
578Viscount Melbourne
: But the rank was always fixed by the Naturalization Bill.Viscount Melbourne
—All the answer I can give is, that the agent from that Government has arrived in Paris, but of what intelligence or what propositions he is the bearer I cannot tell.Viscount Melbourne
: I did not mean to speak for the King of Hanover.Viscount Melbourne
: My Lords, I do not wish to discuss the principle of the measure. I think, however, that I was justified in making this application to your Lordships in consequence of the unfortunate arrangement in the title. But the noble and learned Lord asks, why not agree to the second reading, and make the objections in the committee? That is exactly the thing that ought not to be done. I do not think, that the House is now in a state to be able to come to a decision on the second reading of the bill. I object to the principle of the bill, but I will not go into a discussion on the present occasion. I propose, therefore, that this debate be adjourned. To-morrow will be too early a day to fix, and, as Thursday is generally considered a holiday, I must move, that this debate be adjourned to Friday.The Duke of Wellington
: Yes, and the precedence was always mentioned in the title; but nobody could have a notion from the title of this bill, that such a subject was included in it.The Duke of Wellington
: I repeat, that not a word is mentioned in the title of this bill as to the precedence of Prince Albeit, though every other naturalisation bill referred lo the subject of the rank of the Prince who was to be allied in marriage to the Queen.The Duke of Wellington
577:—My Lords, I certainly am not at all inclined to discuss this measure, or to give it any opposition, at the present moment. It is too serious a matter to be taken into the consideration of the House on the short notice which we have had of the nature of this bill. The noble and learned Lord lays this bill on the table on Friday night, after a debate, and the bill is entitled "An Act for the Naturalization of his Serene Highness the Prince Albert of Saxe Coburg and Gotha." I asked the noble and learned Lord when he intended to read the bill a second time, because I understood that it was a bill which meant no more than its title indicated. I thought it was a bill entirely consequent upon the other bill which passed both Houses last week, and which is now the law of the land. The noble and learned Lord said, that he intended to move the second reading on Monday, but he said not one word regarding the precedency, which is the important point in the bill. A noble Friend of mine looked at the title of the bill as I was walking out of the House, and he told me that it was nothing more than a bill of naturalization. The consequence was, I had no knowledge of the real contents of the bill. I had no idea of its contents until a noble Friend sent me a copy. My noble and learned Friend (Lord Lyndhurst) I am sure would not be absent on this occasion if he had any idea that the bill related to anything beyond mere naturalization. As this is the case, I hope your Lordships will receive the proposition I am about to make to you, to adjourn this debate to some day in the course of the week, to give noble Lords an opportunity of really looking into the subject. Besides, there is something very extraordinary in the title of the bill; it is not the same as the title of the bill in the case of Prince Leopold's marriage. It is also very desirable that it should be known precisely what is intended to be done, for the words in the clause are very large indeed—"For and during the term of his natural life, to take precedence in rank after her Majesty, in Parliament and elsewhere, as her Majesty may think fit and proper, any law, statute, or custom to the contrary not with-
577The Duke of Wellington
576 moved the second reading of Prince Albert's Naturalization Bill, and, in doing so, he would refer their Lordships to the bill which had passed the legislature previous to the marriage of Prince Leopold and the Princess Charlotte. The House must recollect that her Royal Highness and her consort were in a different situation from the parties alluded to in the present bill. It was obvious, that if the Princess Charlotte had become Sovereign of this realm, some alterations would have been made with respect to the precedency of the Prince, who would then be the consort of the reigning Queen. The noble and learned Lord, after referring to the precedents in the cases of the marriage of Mary and Philip, and Queen Anne and Prince George of Denmark, said, that it would only be necessary for him to refer to the principal provision of the bill, which was this:—"For and during the term of
576The Lord Chancellor
580: This bill gave her Majesty the power of fixing the rank of Prince Albert, as that on the marriage of the Princess Charlotte conferred on the reigning Monarch the power of assigning a rank to Prince Leopold next to the Dukes of the blood royal. The omission of reference to the subject of precedence in the title of this bill was purely accidental; and he found, by looking at the Acts, that the noble Duke was quite right in asserting, that this point was noticed in the titles of former naturalization bills. He apprehended, that noble Lords had no objection to passing a naturalization
580The Lord Chancellor
924 wished to ask a question of his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack, relative to a bill of very great importance, which his noble and learned Friend had introduced into that House, and which stood for a second reading this evening. It was most important that a satisfactory understanding should prevail
924Lord Brougham
: to continue during the life of her Majesty.Lord Brougham
 was sorry that his noble and learned Friend was not prepared to go further than he had stated. At all events, it was clearly a case for committee. All were agreed, that the Prince should have some precedence, and it would be for the committee lo say what that precedence should be.Lord Brougham
 said, that so far from wishing to retard the measure, he had no objection to meet to-morrow for the purpose of expediting it. They would thus avoid interfering with the motion of the right rev. Prelate (Exeter) on Monday.Lord Brougham
Cries of "No, no."926: when this bill was last before the House, had put a question to the noble Viscount opposite, with respect to that clause of the bill which was objected to, and he now called the attention of the noble Viscount more distinctly to the subject, in order to get a direct and specific answer. The noble Viscount at that time stated to the House, and it would have gone forth to the country as a fact, if the matter had not been explained by the noble Viscount, in consequence of his question, that he had had communication with all the illustrious persons who were interested in the effect of that clause, and that they had offered no objection to such an enactment. Now, how did the fact stand? He demanded, whether the Heir-presumptive to the Throne was not more particularly interested in this matter than any other person; and he asked the noble Viscount, whether that illustrious individual had been consulted on the question? He must say that, as a Minister of the Crown, and the organ of her Majesty in that House, the noble Viscount had taken a very cool and off-hand course when he made such a declaration—certainly not founded on fact—seeing that the individual most interested in this matter had had no communication whatsoever made to him on the subject. He would remind the noble Viscount, that it was one thing to enable her Majesty to give precedence to Prince Albert over all their Lordships, over the Archbishop of Canterbury, and over all the Officers of State, but there was a great difference between doing that and conferring on her Majesty the power to grant precedence over the members of the Blood Royal—over all the illustrious Dukes—who, their Lordships could not forget, were the sons of George 3rd. When they considered what the country owed to her Majesty's Uncles, they ought to be the last persons who should be forgotten.
Cries of "No, no."926The Marquess of Londonderry
 begged to interrupt the noble Marquess. If the noble Marquess had heard what fell from him, the noble Marquess must be aware that he had called for a postponement of the proceedings on the bill for the express purpose of avoiding debate.Lord Brougham
: The noble and learned Lord is always extremely ready to rise up and correct other people, but when others rise up to correct him, he does not receive it in good part.The Marquess of Londonderry
 did not rise to correct anything that fell from the noble Marquess, but merely to explain what he thought the noble Marquess might not have been aware of. A conversation had taken place, and it was expressly agreed on both sides to take a certain course, in order to put an end to discussion, if possible. Perhaps such a communication would be made on Monday as would render all discussion unnecessary.Lord Brougham
927 requested their Lordships to judge between him and the noble and learned Lord. He rose in consequence of what had fallen from the noble Viscount, who had got up and charged the noble Duke behind him with being the cause of delay in proceeding with this measure. The noble Viscount said, "I intended to do so and so, only the noble Duke interfered." Now, he
927The Marquess of Londonderry
 wished to ask the noble Marquess, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether the superintendent-registrar of Birmingham (Mr. Pare), to whom he had on a former occasion adverted, still held that office?The Bishop of Exeter
929 said, that in consequence of the statements made by the rev. Prelate on this subject on a former occasion, he had felt it his duty to make some inquiries relative to it. For that purpose a copy of the charges made by the right rev. Prelate against Mr. Pare had been sent to the registrar-general. He held in his hand a copy of those charges, to which he begged to call the attention of the right rev. Prelate, in order that he might say whether or not they were correct. It was recently stated, by the right rev. Prelate, that Mr. Pare was superintendent-registrar of births, marriages, and deaths, at Birmingham, where he also officiated as vice-president of the Social Society; that he had a painted board over his office stating the fact, and that he performed his duties as vice-president of the Socialists in the same office, where he acted as superintendent-registrar, &c. He thought the registrar-general had taken a very proper course in this instance—namely, that of sending a copy of those charges to Mr. Pare. In answer to the inquiries which had been made, he learned that Mr. Pare had been vice-president of this society from May 1838, to May 1839, but he distinctly denied that he advertised the fact on the painted board over his door, which merely contained his name, and had no reference to any office held by him as a member of the Socialist Society; that in November last, he had taken the room which he now occupied as an office—that that office was in no way appropriated to the use of the Socialists; but that there were several other rooms on the same premises, one of which was occupied as an office by the Socialists, but not at all connected with the office which he (Mr. Pare) held as superintendent-registrar of births, deaths, and marriages, Mr. Pare, also, denied that he had been obliged to give up any office in consequence of the strong expression of public indignation; but had long since voluntarily resigned the situation of vice-president to the Socialist Society, with which he now distinctly denied having any connexion. He had, this day,
929The Marquess of Normanby
931"Mr. Pare, the registrar, was generally present at those meetings, often took the chair. The first evening I attended the subject was 'The falsehood of the Bible.' The object of the lecturer (a Mr., a popular surgeon dentist here) was to prove the book a human invention, a tissue of lies, imposture, and wickedness. This argument was further developed from the innumerable contradictions of the book, from its absurd statements, ridiculous doctrines, &c., that, for instance, of 'the thing which Christians call God' being generally described as a great animal, or anthropo-morphyle of feelings, and passions, and actions like other animals; and that such was the general notion, tone, and language of—from its statement of man's depravity—a doctrine which they, the audience, knew was false. The subject matter of the next lecture was, 'The vicious, irrational, and oppressive system of society,' which was traced to the doctrine of man's responsibility, the religion of the Bible, human laws, the priesthood, private property, the marriage system, delivered to an audience composed, for the most part, of the working classes, women with children in their arms, boys, girls, with affecting appeals on their slavery and wretchedness in consequence of the system. This was closed with an announcement from the lecturer, the said Mr.——, that the subject of the ensuing lecture would be—'That there was no God.' I took care to be present. Pare presided. The aim of the lecturer was to show 'that the marks of intelligence and design,' as they were called, 'in the things of creation around us, were no proofs of intelligence, or of an intelligent designer,' and the whole, as usual, was accompanied and wound up with a warm and impassioned appeal to the audience, which was very numerous, the chapel being quite crowded, 'to seek their heaven here, as they could be sure of none elsewhere.' Man is, therefore, necessarily irresponsible to any power, human or divine, if there be such, for what nature and society have made him. In all these meetings at Lawrence-street chapel that I was present at, four successively, Pare presided, and every thing done in them seemed to be entirely under
931930 thought it would be in the recollection of their Lordships, that besides stating that Mr. Pare had been vice-president of the association, he had also said that he had been an active person, and that he had presided at meetings where various lectures had been given. Now, on the mere circumstance, on the admitted fact, that this individual, being superintendent-registrar of the district of Birmingham, was also vice-president of the Socialist Society till the month of June last—on that statement, he rested his charge against the noble Marquess. Looking to the principles which were charged on that society, it was the duty of the noble Marquess to take care that a member of it, a conspicuous member too, should not hold a public office of this nature. Till he quitted the office of vice-president, in the month of June last, Mr. Pare had been a most active member of the Socialist Society. He found, from information which he had received, that that individual, who represented himself as now no longer a member of the association, had been its most active agent, not excepting Mr. Owen, till about the time the noble Marquess had mentioned. He held in his hand a publication of the society, containing the proceedings of the fourth congress of the association, held in May last, and on an examination of those proceedings, it appeared that Mr. Pare had, in May last, taken the chair six times, was appointed on committees or deputations twenty-one times, moved or seconded sixty-one resolutions, and addressed the congress ninety times, in addition to any
931"Mr. Pare, the registrar, was generally present at those meetings, often took the chair. The first evening I attended the subject was 'The falsehood of the Bible.' The object of the lecturer (a Mr., a popular surgeon dentist here) was to prove the book a human invention, a tissue of lies, imposture, and wickedness. This argument was further developed from the innumerable contradictions of the book, from its absurd statements, ridiculous doctrines, &c., that, for instance, of 'the thing which Christians call God' being generally described as a great animal, or anthropo-morphyle of feelings, and passions, and actions like other animals; and that such was the general notion, tone, and language of—from its statement of man's depravity—a doctrine which they, the audience, knew was false. The subject matter of the next lecture was, 'The vicious, irrational, and oppressive system of society,' which was traced to the doctrine of man's responsibility, the religion of the Bible, human laws, the priesthood, private property, the marriage system, delivered to an audience composed, for the most part, of the working classes, women with children in their arms, boys, girls, with affecting appeals on their slavery and wretchedness in consequence of the system. This was closed with an announcement from the lecturer, the said Mr.——, that the subject of the ensuing lecture would be—'That there was no God.' I took care to be present. Pare presided. The aim of the lecturer was to show 'that the marks of intelligence and design,' as they were called, 'in the things of creation around us, were no proofs of intelligence, or of an intelligent designer,' and the whole, as usual, was accompanied and wound up with a warm and impassioned appeal to the audience, which was very numerous, the chapel being quite crowded, 'to seek their heaven here, as they could be sure of none elsewhere.' Man is, therefore, necessarily irresponsible to any power, human or divine, if there be such, for what nature and society have made him. In all these meetings at Lawrence-street chapel that I was present at, four successively, Pare presided, and every thing done in them seemed to be entirely under
931930The Bishop of Exeter
 wished to know the date of the letter?The Marquess of Westminster
.—The 28th of January.The Bishop of Exeter
932 had already
932The Marquess of Normanby
 said, he was considered to be a highly respectable man in his neighbourhood, and at the time of his appointment he was not connected with Socialism.The Marquess of Normanby
 observed, that the letter of the clergyman stated that he was accompanied by several of his friends, and therefore the allegation did not rest on his own testimony solely.Lord Ellenborough
 considered that the right rev. Prelate's correspondent would have better performed his duty had he made the communication to his own Bishop or to the Home-office.The Marquess of Normanby
934 felt himself called upon to defend the rev. gentleman whose letter he had read from the attack of the noble Marquess, who charged him with a neglect of duty in communicating with the Home-office. If a resident clergyman in such a town as Birmingham were to communicate to the Home-office any outrage on society or morals which might be committed there, the place would soon be made too hot to hold him. The rev. Gentleman had not written to him for the purpose of making an accusation in that House. The information, as he had already stated to their Lordships, had reached him through another quarter, and he never had any communication with the rev. gentleman until he received the letter yesterday, in consequence of having expressed a wish to the gentleman who gave him the first information that he might be furnished with fuller details. He would ask the noble Marquess whether any information on this subject had been forwarded to him by any of the magistrates whom he or his predecessor had appointed to protect the laws, the morals, and the religion of the country? If such proceedings were going on through the country, the magistrates must be very negligent not to be made aware of them; and if they were aware of them, they were still more blameable in not making the necessary communication to the Home-office. If the magistrates neglected to do their duty, was it not right in one of their Lordships to call their attention to the subject? This question was not as yet set at rest. It would be introduced on another night,
934The Bishop of Exeter
 wished to ask the noble Viscount (Melbourne) a question of considerable importance relative to a discussion which had taken place a few evenings since. He wished to know if her Majesty's Ministers had any information respecting the military occupation of Minorca by France, or of the establishment there of naval and military hospitals?The Marquess of Londonderry
 thought the Ministers of the Crown had done that which was extremely reprehensible, and had made as strange a proposal as ever came to the knowledge of that House.The Marquess of Londonderry
935 hoped there would be no objection to lay the papers before the House, because the occupation by the French of Minorca had produced a very strong impression upon the people there. He felt very great difficulty in getting from her Majesty's Government any information relative to the foreign affairs of the country. Some time since he had requested that the convention of Bergara should be laid upon the table, and he understood the noble Viscount to have consented to its production. It had not yet been produced, and he therefore gave
935The Marquess of Londonderry
 wished to know whether there would be any objection to producing copies of those?The Earl of Ripon
 wished to know how long they had had possession of that island?The Earl of Ripon
 said, it had been occupied four or five years. It had been originally made over to the United States by Spain, and thence passed into the hands of France, but the Spanish authorities were satisfied with the sureties which had been given.The Earl of Clarendon
 said that some of the papers were confidential, but as they had passed through his hands, he could assure his noble Friend that they were perfectly satisfactory. So far as he (the Earl of Clarendon) was concerned, he should be very glad that they should be produced.The Earl of Clarendon
.—That will be the better course, and then we can judge for ourselves whether they were satisfactory or not.Lord Lyndhurst
 was understood to say, that he could give no information on the subject, more than that he understood they were possessed of some small island off Minorca, which was principally used as a depot for coals.Viscount Melbourne
 stated, that in the observations which he had made on a former evening, he had made no allusion to any communication with the King of Hanover.Viscount Melbourne
925 said, the best course would be for noble Lords to reserve their observations for the committee. It was very desirable that the bill should pass
925Viscount Melbourne
 said, nothing could be more satisfactory to him than the course proposed to be taken. He fully adopted the opinion of his noble and learned Friend opposite.The Duke of Wellington
 thought that he had formerly stated his reasons for the course which he had taken with respect to this bill. The question had been brought forward by surprise, and it was proper that the House should have a fair opportunity for considering it. He had refrained from discussion on a former occasion; and he conceived that the noble Viscount might have avoided bringing any charge against him in the present instance. The noble Viscount ought to have taken care to give the bill its real title, as it was not solely a bill for the naturalization of Prince Albert. The fault of the delay, then, was not his, but the fault of others. Under these circumstances, it was his duty to give the House an opportunity of considering its merits. He was not at all desirous to speak that evening on the subject. The very instant the proposition was made by his noble and learned Friend that the bill should be read a second time, and committed on Monday, he had agreed to it.The Duke of Wellington
 said, that he should, on Monday, move for the suspension of the standing orders, in order to avoid the further delay which a compliance with them would create.The Lord Chancellor
 said, he was not prepared to go further.The Lord Chancellor
 took it for granted, that some precedence would be allowed to Prince Albert. He should, therefore, propose, that power should be given to the Crown to allow the Prince to take precedence next after any Heir-apparent to the Throne.The Lord Chancellor
 wished to know, if the charges were well founded, whether information would be given as to who recommended Mr. Pare, and on what grounds he had been recommended?Lord Abinger
 said, that unfortunately he had been the person who had first brought the subject forward, but he thought, that as the question had been brought forward, something ought to be done for the satisfaction of the House and the country. He was certain, that such was the feeling entertained throughout this country towards the illustrious personage on the Throne, that every one would be always ready to grant precedence to her husband, but when the noble Viscount hail stated, that the plan proposed had met with the acquiescence of certain other illustrious personages, he thought it was but right, that such acquiescence should have been entered on the Journals of the House.The Marquess of Londonderry
—10861085A noble Lord1084108310821081 said, that a petition had just been thrust into his hands on a subject of great importance, and to which he begged earnestly to crave the best attention of the House. It was from certain inhabitants of the cities of London and Westminster, and was numerously signed by many respectable persons, tradesmen and others, who felt a deep interest in the subject matter of the petition. He would best discharge the duty with which he had been, honoured, if he stated to their Lordships, in the petitioners' own words, their prayer, and the prefatory statement of facts to that prayer, which were comprised within a few lines. After having set forth the conviction of three persons—viz. Frost, Williams, and Jones, now prisoners in Monmouth gaol, they stated that a majority of the judges who had tried the prisoners had declared that the legal objection taken to the trial had been good and sufficient, and duly urged—not touching the question of time, on which a majority of the Judges held a difference of opinion
10861085A noble Lord1084108310821081Lord Brougham
1092"With precisely the same consequences that follow in other cases of the same kind.""If there is a conviction, and the judges are of opinion that the objection is well-founded, a pardon will be issued at the recommendation of the Secretary of State, as a matter of course.""I do not know anything about that case; I have explained the position in which the prisoner will stand, if the point should be decided by the judges in his favour. It will be precisely the same as if we had never so decided it."1091"To the Most Noble the Marquess of Normanby," &c."J. WILLIAMS."J. PARKE"N. C. TINDAL."Under the circumstances above mentioned, we beg leave to represent to your Lordship, that in our opinion there is no ground whatever to entitle the prisoner, John Frost, to a free pardon."We beg to inform your Lordship, that we think the circumstance stated and relied on in the memorial, viz., that two of the judges under the Special Commission, ultimately declared their opinion in favour of the objection, does in our judgment make no difference whatever; nor do we think, that any inclination in their minds at the time of the trial ought to affect the question; the law is taken from the majority of the judges when consuited."At the time of the discussion we all of us entertained serious doubts, more or less strong, on the objection that was raised before us. And if the law had obliged us to come to an immediate and final decision, without the power of consulting the judges, which the law does not, we were not prepared, without much further consideration, nor without hearing the arguments on the part of the Crown concluded, to come to any determination on the point. We therefore followed the ordinary course pursued on similar occasions, decided the point against the prisoner by allowing the trial to proceed, subject to the revision before referred to."With respect to the statement in the memorial of what took place at the trial, so far as relates to ourselves, we cannot but remark, that the learned Counsel labour under a complete misapprehension, at which we are the more surprised, as we expressly stated, that no distinction would be made between this and other cases tried at the assizes, but that it must follow the ordinary course.1090"As to the law, the uniform practice has been, so far back as we have any means of knowledge, that if the judge upon the trial of an indictment feels any serious doubt as to an objection that occurs in point of law, he decides the point against the prisoner, and allows the trial to proceed, reserving such point of law, in order that he may take the advice and opinion of all the other judges thereon. After consulting them, and hearing argument thereon (if thought necessary), the opinion of the judges is taken, and that of the majority binds the judge who has reserved the question. If that opinion should be against the prisoner, the law is suffered to take its course, and the sentence which has been passed remains. If the opinion of the judges is in favour of the prisoner, the constant course is for the judge who tried the prisoner, and passed the sentence, to apply to the Secretary of State for a free pardon. And this course in no way depends on any consent, express or implied, on the part of the prisoner; the judge pursues it at his own discretion, and decides the point for the present against the prisoner, giving him the benefit of further consideration and advice with the other judges. And this course is pursued for the manifest
1090Lyndhurst:1089"The Lord Marquess of Normanby, &c.""N. C. TINDAL.""I have the honour to remain my Lord, your Lordship's obedient and faithful servant,"I will have the honour of calling on your Lordship to-morrow at the rising of the Court, if I should receive any intimation to that effect."The result, therefore, of the determination of the judges, is, that the conviction is right."All the judges agreed, that if the objection had been made in due time, the effect of it would have been the postponement of the trial, in order to give time for a proper delivery of the list."But secondly—A majority of the judges, in the proportion of nine to six, are of opinion, that the objection to the delivery of the list of witnesses was not taken in due time.1088"First—A majority of the judges, in the proportion of nine to six, are of opinion, that
1088v"My Lord—I have the honour to inform your Lordship, that the argument upon the three cases of the Queen v"Westminster Hall, 28th January, 1840.1087 said, that their Lordships would readily suppose, that if he arose merely for the purpose of offering his individual opinion upon a subject of that nature, in opposition to that urged by his noble and learned Friend, with so much force and with all the authority of his name, he should do so with the greatest hesitation. But he had had an opportunity of appealing on the question to that party to whom his noble and learned Friend had alluded in the course of his address—he had had an opportunity of referring to the learned judges who had given on the matter their deliberate decision. He should be able to refer to that decision, not only in general terms, and in a manner which might be supposed a loose one, but as his noble Friend, in the course of the afternoon, had communicated to him his intention of presenting a petition upon the subject, he had referred to the judge who had presided at the commission at Monmouth, and he obtained his permission to give the House the substance of those communications which had passed between that learned person and other parties on the occasion. But before he would urge on their Lordships', with all the weight due to that authority, that they should not listen to the prayer of those petititioners, he would say a few words on that to which his noble and learned Friend had alluded, viz., the unfortunate conduct of the parties who had "conducted the trial." His noble and learned Friend stated, that he knew not where the blame of the proceeding rested, and he had afterwards alluded to a person for whom he entertained the highest respect, he meant the person who had prepared that prosecution, and on whom, no doubt, it was intended to make the blame
1092"With precisely the same consequences that follow in other cases of the same kind.""If there is a conviction, and the judges are of opinion that the objection is well-founded, a pardon will be issued at the recommendation of the Secretary of State, as a matter of course.""I do not know anything about that case; I have explained the position in which the prisoner will stand, if the point should be decided by the judges in his favour. It will be precisely the same as if we had never so decided it."1091"To the Most Noble the Marquess of Normanby," &c."J. WILLIAMS."J. PARKE"N. C. TINDAL."Under the circumstances above mentioned, we beg leave to represent to your Lordship, that in our opinion there is no ground whatever to entitle the prisoner, John Frost, to a free pardon."We beg to inform your Lordship, that we think the circumstance stated and relied on in the memorial, viz., that two of the judges under the Special Commission, ultimately declared their opinion in favour of the objection, does in our judgment make no difference whatever; nor do we think, that any inclination in their minds at the time of the trial ought to affect the question; the law is taken from the majority of the judges when consuited."At the time of the discussion we all of us entertained serious doubts, more or less strong, on the objection that was raised before us. And if the law had obliged us to come to an immediate and final decision, without the power of consulting the judges, which the law does not, we were not prepared, without much further consideration, nor without hearing the arguments on the part of the Crown concluded, to come to any determination on the point. We therefore followed the ordinary course pursued on similar occasions, decided the point against the prisoner by allowing the trial to proceed, subject to the revision before referred to."With respect to the statement in the memorial of what took place at the trial, so far as relates to ourselves, we cannot but remark, that the learned Counsel labour under a complete misapprehension, at which we are the more surprised, as we expressly stated, that no distinction would be made between this and other cases tried at the assizes, but that it must follow the ordinary course.1090"As to the law, the uniform practice has been, so far back as we have any means of knowledge, that if the judge upon the trial of an indictment feels any serious doubt as to an objection that occurs in point of law, he decides the point against the prisoner, and allows the trial to proceed, reserving such point of law, in order that he may take the advice and opinion of all the other judges thereon. After consulting them, and hearing argument thereon (if thought necessary), the opinion of the judges is taken, and that of the majority binds the judge who has reserved the question. If that opinion should be against the prisoner, the law is suffered to take its course, and the sentence which has been passed remains. If the opinion of the judges is in favour of the prisoner, the constant course is for the judge who tried the prisoner, and passed the sentence, to apply to the Secretary of State for a free pardon. And this course in no way depends on any consent, express or implied, on the part of the prisoner; the judge pursues it at his own discretion, and decides the point for the present against the prisoner, giving him the benefit of further consideration and advice with the other judges. And this course is pursued for the manifest
1090Lyndhurst:1089"The Lord Marquess of Normanby, &c.""N. C. TINDAL.""I have the honour to remain my Lord, your Lordship's obedient and faithful servant,"I will have the honour of calling on your Lordship to-morrow at the rising of the Court, if I should receive any intimation to that effect."The result, therefore, of the determination of the judges, is, that the conviction is right."All the judges agreed, that if the objection had been made in due time, the effect of it would have been the postponement of the trial, in order to give time for a proper delivery of the list."But secondly—A majority of the judges, in the proportion of nine to six, are of opinion, that the objection to the delivery of the list of witnesses was not taken in due time.1088"First—A majority of the judges, in the proportion of nine to six, are of opinion, that
1088v"My Lord—I have the honour to inform your Lordship, that the argument upon the three cases of the Queen v"Westminster Hall, 28th January, 1840.1087The Marquess of Normanby
 had previously risen, not for the purpose of interrupting his noble Friend, but merely to ask, whether what he were about to state would be likely to lead to a debate because he had some petitions of the utmost importance to present, as they affected the liberty of the subject; but he found his noble Friend had most judiciously taken the course he had intimated, and therefore it mattered not whether the petitions were presented before or after. He wished to ask his noble Friend, whether he intended to content himself with giving up this point altogether, or whether he intended merely to postpone it. He also wished to know, whether there was any intention to take advantage of the doubtful state of the common law on this subject, and to attempt to accomplish this object by the exercise of the prerogative, without bringing the matter before Parliament. It was exceedingly desirable, that the matter should be settled by enactment, as then the judgment of Parliament could be obtained on the subject, as the common law on the subject of the exercise of the prerogative, as party precedence was full of doubt and obscurity.Lord Brougham
 said, that as no precedence had been settled for the illustrious person in question by Act of Parliament, he wished to know if it was the intention to take advantage of the doubtful state of the law on the subject to exercise the prerogative of the Crown, as he conceived that would be a course full of difficulty.Lord Brougham
1093 wished to explain a few of his remarks which had been referred to by his noble Friend the Marquess of Normanby. He had not thrown the blame of the proceeding on Mr. Maule, who was only to blame in the first step, and this step might easily have been cured by going again to Monmouth four weeks
1093Lord Brougham
1096 said, that he would take that occasion of observing, that nothing could be more judicious than the suggestions which had been thrown out by the noble Duke respecting these dangerous doctrines, viz., that the magistrates
1096The Marquess of Normanby
1097 said, that having given notice of a motion for an address to the crown, for copies of any correspondence between her Majesty's Government and the French or Spanish Governments relative to the occupation of any part of the Island of Minorca by the French Government, he wished to trouble their Lordships with a few sentences to explain his reasons for giving that notice, and also the course which he now intended to pursue on the subject. The history of the Island of Minorca had been, for the last century, mixed up with the history of this country. From its position, standing almost midway between the coast of France on the one hand, and the coast of Africa on the other, and also possessing one of the finest harbours for trade in that part of the world, it was a station of great political importance to whatever country possessed it, and on that account it had been made the subject of military contest at various times. Formerly, while the coast of France belonged to the Sovereign of that country, and the opposite coast of Africa to the Dey of Algiers, the island of Minorca was the most important position between Europe and Africa. But now, when both coasts- were in the possession of France, Minorca being a connecting link half-way between, and having a most important naval arsenal at Port Mahon, it would give to France the power of commanding the whole eastern trade of the Mediterranean. He had felt it necessary to give notice of a motion for those papers in order to show of what serious consequences would be any attempt on the part of France to effect the occupation of Minorca, so as to put her in military possession of the island, either at present or hereafter; but as he had since understood from the noble Viscount at the head of the
1097The Earl of Colchester
 then presented the other petitions, and said that he would rest his case upon this issue. Two of the Judges out of the three had been in favour of the objection, and if the point had been decided at the time of the trial, the prisoners must have been acquitted. If it were denied that such was the case, and two of the Judges were in favour of the objection, he would, under such a circumstance, withdraw his prayer.Lord Brougham
 was understood to say that he entirely agreed with the noble Marquess in the view of the case which he had so distinctly laid down. In the course of his experience he had never heard it doubted that every point was finally settled by a majority of the fifteen Judges, for whose opinion it had been reserved. As to the doctrine that the prisoner was entitled to his pardon because two of the Judges on the special commission were in favour of his objection, how, he would ask, was it known that such were the opinions of those learned Judges? It had not been, and could not be officially announced; and was a pardon to be granted on the reports of newspapers? He was of opinion that the prisoners ought not to receive a free pardon. If they did not carry the punishment into effect, it would be giving encouragement to traitors, and Chartism would prevail more than ever. He was glad that the lives of the prisoners had been saved, but justice demanded that they should receive some punishment. He quite approved of the course pursued by the noble Marquess.Lord Wynford
.—Nothing has as yet been determined.Viscount Melbourne
, in rising to move the committal of the bill, for the naturalization of Prince Albert, was anxious to address a few words to their Lord-ships. He was anxious that the bill should pass with all possible speed, and with as little opposition and discussion as possible, but from his communications he was so fearful of commencing an argument on this subject, that he had determined to leave out all relating to the precedence of Prince Albert, and to reduce the bill to that which the noble Duke had said he had imagined it to be, a simple naturalization bill, leaving the question of precedence to be settled at some other time.Viscount Melbourne
 said—My Lords, in presenting some petitions from the clergy of Southampton and several of the neighbouring parishes against the system of Socialism, I will take the liberty of stating to your Lordships the conduct I have thought it my duty to pursue with respect to that system in the county with which I am particularly connected. I have thought it my duty to recommend to the magistrates of the parishes where these Socialists have introduced their sys- tern, to watch narrowly the proceedings of these institutions, to take official cognizance of them, and, if they are guilty of any breach of the peace or the law, to proceed against them as the law permits. I think it to be the duty of the Lord-lieutenant and proprietors of counties to take their part in such proceedings, and I hope that her Majesty's Government will approve of what I have done on this subject, and that it will have a beneficial effect in other parts of the country, and place an effectual check on such mischievous doctrines.The Duke of Wellington
1095 wished to say a few words on the question which had been raised by his noble and learned Friend (Brougham), whether a prisoner or his counsel had the choice of reserving a point for the decision of the fifteen Judges, or whether, if insisted upon, it was the duty of the Judges at once to decide. He believed that counsel had no power to demand a decision to be given at the time. Where a question arose on a trial in which the Judge or Judges entertained some doubt, the course which had always been adopted, was to pronounce a decision against the objection, reserving to themselves the power of obtaining the opinion of their brethren. The authority of the learned Judges—which his noble and learned Friend would not question, and which no one else could—had been very properly brought forward—and that set the question entirely at rest. As to the correctness of their opinions, there was no doubt in his mind; and what would be the consequences if such were not the case? It would render the opinion of the body of the Judges utterly useless. For what purpose could reference be made to the opinion of the fifteen Judges, if the previously formed opinion of those who presided at the trial was to be acted upon? He would suppose a case which had really occurred—the present case. Suppose that two out of the three Judges who presided were in favour of the validity of the objection, or were to come to that conclusion, or that counsel compelled them to decide; the course always, as far as he knew, was to decide against the objection, and the trial was always allowed to proceed. The opinion of the fifteen Judges had been taken, and that opinion was that the objection ought not then to have prevailed. Now, if the prisoner was entitled to have a pardon, what was done? At any rate this absurdity was perpetrated—that the majority of the Judges whose opinions were expressly sought, were rendered useless and treated as nothing, and the opinion of the two Judges originally present prevailed. By doing that, was it not rendering it utterly absurd to refer to the Judges at all? Why, then, under such circumstances, the decision might as well be given at once, for having asked and having obtained the opinion of the whole bench, to that opinion no deference was paid. If that course were adopted, no attention would be paid to the una-
1095The Lord Chancellor
habeas corpus,1169 said, his noble Friend was perfectly right in the interpretation which his noble Friend had put on what he said. He had expressed that opinion, not on the point of law in dispute, but on the conduct of the parties in this instance, which was a perfectly different matter: but if there were any risk or danger attending what he had said, of any interference of this House with the other House of Parliament, it was his comfort to think that that House could not be damaged at all by it. It was himself alone that could suffer. It was very well to say, and he knew that he was nominally protected in what he might say in his place in Parliament; but there was nothing to prevent the House of Commons directing the Sergeant-at-Arms to take him into custody as he was getting into his carriage —voting him guilty of a breach of privilege—committing him — and, when he
habeas corpus,1169Lord Brougham
1160 said, he had to present to their Lordships three petitions from three individuals in similar circumstances—viz. John Frost, Zephaniah Williams, and William Jones, prisoners in the county gaol of Monmouth, who had been convicted of high treason, setting forth various facts relating to the trial, and the ultimate decision on the objection taken, and complaining, that not being aware of the law, they were not informed of that which now turned out to be the law, and were, therefore, prevented from taking the objection in what was now said to have been the proper time; also solemnly declaring, that the Judges had expressed the same opinion upon the trial as they afterwards entertained, and that, therefore, if the objection had been taken in due and proper time, the petitioners ought to have been acquitted, and praying their Lordships to interfere to obtain mercy for them. He believed, that a great error had gone abroad respecting these proceedings. It was a great mistake to suppose the fifteen Judges constituted a tribunal known to the law of the country. It was not so. They were merely consulting on the subject as any other individuals learned in the law might have done, and had not an atom of jurisdiction, because they had not heard the cause tried. Such consultations used to be in the dining-room of the Judges, and he had argued causes there before their Lordships after dinner. The case of Lawless was so argued, but the judgment was not given until next spring, when it was delivered at the Assizes in the Court where the cause had been tried by a single Judge. It was altogether a mistake in
1160Lord Brougham
1168116711661165"Wherefore, throwing ourselves on the justice and protection of the highest court of judicature in the realm, your petitioners humbly pray your Lordships' House to afford them such assistance in the circumstances of the case as to your Lordships' House will seem fit, to the end that the petitioners, being officers of the law, and sworn to execute it, in obedience to a writ to them directed, may not suffer in their persons for the necessary discharge of their duties according to their oaths, and which, if they had failed to do, they would have been liable by the law to the severest punishment."1164Habeas CorpusHabeas Corpusl.v.1163fieri facias1162l.1161 had to present a petition from two individuals placed in a situation of peculiar difficulty and hardship, and in circumstances strange, unprecedented, and alarming; he presented to their Lordships a petition from William Evans, and John Wheelton, Esqrs., Sheriffs of London and Middlesex, and the petition appeared to be presented to the House, not merely in its Legislative capacity, but as the highest Court of Judicature known to the laws of these realms, and from officers of a court on whose judicial decisions their Lordships might have to sit in judgment, as also upon the conduct of the sheriffs as officers of that court over which their Lordships' House had unquestioned jurisdiction. The petition was to this effect— and in regard to the great hardship of this case, and in regard to the high and paramount importance of the subject, and in regard, he would venture to add, to the respectful, touching, and submissive nature of the appeal made to their Lordships, he would venture to engage for the statements of the petition that attention which their Lordships always gave to the petitions of every class of their fellow-subjects, when those fellow-subjects bore towards their Lordships the relations which he had taken the liberty to point out. The petitioners addressed their Lordships as the Supreme Court of Judicature of the country, and they asked for justice according to law, and he for one must say, that in his experience he knew of no justice—he knew of nothing called justice, unless it was justice according to the law —the known and established law of the realm. The petitioners said, that by divers charters the office of sheriffs of the city of London, and the county of Middlesex, were vested in the Lord Mayor, commonalty, and citizens of London. That the sheriffs were elected by the livery-men of London in Common Hall assembled, and were compellable to serve such office under the penalty of a heavy
1168116711661165"Wherefore, throwing ourselves on the justice and protection of the highest court of judicature in the realm, your petitioners humbly pray your Lordships' House to afford them such assistance in the circumstances of the case as to your Lordships' House will seem fit, to the end that the petitioners, being officers of the law, and sworn to execute it, in obedience to a writ to them directed, may not suffer in their persons for the necessary discharge of their duties according to their oaths, and which, if they had failed to do, they would have been liable by the law to the severest punishment."1164Habeas CorpusHabeas Corpusl.v.1163fieri facias1162l.1161Lord Brougham
121712161215 was anxious to say a very few words in reference to a misapprehension which seemed to obtain in the mind of the noble Marquess (Normanby), with respect to the publicity which he conceived would be given to the mischievous doctrines of Socialism by the discussion of them in that House. It was perfectly true that that effect would follow to a certain extent and in certain classes of society. One consequence of these debates in their Lordships' House, particularly of the eloquent and luminous exposition made by his right rev. Friend (the Bishop of Exeter) of the principles and practice of Socialism, undoubtedly
121712161215The Bishop of London
 would not detain their Lordships by any reply. He would only say, in justice to the clergyman that had been alluded to in the debate, that so far from having supplied him (the Bishop of Exeter) with information at the proper time for his political purposes, that rev. and most respectable person had not supplied any information until directly applied to. He had heard of Mr. Pare and his proceedings, but, as authority was of course necessary, he had made the application. That respectable clergyman otherwise would not have come forward. He would only add, that the inquiry now sought for was different to that asked for by the Socialists themselves—it was to inquire in the first place into the diffusion of blasphemous and immoral publications—not whether they were right or wrong, but into the facts, that the Government might do their duty.The Bishop of Exeter
 said, that he could not allow this opportunity to pass by without expressing his great satisfaction at finding that his gallant Friend Lord Keane, and the troops under his command, had acted in such a manner as to call forth this mark of approbation from their Lordships—an honour which he knew would be duly appreciated by every individual of the army. He begged to return his thanks to the noble Viscount for having brought forward his motion, and for the very handsome manner in which he had been pleased to express himself regarding the conduct of the British troops.Lord Hill
1176 on rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, said, he would in the first place set right a point which had been left a little in doubt by the noble and learned Lord near him (Lord Brougham) on a former evening. It related to the reference the noble and learned Lord had made to the name of Mr. Wilberforce, as having approved of the principles of Mr. Robert Owen. He had received a letter from a relative of that venerable man, who had seen, through the only means open to him for information, the testimony of Mr. Wilberforce claimed by the noble and learned Lord in favour of Mr. Robert Owen. His correspondent stated, that by reference to entries in the diary of Mr. Wilberforce's life, he had found that Mr. Wilberforce had not that opinion of Mr. Owen's excellence which the noble and learned Lord thought ought to be deduced from certain words supposed to have been spoken by Mr. Wilberforce. His correspondent said, in emphatic words, "I well remember his indignation at Mr. Owen's having mistaken his universal kindness of demeanour for a bare tolerance of those pes-
1176The Bishop of Exeter,
 had spoken of ten years before the period then referred to.Lord Brougham
"Having observed in the papers, that at a recent levee, Mr. Robert Owen, the Socialist, as he is pleased to call himself, received the very prominent distinction of being presented to her most gracious Majesty by your Lordship, personally, as the head of her Majesty's Government, the object of which presentation is stated in the Court Circular thus:—'Robert Owen, from the Congress of Delegates of the Universal Community Society of Rational Religionists, soliciting the Government to appoint parties to investigate measures which the Congress proposes, to ameliorate the condition of society,' I take the liberty of forwarding to your Lordship a copy of one of the numerous works issued by the society, of which Mr. R. Owen is the accredited representative, and, in fact, founder. It is the only one I have seen; but I am assured by those who have seen more of their publications, that it is a fair average specimen of their general character and tendency. I have, therefore, felt it my duty to send it to your Lordship, to put you on your guard as to the nature of the people whose chief has already received such an unusual mark of distinction and encouragement at your hands; for I am quite certain that your Lordship could not have been aware that the person introduced into the presence of our beloved, pure, and maiden Queen, was the organ of the society, who, under the specious name of 'Rational Religionists,' repudiate the revealed word of Almighty God, and by way of 'ameliorating the condition of society,' disseminate systematically, works of such disgusting obscenity, and so demoralizing in their tendency. Should your Lordship think fit to honour me with any notice of my communication, should be happy indeed to think I had been the means of giving timely information on a subject of vital concern to the public, that no further encouragement is likely to be afforded to a society of such a character, or any member of it; and that your Lordship has received, without taking offence, what I have felt it my duty as a clergyman thus to state."1178New Moral World,"That he would inquire, but that he regretted the right rev. Prelate had interfered, instead of leaving the matter to the good sense of the country. He regretted that the right rev. Prelate had taken the course he had, for though he would make inquiries, yet he did not anticipate that it would be thought desirable to adopt such measures as, he gathered from the right rev. Prelate's speech, were by him thought necessary to be forthwith adopted."1177 would now proceed to address himself to the subject of which he had given notice, and possibly it might be most convenient if he at once stated the terms of that motion—viz., that an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty would be pleased to command, that inquiries should be made into the diffusion of blasphemous and immoral publications, especially as to the tenets and proceedings of a society established under the name of Socialists; who were represented in petitions presented to this House to be a society, the object of which was by the diffusion of its doctrines to destroy the existing laws and institutions of this country. He had stated the terms of the motion with which he should conclude, in fairness to the noble Marquess and the rest of the Government, because he was aware that those terms implied some doubts upon the conduct of the noble Marquess in reference to this subject. He frankly owned that he had those doubts, and that he did not think it safe for the cause he presumed to advocate to leave the question in their hands without some impulse being given to it by an expression of opinion on the part of their Lordships; and he would proceed to tell the House upon what grounds that opinion had arisen. It was founded upon the language used on a former occasion by the noble Marquess at the head of the Home Department; it was founded upon the letters of the noble Viscount at the head of the Government: and also upon the course which had been taken in respect of matters brought directly under the consideration of the Government. It would be in the recollection of the House, that when he before addressed their Lordships on this question, when he very feebly described the horrors of the system of Socialism, he had called on the noble Marquess to in-
"Having observed in the papers, that at a recent levee, Mr. Robert Owen, the Socialist, as he is pleased to call himself, received the very prominent distinction of being presented to her most gracious Majesty by your Lordship, personally, as the head of her Majesty's Government, the object of which presentation is stated in the Court Circular thus:—'Robert Owen, from the Congress of Delegates of the Universal Community Society of Rational Religionists, soliciting the Government to appoint parties to investigate measures which the Congress proposes, to ameliorate the condition of society,' I take the liberty of forwarding to your Lordship a copy of one of the numerous works issued by the society, of which Mr. R. Owen is the accredited representative, and, in fact, founder. It is the only one I have seen; but I am assured by those who have seen more of their publications, that it is a fair average specimen of their general character and tendency. I have, therefore, felt it my duty to send it to your Lordship, to put you on your guard as to the nature of the people whose chief has already received such an unusual mark of distinction and encouragement at your hands; for I am quite certain that your Lordship could not have been aware that the person introduced into the presence of our beloved, pure, and maiden Queen, was the organ of the society, who, under the specious name of 'Rational Religionists,' repudiate the revealed word of Almighty God, and by way of 'ameliorating the condition of society,' disseminate systematically, works of such disgusting obscenity, and so demoralizing in their tendency. Should your Lordship think fit to honour me with any notice of my communication, should be happy indeed to think I had been the means of giving timely information on a subject of vital concern to the public, that no further encouragement is likely to be afforded to a society of such a character, or any member of it; and that your Lordship has received, without taking offence, what I have felt it my duty as a clergyman thus to state."1178New Moral World,"That he would inquire, but that he regretted the right rev. Prelate had interfered, instead of leaving the matter to the good sense of the country. He regretted that the right rev. Prelate had taken the course he had, for though he would make inquiries, yet he did not anticipate that it would be thought desirable to adopt such measures as, he gathered from the right rev. Prelate's speech, were by him thought necessary to be forthwith adopted."1177The Bishop of Exeter
 Did the letter come from Birmingham?The Marquess of Westminter.
"He had had several interviews with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Spring Rice, on the subject, when he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) assured him that one great inducement to reduce the duty on newspapers was to put down the unstamped press, by making the duty so low that the fair-dealing tradesman should be placed on a level with him who avoided it. But what was more important, that he intended; under the advice of the officers of the Crown, to insert clauses in the intended act to give those powers to Government which would enable them to suppress the unstamped press."1183New Moral World1182"Never has there been a reformer who succeeded as Robert Owen seems likely to succeed. No reformer ever opposed so thoroughly every existing institution and prejudice of mankind, and yet escaped the fangs of the law, the death of a Socrates, the imprisonment of a Galileo, or the clerical abuse of a Paine. While Carlile, Taylor, and other opposers of religion, that have not gone one tenth so far, have been fined and imprisoned to their utter ruin; while Mackenzie and Papineau have been driven from Canada into exile, and a reward offered for their heads; while Stephens, O'Conner, and O'Brien, have been fined, imprisoned, or put under heavy bonds, Owen, who has opposed the whole organization of the present moral world, still roams abroad in all the locomotive power of liberty, even under a protecting act of Parliament" (he believed the Friendly Societies Act), "establishing an institution that will eventually explode every existing government and institution among mankind. The great secret by which he is effecting all this is his superior knowledge of human nature, his superior amiability of conduct, and his superior charity of sentiment in addressing the interests, the prejudices, and the sensibilities of mankind."New Moral World;"That the lecturers Mackintosh and Murphy declared, that they had the assurance of men in office in Birmingham, who had signed the Socialists petition, that they would do all in their power to defend them if proceeded against by the Government, which seemed to inspire them with fresh courage."1181Melbourne."The priesthood frightened them to death by their bugaboos, and then made them pay tithes and church-rates to save them from the Devil.""Crowns and kings are the creations of man; they had a beginning in his ignorance and weakness, they will have an end when that ignorance is dispelled, that weakness is changed into strength. The mysteries of priestly dogmas are also 'creatures of a day;' they have arisen, flourished, and died. Some are already dead, without hope of resurrection. Everywhere their mortal origin is clearly discernible; their final termination may be easily predicted." "Hitherto all legislation and constitution-mongering has proceeded upon the assumption that man is a free agent, and justly responsible to the powers by which he is originally formed, and to his fellow-men for his feelings, convictions, and actions. Religion, law, commerce, education—in short, all the institutions of society, have been based upon this supposed free agency of man. That this is an error equal in magnitude to that of taking two and two to be equal to five, is capable of demonstration to all who prefer the substantial and incontrovertible evidence of facts to the specious but baseless theories of imagination. Fortunately, we live in an age and under a Government when the free expression of opinion upon these subjects is permitted, and when those who advocate changes in social, ecclesiastical, and commercial policy, neither have locks put upon their mouths nor fetters on their limbs."1180J. HOWARD."I am, Sir, your obedient servant,"Rev. Sir,—I am desired by Lord Melbourne to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 13th of July, stating your objections to Mr. Owen's presentation at Court.1179: It certainly did not come from Birmingham, but he believed from some part of Wiltshire, and
"He had had several interviews with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Spring Rice, on the subject, when he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) assured him that one great inducement to reduce the duty on newspapers was to put down the unstamped press, by making the duty so low that the fair-dealing tradesman should be placed on a level with him who avoided it. But what was more important, that he intended; under the advice of the officers of the Crown, to insert clauses in the intended act to give those powers to Government which would enable them to suppress the unstamped press."1183New Moral World1182"Never has there been a reformer who succeeded as Robert Owen seems likely to succeed. No reformer ever opposed so thoroughly every existing institution and prejudice of mankind, and yet escaped the fangs of the law, the death of a Socrates, the imprisonment of a Galileo, or the clerical abuse of a Paine. While Carlile, Taylor, and other opposers of religion, that have not gone one tenth so far, have been fined and imprisoned to their utter ruin; while Mackenzie and Papineau have been driven from Canada into exile, and a reward offered for their heads; while Stephens, O'Conner, and O'Brien, have been fined, imprisoned, or put under heavy bonds, Owen, who has opposed the whole organization of the present moral world, still roams abroad in all the locomotive power of liberty, even under a protecting act of Parliament" (he believed the Friendly Societies Act), "establishing an institution that will eventually explode every existing government and institution among mankind. The great secret by which he is effecting all this is his superior knowledge of human nature, his superior amiability of conduct, and his superior charity of sentiment in addressing the interests, the prejudices, and the sensibilities of mankind."New Moral World;"That the lecturers Mackintosh and Murphy declared, that they had the assurance of men in office in Birmingham, who had signed the Socialists petition, that they would do all in their power to defend them if proceeded against by the Government, which seemed to inspire them with fresh courage."1181Melbourne."The priesthood frightened them to death by their bugaboos, and then made them pay tithes and church-rates to save them from the Devil.""Crowns and kings are the creations of man; they had a beginning in his ignorance and weakness, they will have an end when that ignorance is dispelled, that weakness is changed into strength. The mysteries of priestly dogmas are also 'creatures of a day;' they have arisen, flourished, and died. Some are already dead, without hope of resurrection. Everywhere their mortal origin is clearly discernible; their final termination may be easily predicted." "Hitherto all legislation and constitution-mongering has proceeded upon the assumption that man is a free agent, and justly responsible to the powers by which he is originally formed, and to his fellow-men for his feelings, convictions, and actions. Religion, law, commerce, education—in short, all the institutions of society, have been based upon this supposed free agency of man. That this is an error equal in magnitude to that of taking two and two to be equal to five, is capable of demonstration to all who prefer the substantial and incontrovertible evidence of facts to the specious but baseless theories of imagination. Fortunately, we live in an age and under a Government when the free expression of opinion upon these subjects is permitted, and when those who advocate changes in social, ecclesiastical, and commercial policy, neither have locks put upon their mouths nor fetters on their limbs."1180J. HOWARD."I am, Sir, your obedient servant,"Rev. Sir,—I am desired by Lord Melbourne to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 13th of July, stating your objections to Mr. Owen's presentation at Court.1179The Bishop of Exeter
1196"Victoria Regina.—We, most seriously and religiously considering that it is an indispensable duty on us to be careful above all other things to preserve and advance the honour and service of Almighty God, and to discourage and suppress all vice, profaneness, debauchery, and immorality, which are so highly displeasing to God, so great a reproach to our religion and Government, and (by means of the frequent ill examples of the practices thereof) have so fatal a tendency to the corruption of our loving subjects, otherwise religiously and virtuously disposed, and which, if not timely remedied, may justly draw down the Divine vengeance on us and our kingdom; we also, humbly acknowledging that we cannot expect the blessing and goodness of Almighty God (by whom kings and queens reign, and on whom we entirely rely) to make our reign happy and prosperous to ourselves and our people, without a religious observance of God's holy laws—to the intent, therefore, that religion, piety, and good manners may (according to our most hearty desire) flourish and increase under our administration and government, we have thought fit, by the advice of our Privy Council, to issue this our royal proclamation, and do hereby declare, &c.; and we do expect and require that all persons of honour, or in place of authority, will give good example by their own virtue and piety, and to their utmost contribute to the discountenancing persons of dissolute and debauched lives, &c; and for the more effectual reforming all such persons who, by reason of their dissolute lives and conversations, are a scandal to our kingdom, our further pleasure is, and we do hereby strictly charge and command all our judges, mayors;
11961195l.ex officio"He had been bred in a different school; he had been imbued with the principle slated by Mr. Fox—that on the recurrence of such disorders it was necessary to put the law in force, to proceed against the parties amenable to law; and that there was something in the strength of the law, and the vigour of the constitution under which we lived, sufficient to meet these disorders without violence to the liberties of the country. In that belief he had proceeded; he had followed the views of Mr. Fox, Sir S. Romilly, and Sir J. Macintosh.""No complaints of the disturbed state of the country had been made last session, when he was employed day by day in providing against the dangers that then threatened it He was inclined to ascribe those dangers to the existence of a large and uneducated population in those great cities, which had sprung up within the last 100 years, exposed to the temptations of an advanced state of society, and the violent language of an inflammatory press. It was difficult, then, to stop the excitement created by large meetings and an inflammatory press."1194‡ Ibid. p. 747.† Ibid. p. 713.**"Because we believe that by a seasonable exertion of the laws, as they at present exist, the press cannot be abused to any bad purpose, without incurring suitable punishment.‡""Complained that they were called upon to pass this bill without any information of the inefficiency of the existing law—nay, on the contrary, the documents laid on the table proved, that not merely no extraordinary energy, but that not even common steps had been taken to check the shocking licentiousness that had tainted the press; and that it was not until December, 1818, that any steps had been taken at all."†*1193"The controversies of the numerous sects of Christians, however widely differing from the doctrines of the national church, were completely and rightly tolerated. Nothing in such discussions were considered to be blasphemous; but as to direct and indecent attacks on the truths of the Christian religion, on which the whole constitution of the state was founded, they were severely and justly punishable by the law as it stood, and ought to be most rigorously enforced. The poor man surrounded by his children crying for bread, when he had none to give them, would have no other consolation than by looking forward to the hope which Christianity afforded. How cruel, then, how intolerably
*119311921191"With these convictions, and after long experience of the inefficiency of a system of blind vengeance, injurious alike to the well-being of the state which sanctions, and to the offenders who are compelled to become criminals by the associations with which they are environed, and from which the society that punishes offers them no means of escape, no refuge—I cannot conscientiously lend myself to punishments which all experience has proved
1191"Under the present distressed circumstances of the operative classes, when the influences which surround them are of a nature to stimulate them to actions—conventionally named crimes—it seems peculiarly appropriate to republish the following paper; we recommend the reasoning it contains, to the serious attention of all whose position may place them in the jury box."New Moral WorldSocial Tracts —Man the Creature of Circumstances. No. 4. The Religion of the New Moral World."On the previous evening the deceased told me, that he had been to the Socialist Society, and that he coincided with them in many things, and gave me some papers, which I now produce; they are entitled Social Tracts —Man the Creature of Circumstances. No. 4. The Religion of the New Moral World.1190"I would to God that those who advocate the diabolical doctrines of that arch fiend Robert Owen, could feel even for a brief period the agony—the hopeless, unmitigated agony—which fell upon our family circle from the enacting of the recent horrible tragedy. They might then, perhaps, ask their own hearts how that devilish doctrine deserved the specious appellation of 'Socialism,' which, by inculcating the principle of the non-responsibility of individuals, tacitly justifies such terrible acts as my poor nephew's self-destruction—acts that would shake all society to its base, and by teaching men to live and die only for themselves, would (putting aside higher considerations) destroy at one fell blow all truly' social' principles and feelings. Even the poor deluded boy of whom I write felt somewhat of this; for he says, in his letter to his parents, after speaking of his own disgust of life, 'You will perhaps reproach me for not thinking of your sufferings, but I have weighed them against my own, and have struck the balance in my favour.' What can declare with louder tongue than this, the in-famous character of Socialism? This boy, only fifteen years old—not sixteen, as stated —had been from infancy an exceedingly loving boy; between him and his parents the most glowing affection, as well as the most bound, less confidence, existed; yet he could coolly prepare for them their deadly grief, whose power and extent he must well understand— he could thus readily, to save himself merely the trouble of life, inflict on them, and on all his relations, a wound no time can perfectly heal. Oh, my Lord, the fatal poison had changed a confiding, kind, heart, into a cold concentration of selfishness."primâ facie1189"At Birmingham, a man who, previously to his becoming a Socialist, was a good husband and good parent, after he joined the Socialist body, became so brutal and immoral in his conduct, that at length his wife, having remonstrated with him, he threw her out of
1189"At the Socialist Institution, Birmingham, the female Chartists meet every Monday evening, and the male Chartists every Tuesday evening. At Bradford, the Chartist leader Barker is also an adopted advocate of Socialism, and was sent by the Socialists to oppose Mr. Brindley in his lectures there. At Halifax and other towns in the north it has been the same. The Socialist newspaper, and the Northern Star, the Chartist paper, are both printed at the same place, by Hobson, Leeds. At Dudley, they frequently used the same room as the Chartists, the two bodies being nearly co-extensive.""Success is certain, and an ever increasing happiness is in store for all the poor hell and poverty tormented victims of error and misery. Continue your determined opposition to the old world, its habits, its customs, its religions, its institutions."1188New Moral World,"The proceedings commenced with their 10th hymn, sung to a sacred tune—a parody on one of the hymns of the church service. Mr. Finch then read, as is usual with them on the Sunday, what they call a portion of Scripture. Could not tell what book he pretended to quote; but it was to the disparagement of Christianity, showing how little it had progressed compared with the various heathen systems. Another hymn was then sung, the 32nd in their book, to a sacred tune. The lecture was next given. He said he would take for his text that portion of what was called the Gospel which declared 'He that believeth and is baptised, shall be saved, but he that believeth not, shall be damned.' Gospel signified good news, glad tidings. He would show that the Gospel of the New Testament contained the worst news for man that could be brought him. It represented God as taking delight in damning men throughout eternity, as roasting and frizzling them alive in hell for ever. He was a fierce and cruel God. It spoke also of a devil; but did they believe such nonsense? Did they ever see a devil, or smell a devil, or chew a devil? Then it also told them of a heaven, where the few that reached it were to be engaged in singing and shouting, and falling on their faces and blowing trumpets throughout eternity, who would want such as a heaven as that? He (Finch) believed the whole thing was a fiction. Socialism the only true gospel and he that believes this gospel will be saved from all future want, and care, and toil. The Gospel of the Christians was a mock Gospel. He said much to excite them against their employers and persons of property. Told them, 'They produced all the things which those persons consumed:' that 'they were kept in pining, want, and wretchedness, while the others were rolling in wealth, and living in idleness.' He again referred to the Bible, spoke of David with many obscene expressions, and then ridiculed the psalms which, 'that hypocrite wrote:' said 'the Bible was a most filthy and immoral book;' that 'for one God saved, it told them the devil damned twenty.' 'He could not believe in a God damning us for what he had made us to do and be.'"1187l."Social day and Sunday schools upon the most improved principles, in which facts only shall be communicated unmixed with sectarian principles.""There should be established in each branch a tract committee, whose business it should be to circulate them in every possible way—by gifts, loan, or sale. It may be safely stated, that upwards of half a million copies of various publications explanatory of our principles have been issued during the past year, of which about 360,000 have been published by the Central Board and London Tract Committee.""It is of the utmost consequence to the welfare of the association, that the organ between it and the public should be not only improved in its quality and capabilities for giving intelligence, but also that its publication be so conducted as to insure an increased circulation."New Moral World."Owenism, in one form or other, is at present the actual creed of a great portion of the working classes."London and Westminster Review1186"Though I do not fear the advance of Socialism, properly so called, I look with horror to the fact, that they (the Socialists) are preparing and circulating the most horrible books and tracts, many of them written in a style so specious, as not to disgust the reader, and oftentimes with a kind of pretence to science."1185"Socialism as such is not much increasing; but infidelity is, through the Socialist missionaries, the bitterest enemies of revelation and all established institutions. Their publications are fifty or sixty in number; no fewer than half a million were dispersed in May last, and the circulation of them is greatly increasing. Mere exposure of them will have done harm unless they are put down by the strong arm of law," did not know; he was told they went there. He had got several there, if the noble Lord wished to see them. He had never seen one of those papers that was stamped; and when he told their Lordships that they were sold for 2d., he was quite sure that they could not pay the stamp. But supposing they were stamped, and came within the cognizance of the Government, it could have no difficulty in ascertaining their contents, and he was sure it was the duty of the Government to proceed against them. If the Government ascertained their contents, it must admit, that these periodical publications were the most blasphemous and obscene that the pen of man ever penned. A single conviction would enable the Government to take the strongest course against such publications, it could seize the presses and all the copies, besides inflicting enormous penalties to which the parties were liable. If they were stamped, they might be very easily punished at law. He must say, therefore, that all the observations they had heard of the difficulty of proceeding against those publications fell to the ground. The objection also that prosecution gave publicity fell to the ground, because by these proceedings these publications might be restrained or suppressed by law, and a great part of the injurious matter which they contained would be done away with. Would their Lordships permit him to say what Socialism was? He had spoken of it generally as a scheme of blasphemy and immorality, but in very many instances where it had polluted the minds of individuals it was not found absolutely free from other things. Socialism and Chartism went very much together; but where they did not go together, and where it did not absolutely produce the effect of making all who had access to it, believers of its foul doctrines, even there they found it produce very ruinous effects. A clergyman at Birmingham told him,
1196"Victoria Regina.—We, most seriously and religiously considering that it is an indispensable duty on us to be careful above all other things to preserve and advance the honour and service of Almighty God, and to discourage and suppress all vice, profaneness, debauchery, and immorality, which are so highly displeasing to God, so great a reproach to our religion and Government, and (by means of the frequent ill examples of the practices thereof) have so fatal a tendency to the corruption of our loving subjects, otherwise religiously and virtuously disposed, and which, if not timely remedied, may justly draw down the Divine vengeance on us and our kingdom; we also, humbly acknowledging that we cannot expect the blessing and goodness of Almighty God (by whom kings and queens reign, and on whom we entirely rely) to make our reign happy and prosperous to ourselves and our people, without a religious observance of God's holy laws—to the intent, therefore, that religion, piety, and good manners may (according to our most hearty desire) flourish and increase under our administration and government, we have thought fit, by the advice of our Privy Council, to issue this our royal proclamation, and do hereby declare, &c.; and we do expect and require that all persons of honour, or in place of authority, will give good example by their own virtue and piety, and to their utmost contribute to the discountenancing persons of dissolute and debauched lives, &c; and for the more effectual reforming all such persons who, by reason of their dissolute lives and conversations, are a scandal to our kingdom, our further pleasure is, and we do hereby strictly charge and command all our judges, mayors;
11961195l.ex officio"He had been bred in a different school; he had been imbued with the principle slated by Mr. Fox—that on the recurrence of such disorders it was necessary to put the law in force, to proceed against the parties amenable to law; and that there was something in the strength of the law, and the vigour of the constitution under which we lived, sufficient to meet these disorders without violence to the liberties of the country. In that belief he had proceeded; he had followed the views of Mr. Fox, Sir S. Romilly, and Sir J. Macintosh.""No complaints of the disturbed state of the country had been made last session, when he was employed day by day in providing against the dangers that then threatened it He was inclined to ascribe those dangers to the existence of a large and uneducated population in those great cities, which had sprung up within the last 100 years, exposed to the temptations of an advanced state of society, and the violent language of an inflammatory press. It was difficult, then, to stop the excitement created by large meetings and an inflammatory press."1194‡ Ibid. p. 747.† Ibid. p. 713.**"Because we believe that by a seasonable exertion of the laws, as they at present exist, the press cannot be abused to any bad purpose, without incurring suitable punishment.‡""Complained that they were called upon to pass this bill without any information of the inefficiency of the existing law—nay, on the contrary, the documents laid on the table proved, that not merely no extraordinary energy, but that not even common steps had been taken to check the shocking licentiousness that had tainted the press; and that it was not until December, 1818, that any steps had been taken at all."†*1193"The controversies of the numerous sects of Christians, however widely differing from the doctrines of the national church, were completely and rightly tolerated. Nothing in such discussions were considered to be blasphemous; but as to direct and indecent attacks on the truths of the Christian religion, on which the whole constitution of the state was founded, they were severely and justly punishable by the law as it stood, and ought to be most rigorously enforced. The poor man surrounded by his children crying for bread, when he had none to give them, would have no other consolation than by looking forward to the hope which Christianity afforded. How cruel, then, how intolerably
*119311921191"With these convictions, and after long experience of the inefficiency of a system of blind vengeance, injurious alike to the well-being of the state which sanctions, and to the offenders who are compelled to become criminals by the associations with which they are environed, and from which the society that punishes offers them no means of escape, no refuge—I cannot conscientiously lend myself to punishments which all experience has proved
1191"Under the present distressed circumstances of the operative classes, when the influences which surround them are of a nature to stimulate them to actions—conventionally named crimes—it seems peculiarly appropriate to republish the following paper; we recommend the reasoning it contains, to the serious attention of all whose position may place them in the jury box."New Moral WorldSocial Tracts —Man the Creature of Circumstances. No. 4. The Religion of the New Moral World."On the previous evening the deceased told me, that he had been to the Socialist Society, and that he coincided with them in many things, and gave me some papers, which I now produce; they are entitled Social Tracts —Man the Creature of Circumstances. No. 4. The Religion of the New Moral World.1190"I would to God that those who advocate the diabolical doctrines of that arch fiend Robert Owen, could feel even for a brief period the agony—the hopeless, unmitigated agony—which fell upon our family circle from the enacting of the recent horrible tragedy. They might then, perhaps, ask their own hearts how that devilish doctrine deserved the specious appellation of 'Socialism,' which, by inculcating the principle of the non-responsibility of individuals, tacitly justifies such terrible acts as my poor nephew's self-destruction—acts that would shake all society to its base, and by teaching men to live and die only for themselves, would (putting aside higher considerations) destroy at one fell blow all truly' social' principles and feelings. Even the poor deluded boy of whom I write felt somewhat of this; for he says, in his letter to his parents, after speaking of his own disgust of life, 'You will perhaps reproach me for not thinking of your sufferings, but I have weighed them against my own, and have struck the balance in my favour.' What can declare with louder tongue than this, the in-famous character of Socialism? This boy, only fifteen years old—not sixteen, as stated —had been from infancy an exceedingly loving boy; between him and his parents the most glowing affection, as well as the most bound, less confidence, existed; yet he could coolly prepare for them their deadly grief, whose power and extent he must well understand— he could thus readily, to save himself merely the trouble of life, inflict on them, and on all his relations, a wound no time can perfectly heal. Oh, my Lord, the fatal poison had changed a confiding, kind, heart, into a cold concentration of selfishness."primâ facie1189"At Birmingham, a man who, previously to his becoming a Socialist, was a good husband and good parent, after he joined the Socialist body, became so brutal and immoral in his conduct, that at length his wife, having remonstrated with him, he threw her out of
1189"At the Socialist Institution, Birmingham, the female Chartists meet every Monday evening, and the male Chartists every Tuesday evening. At Bradford, the Chartist leader Barker is also an adopted advocate of Socialism, and was sent by the Socialists to oppose Mr. Brindley in his lectures there. At Halifax and other towns in the north it has been the same. The Socialist newspaper, and the Northern Star, the Chartist paper, are both printed at the same place, by Hobson, Leeds. At Dudley, they frequently used the same room as the Chartists, the two bodies being nearly co-extensive.""Success is certain, and an ever increasing happiness is in store for all the poor hell and poverty tormented victims of error and misery. Continue your determined opposition to the old world, its habits, its customs, its religions, its institutions."1188New Moral World,"The proceedings commenced with their 10th hymn, sung to a sacred tune—a parody on one of the hymns of the church service. Mr. Finch then read, as is usual with them on the Sunday, what they call a portion of Scripture. Could not tell what book he pretended to quote; but it was to the disparagement of Christianity, showing how little it had progressed compared with the various heathen systems. Another hymn was then sung, the 32nd in their book, to a sacred tune. The lecture was next given. He said he would take for his text that portion of what was called the Gospel which declared 'He that believeth and is baptised, shall be saved, but he that believeth not, shall be damned.' Gospel signified good news, glad tidings. He would show that the Gospel of the New Testament contained the worst news for man that could be brought him. It represented God as taking delight in damning men throughout eternity, as roasting and frizzling them alive in hell for ever. He was a fierce and cruel God. It spoke also of a devil; but did they believe such nonsense? Did they ever see a devil, or smell a devil, or chew a devil? Then it also told them of a heaven, where the few that reached it were to be engaged in singing and shouting, and falling on their faces and blowing trumpets throughout eternity, who would want such as a heaven as that? He (Finch) believed the whole thing was a fiction. Socialism the only true gospel and he that believes this gospel will be saved from all future want, and care, and toil. The Gospel of the Christians was a mock Gospel. He said much to excite them against their employers and persons of property. Told them, 'They produced all the things which those persons consumed:' that 'they were kept in pining, want, and wretchedness, while the others were rolling in wealth, and living in idleness.' He again referred to the Bible, spoke of David with many obscene expressions, and then ridiculed the psalms which, 'that hypocrite wrote:' said 'the Bible was a most filthy and immoral book;' that 'for one God saved, it told them the devil damned twenty.' 'He could not believe in a God damning us for what he had made us to do and be.'"1187l."Social day and Sunday schools upon the most improved principles, in which facts only shall be communicated unmixed with sectarian principles.""There should be established in each branch a tract committee, whose business it should be to circulate them in every possible way—by gifts, loan, or sale. It may be safely stated, that upwards of half a million copies of various publications explanatory of our principles have been issued during the past year, of which about 360,000 have been published by the Central Board and London Tract Committee.""It is of the utmost consequence to the welfare of the association, that the organ between it and the public should be not only improved in its quality and capabilities for giving intelligence, but also that its publication be so conducted as to insure an increased circulation."New Moral World."Owenism, in one form or other, is at present the actual creed of a great portion of the working classes."London and Westminster Review1186"Though I do not fear the advance of Socialism, properly so called, I look with horror to the fact, that they (the Socialists) are preparing and circulating the most horrible books and tracts, many of them written in a style so specious, as not to disgust the reader, and oftentimes with a kind of pretence to science."1185"Socialism as such is not much increasing; but infidelity is, through the Socialist missionaries, the bitterest enemies of revelation and all established institutions. Their publications are fifty or sixty in number; no fewer than half a million were dispersed in May last, and the circulation of them is greatly increasing. Mere exposure of them will have done harm unless they are put down by the strong arm of law,"The Bishop of Exeter
12031202New Moral World,1201ExeterExeter:1200Exeter:11991198Exeter:1197 thought it perfectly consistent with those feelings of disgust which he expressed on a former occasion, at many of the circumstances and much of the language introduced to their notice by the right rev. Prelate, and which expressions of disgust he then repeated—he thought it perfectly consistent with those feelings of disgust, if he endeavoured to convince their Lordships that the right rev. Prelate had stated no grounds for the very extraordinary step which he had called upon their Lordships to take on this occasion. The right rev. Prelate founded this proceeding upon what he called doubt and distrust of the conduct of Government on this subject, and he thought he should be able to prove, that the right rev. Prelate, in the few isolated statements from letters, which he called evidence, which had been adduced, had made out no case, and had stated no grounds for this proceeding. The right rev. Prelate had, he would not say perverted, but certainly misrepresented, although, no doubt, unintentionally, the language which he had addressed to their Lordships on a former occasion. The right rev. Prelate stated, that he had concluded by saying, that he did not think it probable that he should feel himself called upon to take those steps which the right rev. Prelate had recommended. Now, he begged their Lordships to recollect what was the tone of the right rev. Prelate on that occasion, and what were the steps recommended. There was no question for their Lordships to decide as to what Government ought to do when illegal acts
12031202New Moral World,1201ExeterExeter:1200Exeter:11991198Exeter:1197The Marquess of Normanby
1207"Vice is a monster of such hideous mien,
That to be hated needs but to be seen."120612051204 had no intention of entering into a discussion of this question that night, and at that late hour, as he was sensible that nothing he could say, could add to the force of that very clear and very full statement which had been made by his right rev. Friend, or that he could add to any of the arguments in the statement which was so powerfully illustrated by his more than usual eloquence; nor should he endeavour to add to the horror with which their Lordships must have heard that statement; but he should think himself wanting in his duty if he could suffer that opportunity to pass without expressing his thanks to the right rev. Prelate for the exposure of those doctrines. The right rev. Prelate was certainly entitled to the thanks of the country, for the eloquence and the ability with which he had called their Lordships' attention to this most important subject, for most important he did maintain it
1207"Vice is a monster of such hideous mien,
That to be hated needs but to be seen."120612051204The Archbishop of Canterbury
particeps criminis should not have taken any part in this debate, but for the allusion which the noble Marquess had made to the presence of a clergyman of the Church of England at the meeting of the Socialists at Birmingham, where the most impious and horrible doctrines were proposed for discussion, and openly maintained. That clergyman was described by the noble Marquess as being a party to the transaction. Indeed the construction which the noble Marquess seemed to put upon the conduct of the rev. gentleman was, that he was a particeps criminisThe Bishop of Llandaff
1208 begged to explain. All that he had stated of the clergyman to whom the right rev. Prelate referred was, that he was a party to the discussion. He was informed that the rev. gentleman had arranged the form and manner of the discussion. He was, undoubtedly, opposed to the principles of the Socialists, but he came forward to argue against them. He took a prominent and conspicuous part in the proceedings. Mr. Murphy was the chief on the one
1208The Marquess of Normanby
1214ll1213Exeter1212 was induced, upon the ground stated by the noble Duke, not to oppose this motion. He thought that these discussions had come to a pass that made it expedient that some inquiry should take place; he thought that they had come to such a pass that it would operate mischievously upon the country, if it were supposed that the vices of the system of Socialism had
1214ll1213Exeter1212The Marquess of Lansdowne
12101209 having fully expressed his opinion upon this subject on a former occasion, should not have felt it necessary to trespass again for one moment on their Lordships' time, but for one or two allusions that had been made to him in the course of the debate of that evening. The right rev. Prelate, as an additional reason for charging the Government with neglect upon this subject, had referred to a very brief reply which he had given to a clergyman who had sent a letter to him, enclosing the title of one of Mr. Owen's pamphlets. He had answered that letter according to his usual custom, and if the charge of discourtesy could be maintained in this instance, he feared it would equally obtain in many others. But he wished it to be understood that when he replied to letters of this description, it was not to be supposed that previous to his reply he had taken full cognizance of the matter to which such letters might relate. In this instance, after all that had occurred, he did not know that he could blame himself for not having departed from his usual practice; because it would seem that if he had answered the letter more fully his reply would have been used by the reverend gentleman to whom it was addressed, and very probably have been brought against him in that House. With whatever justice he might be accused of having acted discourteously, he certainly did not think he could be charged with having acted unwisely, in the answer he had given. What had occurred would certainly teach him additional caution in his correspondence with gentlemen of that character. With respect to the general question, he had only to say, as he had stated on a former occasion, that he thought these opinions of the Socialists in the highest degree dangerous, and every way deserving the most serious attention of the Government. The right rev. Prelate, however, had a great advantage over the Government in bringing the subject forward; because the Government could not argue the question without appearing to sanction the system, and the man by whom it was propounded. This they had no intention of doing. The doctrines of this Mr. Owen, as far as they related to religion, were improper, licentious, and,
12101209Viscount Melbourne
 Are these newspapers unstamped? Do they go to the Stamp-office?Viscount Melbourne.
: I need not say one word as to the reception of the petition which my noble and learned Friend has just presented. Of course it is known to all your Lordships, that every person who complains of a wrong done, and all persons who conceive that they are suffering under an injury, have the undoubted, the undisputed right to state that injury, and to ask redress at the hands of the House. But, at the same time, I feel it my duty to rise and say, that I do not at all agree with, or acquiesce in, the observations of my noble and learned Friend. It is impossible to mistake or misapprehend the scope, the meaning, the force, of his observations. It is impossible not to feel that those observations contained a complete and decided censure on what we know by their votes to have been the course pursued by the other House in vindication of their just—in vindication of what they considered their just—privileges. Now, my Lords, considering the nature of that question—the quarter in which it has arisen—the parties who are principally engaged in it —I think that my noble and learned Friend would have acted more wisely, more prudently, and with more propriety—admitting, as my noble Friend does, that this House has not the power to interfere—if he had altogether abstained from making the observations which he has just addressed to your Lordships.Viscount Melbourne
1173"My Lord,—I have the satisfaction to acquaint your Lordship that the army under ray command have succeeded in performing one of the most brilliant acts it has ever been my lot to witness, during my service of forty-five years in the four quarters of the globe in the capture, by storm, of the strong and important fortress and citadel of Ghuznee yesterday. It is not only that the Affghan nation, and, I understand, Asia generally, have looked upon it as impregnable, but it is in reality a place of great strength, both by nature and art—far more so than I had reason to suppose from any description that I had received of it, although some are from officers in our own service who had seen it in their travels. It is, therefore, the more honourable to our troops, and must appear to the enemy out of all calculation extraordinary, that a fortress and a citadel to the strength of which for the last thirty years they had been adding something each year, and which had a garrison of 3,500 Affghan soldiers, commanded by Prince Mohammed Hyder, the son of Dost Mohammed Khan, the ruler of the country, with a commanding number of guns and abundance of
1173"TO THE RIGHT HON. LORD AUCKLAND, G.C.B., &c. &c.117211711170: I rise to bring forward the subject of which I have previously given notice. Some days have elapsed since that notice was given; but I have deferred bringing the subject forward, that your Lordships might have the opportunity of reading the papers which have been laid upon the table of the House. I feel convinced that the perusal of those papers will induce your Lordships to concur with me on the subject, and agree with me in the resolution I am about to propose; and will also relieve me from the necessity of addressing many observations on that resolution. I know not whether your Lordships have read the mass of important matter which has been laid upon the table; but I am sure that you are acquainted with the principal events relative to the affairs of India—of the expedition across the Indus—of the attempt of the British army to relieve Candahar and Cabool —to drive Dost Mahommed Khan from a country, the dominion of which he had usurped—to place that King on the throne who was entitled to it, and who was favourable to British interests. If your Lordships have read the papers, I am sure you will see sufficient reason to agree with me in the resolution I am going to propose, from the facts which are there stated, and sufficient reason also, that, merely in relation to the subjects to which they refer, I am strictly absolved from now entering on any political considerations. I shall, on the present occasion, entirely refrain from the consideration of all political matter, and shall confine myself exclusively to the military account of that expedition, which has been brought to so happy a termination by the Government of India, and by
1173"My Lord,—I have the satisfaction to acquaint your Lordship that the army under ray command have succeeded in performing one of the most brilliant acts it has ever been my lot to witness, during my service of forty-five years in the four quarters of the globe in the capture, by storm, of the strong and important fortress and citadel of Ghuznee yesterday. It is not only that the Affghan nation, and, I understand, Asia generally, have looked upon it as impregnable, but it is in reality a place of great strength, both by nature and art—far more so than I had reason to suppose from any description that I had received of it, although some are from officers in our own service who had seen it in their travels. It is, therefore, the more honourable to our troops, and must appear to the enemy out of all calculation extraordinary, that a fortress and a citadel to the strength of which for the last thirty years they had been adding something each year, and which had a garrison of 3,500 Affghan soldiers, commanded by Prince Mohammed Hyder, the son of Dost Mohammed Khan, the ruler of the country, with a commanding number of guns and abundance of
1173"TO THE RIGHT HON. LORD AUCKLAND, G.C.B., &c. &c.117211711170Viscount Melbourne
11751174: My Lords, considering the relation in which I have stood throughout the greatest part of my life, towards those officers and a great part of those troops who are now thought deserving of your Lordships' approbation, your Lordships will forgive me for the presumption of offering myself at this early period of discussion to claim for a few minutes your attention. My Lords, I cannot sufficiently express my approbation of the prudence, foresight, and discretion of the noble Viscount, in offering the observations which he selected for the address which he has just made to your Lordships in proposing this motion. My Lords, it is perfectly true, that this House has for some time had under its consideration, a vast number of the papers which might be the means of giving a knowledge of the political arrangements which have occurred in India, which have rendered necessary this war, and which have been carried into effect by the expedition which has been so gloriously achieved. There may be, and it is thought that there is, throughout the country a great difference
11751174The Duke of Wellington
1211 till lately had known nothing whatever about these Socialists. His attention was first directed to them by a petition which was sent to him to present to their Lordships' House having reference to the presentation of of Mr. Owen at court by the noble Viscount at the head of the Government. He declined to present the petition, because he knew nothing about the matter, and did not choose to embark himself in the support or discussion of a subject of which he had no knowledge. Having intimated this to the petitioner, he received a communication in reply, containing a full statement of what Socialism was. By this means he obtained a knowledge of the system; he saw some of the books published by the society, and became aware of the doctrines they advanced; and, having obtained this information upon the subject, he must say that the right rev. Prelate had not in any way exaggerated the viciousness of the system. It appeared to have spread itself over a
1211The Duke of Wellington
 was only anxious to say, that the great difficulty of this question turned on the exact meaning of the phrase "non-intrusion." He hoped, that ho measure proposed by the Government would confer on the people the arbitrary power of rejecting a minister capriciously and without due cause.The Earl of Haddington
1289128812871286 thought that the greater part of the observations which had been made by the noble Lord had better have been reserved until the returns for which the noble Lord moved had been made to their Lordships, and it would then be seen whether the navy was or was not in the state which the noble Lord had represented. He would most readily acquit the noble Lord of being influenced by anything like a factious motive in making the present motion, but at the same time he must say, it appeared rather strange that some such motion had not been made during the whole time of those reformations which had almost reduced it to the lowest ebb. When the pressure of economical measures was so great as to induce the Government to withhold the necessary supplies for maintaining that sort of establishment, upon which the efficiency of our navy mainly depended— when those popular reformations were taking place, and those large reductions were made, there had not been heard one word in reprobation of the measures. It was only since a larger demand had been made upon the country—when stores were amply supplied, when ships were thoroughly repaired, and when the fleet had been nearly doubled—it was only then that those returns were moved for, only then that complaints were made of the danger with which the country was threatened from the inefficiency of the navy. Through many of the ob-
1289128812871286The Earlof Minto
12981297said, that holding the high rank which he had the honour to hold in the profession, he could not avoid offering a few observations to their Lordships. If he consulted his own inclinations, he should not, at that late hour, trouble the House. But, as it seemed to him, France had awoke from her slumbers like a giant refreshed, and had held out her arm towards this country with something like a threat. Now, so far from being in a state I of profound peace, we were in such a state, that the French Minister of Marine had prepared the country in a very short time for entering on service, for he observed, that in the expenses stated to be wanted in the current year, the Minister had alluded to the necessity of the navy being in a state to meet one of three things—a state of war, a stale of peace, and another to meet the exigencies which might arise and had arisen. An announcement had been made from the throne extremely agreeable to hear—that our relations with foreign countries remained undisturbed. He did not know how far their Lordships could feel that to be the case: he left them to decide. But they all knew the uncertainty of human life, and if, unfortunately, the King of the French should die, how long was it possible to say, that we should be at peace with France? He did not treat this as a party question at all; but it was clear where the shoe pinched. The Government had not exerted themselves sufficiently, or aroused themselves from that apathy in which they had been long plunged in regard to the state of naval affairs. How was our commerce to be carried on, if, in the case of a war breaking out, we did not maintain that determined and decided superiority at sea which, in the late war, we had the good fortune to possess? There was a time when, in consequence of the great and glorious victories obtained under a Wellington and a Nelson, followed up by the victories of those who fought under their banners, that our commerce was carried into every corner of the world. Could that be expected to be the case now, if we did not start at the commencement of a war with a superiority at sea? The great difficulty, he thought, existed in the state of our finances. He thought that it was high time that something should be done. When he saw the sum which it would require to put our navy on that respectable footing in which it ought to be, and reflected that a much larger sum had been sacrificed to the silly and ridiculous project
12981297Lord Colville
1309 said, that the noble Lord had thought proper to attack him for a misapplication of patronage, and had given, as an instance, the appointment of Admiral Fleming to Greenwich Hospital. That appointment was not exactly within his department, but he was not disposed to flinch from any responsibility attaching to it. He thought Admiral Fleming well worthy to hold the office. He challenged the noble Lord to enter into an investigation as to the manner in which he had distributed patronage. When the noble Lord spoke of the abuse of patronage, he did not know what was coming. He thought the House was doomed to hear the Plumridge case again. He only wished that when the noble Lord thought he had got a fair case against him for abuse of patronage, he would state it. The
1309The Earl of Minto
 inquired whether it were true, as had been frequently reported, that Admiral Fleming had never been engaged with the enemy? He asked the question, because it appeared to him that to entitle an officer to the highest situation of emolument and honour, it was essential that he should be distinguished.Lord Ellenborough
 did not know how often Admiral Fleming had been engaged with the enemy, if at all. He believed that Admiral Fleming had been in action, but should be sorry to pledge himself to the statement. This he knew, that Admiral Fleming had from his youth seen service of the most active kind. He was distinguished for his skill and intelligence, and very few officers in the navy had discharged more arduous and useful duties than Admiral Fleming.The Earl of Minto
: As the noble Lord does not know whether Admiral Fleming, now promoted to a high situation of honour and emolument, was ever in an engagement, I take for granted that the noble Viscount opposite made inquiries respecting the merits of this officer before he appointed him to an office for which, no doubt, many distinguished officers competed. I therefore now ask the noble Viscount to stale whether this officer was ever engaged with the enemy.Lord Ellenborough
: That may be true; but fighting, and fighting with distinction, is that which entitles officers to places of honour and emolument.Lord Ellenborough
1295ll12941293Minto129212911290 could not agree with the noble Lord who had just sat down, that we were at present in a state of profound peace, that there were no signs of approaching war, no symptoms calculated to create alarm, and that our position was so perfectly secure as to leave us nothing to think of but the quiet and peaceful enjoyment of our own firesides, that there was nothing to call our attention to the state of our dependencies abroad, or to the defence of our country at home. How could the noble Lord talk of 40 sail-of- the-line at a moment's readiness, when there was a fleet in the Mediterranean and another proceeding to China? What could the noble Earl have been thinking of when he asked why no complaint had been made before? Why, the reason was obvious. There had been no complaint because all was in a state of peace. War was not talked of, or even hinted at, and not only was there peace, but there was satisfaction also, and not the remotest supposition of a war existed in the mind of any man. Could this be said now? Were not our American colonies in a most unsettled state? If noble Lords followed through the whole line of the American coast, they would find a French squadron carrying on a sort of buccaneering expedition. Last year it was exhibited at San Juan d'Ulloa, and this year at Monte Video. Then again, passing on to India, could it be said that we were in a state of peace? Look then to China, where it was found necessary to send out a squadron, which, if our naval resources were such as the noble Lord would have the House think, ought by this time to be half way on its mission. Was there no war in India? For what, then, was the vote of thanks passed on Monday night, to the army which had so signalized itself there? Was that peace, he begged to ask? Had not the House and the country a right to put these questions to the noble Earl opposite? The noble Earl had then proceeded to state
1295ll12941293Minto129212911290The Earl of Hardwicke
 rose in explanation. He had said this in arguing with the noble Lord on bringing forth his forty-sail of the line. He (the Earl of Hardwicke) stated, that the Navy-officers had not at this time equal experience, generally speaking, with the officers of the French navy; and he did it for this reason: it required some explanation, because the noble Lord put it forth as if some aspersion had been cast by him (the Earl of Hardwicke) on his brother officers. He did it for this reason—that the French navy had no more officers than were necessary to command their ships, and to carry on service on shore; therefore, they came into service a-float in rotation. Look at our navy: an order in council obliged the officers to serve six years, and, therefore, the officers of a certain standing in the service, who would be the officers in time of war (for the old officers of the past war were past the service), had not the experience of the French officers.The Earl of Hardwicke
No, no said that what the noble Viscount had said seemed very like an endeavour to throw upon him the imputation of having made remarks which must render him odious to his brother officers. ["No, noThe Earl of Hardwicke
 believed the real facts to be, that Admiral Fleming did command the Egyptienne frigate in Sir R. Calder's action, but that he never commanded a ship of the line in any general engagement, or any frigate in a single action with the enemy. There were in the Navy List nine admirals above him, who had been engaged in actions with honour and distinction. He begged to say, that if Admiral Fleming had been put in active command of a fleet, not a word would have been said against such an appointment. As to the latter part of the motion, with respect to the number of ships ordered to be built, he should omit it.Lord Colchester
1285"The steam-packet owner looks only to the splendour of the saloon and the velocity of the vessel. It is upon these alone, that he depends for success; the safety of the passengers is altogether lost sight of; to insure speed the fabric of the vessel is made as light and flimsy as possible to hold together.""In some vessels, materials of inferior description and perishable quality are employed; in others, the connection of the parts is ineffective, the fastening injudicious or scanty, or the workmanship negligent."128412831282equipages des bailments armsetats majorsà Merregiment d'InfanterÍeartillerie de la Marineàterre," equipages de ligneen commission de radeen disponsibilité12811280 rose to call the attention of the House to a subject which he had brought before their Lordships in the course of the last Session. He had, at that time, endeavoured to call the attention of their Lordships and of the country to the undefended state of our own shores, and he believed it would be found on inquiry that very little change had since taken place. 'It was, therefore, his intention to move for certain documents principally in continuation of those given last Session to show the present state of our naval defence. In making this motion, he might lay himself open to the imputation which had fallen upon others, that he was actuated by party motives; either that, for the sake of attacking Ministers, he was describing a weakness in our naval force that did not exist, or which, if it did
1285"The steam-packet owner looks only to the splendour of the saloon and the velocity of the vessel. It is upon these alone, that he depends for success; the safety of the passengers is altogether lost sight of; to insure speed the fabric of the vessel is made as light and flimsy as possible to hold together.""In some vessels, materials of inferior description and perishable quality are employed; in others, the connection of the parts is ineffective, the fastening injudicious or scanty, or the workmanship negligent."128412831282equipages des bailments armsetats majorsà Merregiment d'InfanterÍeartillerie de la Marineàterre," equipages de ligneen commission de radeen disponsibilité12811280Lord Colchester
12791278 presented petitions from Cromarty and several other places in Scotland, against the intrusion of ministers into the Church of Scotland. All these petitions prayed that no ministers should be intruded on the Parishes in Scotland without the consent of the parishioners. Their Lordships, perhaps, knew, in some degree, the agitation and excitement that existed in Scotland on the subject of these petitions. He said in some degree, because he believed that noble Lords, not personally
12791278The Earl of Aberdeen
, as some measure on this subject was under the consideration of Government, would not press the matter further. He hoped, however, that when such a measure was brought forward it would be adopted by the Cabinet, and would not be treated as an open question; because, if it were so treated, the Church and the country would be apt to question the sincerity of the Government.The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, the noble Lord opposite, in alluding to the supposed dangers of the country in 1829 and 1830, had mentioned the French expedition to Algiers, undertaken, as that noble Lord represented, in spite of the representations and remonstrances of the noble Duke; and the noble Lord also stated, that the possession of that territory now constituted a source of danger and apprehension to the country. The noble Lord was quite mistaken in his facts. The noble Duke made no representation or remonstrance against that expedition—none whatever. The noble Duke did that which was better. He obtained a pledge from the French government, that if they succeeded in that expedition they should derive from it no advantage which should not be shared by the rest of Europe, and that no settlement should be made in that territory by France without the concurrence of her allies. If that pledge had not been given, that expedition, the noble Lords might be assured, would never have taken place; and, let him add too, that that pledge would have been fulfilled to the noble Duke. But the French government now knew with whom they had to deal. They knew that they might safely trust either to the indifference or apprehensions of the Government opposite.The Earl of Aberdeen
: I do not think so.Viscount Melbourne
Name1310: I do not know. Taking into consideration Admiral Fleming's general services, we thought him worthy of the situation he now holds. I beg the House to recollect that many distinguished officers have never been in
Name1310Viscount Melbourne
13021301 continued.—That was what he (Viscount Melbourne) had said, that the officers of the navy had not the experience of the French officers; and the noble Earl went on and attacked the spirit of those officers, and stated that from
13021301Viscount Melbourne
No, no !13001299 had certainly not expected so lengthened a debate to occur on this occasion, and was therefore not prepared for it; but some observations had been made by the noble Lord, and particularly by the noble Lord who had addressed their Lordships last but one (Earl Hardwicke), of such a nature, of such a character, and of such a description, that it was impossible for him to pass them over in silence. He had begun by stating, that in recent times to which he had referred no attention had been paid to this subject—that no attention had been paid to the state of the navy—that no remark had been made about the diminution of its forces, because everything was calm and quiet, and everybody was satisfied because perfect peace prevailed in Europe—because the minds of all men were perfectly satisfied. When was this, he begged to ask? What times did the noble Earl mean? What times did the noble Earl refer to? He declared, that since the termination of the French war he remembered no such times. The noble Earl referred to the Administration of the noble Duke (Wellington). Did he refer to his Administration in 1828 and 1829, when Russia was marching on Constantinople? Did he refer to those periods as exhibiting no danger and no reason to look for war? At that period the noble Duke had only been restrained from actually interfering in the affairs of Europe because he believed that Russia would fail. Did the noble Earl allude to 1830, the year of the termination of the administration of the noble Duke—the year when, contrary to every representation of the noble Duke, the French entered into that expedition to Africa which was now spoken of as the most dangerous to this country? He asked to what period he referred, when it was possible for us to
No, no !13001299Viscount Melbourne
 was aware of the great importance and deep interest of the subject to which the noble Earl had called the attention of their Lordships. The matter was under the consideration of Government, and probably a measure would be introduced on the subject. Ministers had not, however, made up their minds on the question, and not having determined on the course which they meant to pursue, it would be highly inexpedient, for him to enter into any explanations at that moment.Viscount Melbourne
130813071306Melbourne130513041303: The noble Earl at the head of the Admiralty had said, very truly, that the proper time for discussing this subject, in order to ascertain whether the fleet was equal to all the services which might be required of it, was after these papers had been laid on the Table, but lie must say, that this was not the only question which their Lordships were called upon to consider on this occasion. They must look a little at the state of the services which had been required of the navy for the three or four last years, and see how those services had been performed. That was the real question, and it was an answer, in a great degree, not only to the observations of the
130813071306Melbourne130513041303The Duke of Wellington
 said, that as to the first question of the noble Duke, he had no objection to produce such a return; and as to the second question, he had to state, that it was the intention of Government to bring in a measure to amend the Constabulary Bill. It would be shortly brought into Parliament, and he expected to have it in his hands tomorrow. The new measure would rot only affect the details, but the machinery of the bill; and would be calculated to relieve certain classes who were at present unjustly taxed.The Marquess of Normanby
, when the bill came up from the House of Commons, would have no objection to refer it to a select committee.The Marquess of Normanby
 recommended that any measure introduced on this subject should be referred to a select committee. The parish constables might, he thought, be rendered far more efficient than they were at present.The Duke of Richmond
 wished to know whether his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Home Department, had any objection to lay before the House a return of those places where a rural police had been established? And also whether her Majesty's Government intended this Session to bring in a measure to amend the Constabulary Bill?The Duke of Richmond
32 said, he had the honour to present to their Lordships some petitions on the subject of the society of Socialists. The first was from a social community in Hampshire, praying their Lordships to examine Mr. Owen at their bar with respect to the principles of the society. The second was from a similar community in Liverpool to the same effect. The next petition was from several inhabitants of Brighton, who were not members of the society, but who also called for inquiry; and lastly, from inhabitants of Hereford, not members of the society, who likewise requested inquiry. He was not present at the discussion which took place on this subject a few
32Earl Stanhope
83New Moral World"Also any paper printed in any part of the United Kingdom, weekly or oftener, or at intervals not exceeding twenty-six days, containing only or principally advertisements; and also any paper containing any public news, intelligence, or occurrences, or any remarks or observations thereon, printed in any part of the United Kingdom for sale, and published periodically, or in parts or numbers or shall be published for sale for a less sum than 6d.New Moral WorldThe Times,82New Moral World said, the noble Baron had complained that he had made a statement to their Lordships upon half information. The noble Baron, however, had himself come down to that House with Jess than half information in reference to what he (the Bishop of Exeter) had stated on a former occasion; or on that occasion as the noble Baron might have learned had he taken the trouble to inquire fully into the matter, he had made no charge, no complaint whatever, against the Stamp-office. All he had said was, that the Government must have been cognizant of the existence of the 83New Moral World"Also any paper printed in any part of the United Kingdom, weekly or oftener, or at intervals not exceeding twenty-six days, containing only or principally advertisements; and also any paper containing any public news, intelligence, or occurrences, or any remarks or observations thereon, printed in any part of the United Kingdom for sale, and published periodically, or in parts or numbers or shall be published for sale for a less sum than 6d.New Moral WorldThe Times,82New Moral WorldThe Bishop of Exeter
Saturday MagazineSaturday Magazine.Monteagle had only to remark upon that observation of the noble Baron's which related to the publication of the British and Foreign School Society. He was not cognizant of that publication; but he thought it was not a publication within the short period required by the statute—namely, twenty-six days. If it did come within that period, then he had not the slightest hesitation in saying, that it appeared to him as much open to the charge of being a newspaper as the one to which he had alluded as being so. If the noble Baron did not know that to be the case, surely he might as well have talked of anything else not in the remotest degree connected with the subject.—[Lord Saturday MagazineSaturday Magazine.MonteagleThe Bishop of Exeter
85 said, he had to ask a question, somewhat connected with the subject just discussed. It would be in the recollection of their Lordships that en a former occa-
85The Bishop of Exeter
 said, that when ha saw Mr. Pare, he told him the particular allegations which had been made against him by the right rev. Prelate, informing him that he would give him an opportunity of answering those allegations. He at the same time explained to him, that whatever his answer would be, it would not affect his ultimate decision, as to how far, being ostensibly connected with such a society, he was or was not a fit person to remain in the office he then held, but that he reserved that point until Mr. Pare should have an opportunity of making a denial. That denial he told Mr. Pare was to be made, not to him, but to the registrar-general. That communication, he understood, Mr. Pare had made to the registrar-general, the substance of which was contained in the petition that had been presented to their Lordships. Mr. Pare having made what he considered an adequate denial of the particular allegations against him, then tendered his resignation.The Marquis of Normanby
New Moral World86 did not wish to press upon a fallen man. He had ceased to be a public officer, and he should let the matter rest there. But there was an individual mixed up with these transactions who required to be defended. The petition alluded to, made statements against Mr. Foy, from whom he had received a letter denying every one of those statements, and saying he was ready to prove on oath directly the contrary. That was not the only contradiction he had received of those statements. He had also received letters from highly respectable individuals having no connexion whatever with Mr. Foy, who said they were present at one of
New Moral World86The Bishop of Exeter
 could only say, as regarded himself, that he had merely stated the fact that Mr. Pare had presented such a memorial. He had pronounced no opinion upon it, nor had he considered it a matter for inquiry beyond the question of Mr. Pare himself, and his fitness or unfitness for the office he held.The Marquess of Normanby
Western Vindicator,Exeter.84 wished to say a few wards in explanation. If this publication was received at the Stamp-office, and if it ought to be stamped, the officers of stamps became responsible if they did not prosecute for the injury done to the revenue. Taking, therefore, the right rev. Prelate's view of the law, it was dear that he distinctly repeated his complaint against the Stamp-office. If, because a paper was sent to the Stamp-office for the purpose of counting the advertisements which it contained, the Government or the Stamp-office was to be held responsible for the doctrines which it advocated, he would leave it to their Lordships, who must see at every club house a variety of these publications, to say whether, in common sense and candour, any charge: could be brought against the Government for not knowing everything which those innumerable publications contained. The right rev. Prelate had taken upon himself to say what the law was in reference to these publications, and he had said, that any publication containing information as to the progress of Socialism was to be considered a newspaper under the statute. If the doctrine of the right rev.
Western Vindicator,Exeter.84Lard Monteagle
8180New Moral Worldcustos morum—79New Moral WorldExeter—"No, no.New Moral World., in presenting petitions from Lambeth and Tooting, for inquiry into the doctrines and the proceedings of the Socialists, said, that he hoped he might be allowed to avail himself of that opportunity to make a few observations on what had fallen from a right rev. Prelate (the Bishop of Exeter) in reference to the Stamp-office on a former occasion. He was anxious to give some explanation, as what had fallen from the right rev. Prelate was calculated to give rise to erroneous impressions and to be productive of pain to individuals. He was sure that it was not the intention of the right rev. Prelate to mislead their Lordships, and he wag convinced that if the right rev. Prelate had been fully aware of the facts of the case, the statement to which he alluded would not have been made. The statement was this:—The right rev. Prelate had brought under their Lordships' consideration a certain weekly publication on which he had adverted in terms of strong condemnation; but not stronger he must say, than the publication deserved. The paper to which the right rev. Prelate alluded was called the 8180New Moral Worldcustos morum—79New Moral WorldExeter—"No, no.New Moral World.Lord Monteagle
169 presented a petition from certain persons, attorneys, for whose respectability he could vouch, stating that they had paid great attention to the publications of the Socialists, and they were desirous of directing the attention of the House to the subject. More particularly they wished to draw their Lordships' attention to a publication entitled the "Social Bible," which contained matter of a highly objectionable nature; and praying their Lordships to adopt further legislative measures to prevent the propagation of Socialist principles. He thought it right to state, in presenting this petition, that he should have entirely concurred in the prayer of it if he had not believed that the existing laws, if properly administered, were quite sufficient to put a stop to any enormities which might be committed by the publishing of blasphemous immoral publications, and he believed that the noble Marquess, the Secretary of State for the Hume Department, was sincere in the declaration he had made of his inten-
169The Bishop of Exeter
 thought it would be more satisfactory if the rules and regulations were made by the magistrates at quarter sessions than by the visiting justices. He thought this would be a good opportunity for the adoption of a recommendation he made some time ago, namely, that gaols and houses of correction should be exempt from payment of the Queen's taxes, which he thought was a great hardship on the rate-payers, and he hoped the Government would on this subject show they were aware of the great additional taxes which were pressing on them.The Duke of Richmond
 had already given directions for the preparation of a bill for the purpose of correcting the evils complained of with respect to prisons and poor-houses. With respect to the present bill, all that was intended was to allow visiting justices to act differently with respect to debtors confined in criminal prisons to what they did with respect to others who were incarcerated criminally.The Marquess of Normanby
 trusted that the noble Marquess would not put into the bill any suggestions with respect to workhouses, otherwise a noble Lord (Lord Stanhope), who was not now in his place, would come down and say that workhouses were prisons.The Duke of Richmond
173172l171170 rose, in consequence of a notice he had given on a former evening, and also in consequence of a notice he had given at the latter end of last Session, to bring before their Lordships a question with regard to railroads, and the better supplying of the Metropolis with water. Their Lordships might think it extraordinary that be should couple the two questions
173172l171170The Marquess of Westminster
174 of Lansdowne, understanding that the noble Marquess did not intend to pledge himself or the House to any remedial measures that might be suggested, either with regard to the dangers of railway travelling, or to the inconveniences resulting from the nature of the supply of water to the metropolis, thought that if the inquiry now proposed were not attended by any positive advantage—of which he owned he did not see any very great probability—it certainly could not be accompanied by any possible disadvantage; and, for that reason, he should not feel it necessary to oppose it. It was almost impossible that some accident should not take place on railroads. From
174The Marquess
 explained, that with regard to railways, his object was to ascertain whether it would not be possible to introduce some kind of machinery which should prevent the possibility of such accidents as he dreaded upon high embankments.The Marquess of Westminster
 said, that it would be better to divide the subjects; to appoint a committee to consider of the supply of water; and to leave the subject of railways alone till some specific plan could be suggested for guarding against the accidents to which the noble Marquess referred.The Earl of Haddington
 yielding to what appeared to be the general sense of the House, consented to confine his motion solely to the supply of water, and a Select Committee to take into consideration the supply of water to the metropolis was appointed.The Marquess of Westminster,
 objected to this strange union of subjects—railways, supply of water, and sewers, all of them, no doubt, of very considerable importance, but having, as it appeared to him, no sort of connection with each other.Lord Ashburton
 observed, that, however advantageous the supply of good and pure water to the metropolis might be, still it should be considered that the sinking of Artesian wells upon a large scale was likely to be accompanied with great detriment to those who lived in the neighbourhood of them, by drying up all the inferior springs. He knew that great apprehensions were entertained upon that source at Watford.The Earl of Essex
176 hoped that the noble Marquess would withdraw that part of his motion which related to railways. The inquiry upon that head could not possibly be attended by any good, whilst it would certainly have the effect of putting the country to a very great expense. If it were possible to invent a machine to
176The Duke of Richmond
 observed, that, for their Lordships to go into committee to speculate as to the possibility of inventing a machine to prevent a danger that had never yet occurred, appeared to him to be a most useless occupation of their Lordships' time. He certainly thought that a matter of this kind had much better be left to the ingenuity and interest of the parties concerned.The Earl of Aberdeen
175 thought that the noble Marquess had completely failed to establish any kind of connection between the three several subjects to which he proposed to call the attention of a committee. And, in addition to that, he must say, that he did not think that the noble Marquess had made out any sort of ground for the first part of his inquiry, namely, the discovery of some kind of security against unforeseen dangers upon, railways. He hardly knew how such an inquiry was to be entered upon. The noble Marquess himself admitted that none of the kind of accidents that he contemplated had as yet occurred. With what advantage, then, could their Lordships enter upon an inquiry as to the probable means of meeting a probable
175The Earl of Aberdeen
 thought that there was also some objection to the second part of the noble Marquess's motion; because, from the way in which the noble Marquess had put it, it would appear, that the object of the motion was to allow certain companies to put forward their plans at the expense of the public. This would be attended by a double injustice. Suppose, for instance, that their Lordships' Committee should report in favour of the supply of water from Watford, and a bill were to be introduced for that purpose, would not this place the inhabitants of Watford under a very great difficulty, if it should be their interest to oppose such a measure?Lord Redesdale
243 was not aware of the intention of the noble Marquess to present this petition to-night; and although he yesterday saw the petition in the newspapers, yet, not having been previously acquainted with it, he had not had an opportunity of giving that consideration to the subject-matter of it which he was desirous of doing, before he expressed an opinion upon the many important topics it involved. He thought it must be matter of disappointment to the petitioners, the noble Marquess having undertaken to present the petition, that he should not have been able to broach any opinion whatever with respect to the expediency or inexpediency of complying with any one portion of his prayer. He must say, from the cursory view he had been able to take of the matter, that there appeared to be a very great deal of reason in many of the complaints, and many of the demands made by the petitioners. It did appear to be a very great grievance that, at Ceylon, the cotton goods of Great Britain should be charged with a duty of 5 per cent, only, while those of India should be charged with duties varying from ten to twenty per cent. In one point of view, however, the Indian Government had the remedy in their own hands; and if the Imperial Parliament would not act with generosity and liberality towards India, as the Indian Government had acted with regard to British commodities imported into that country, it must be expected that that Government would act in obedience to their first duty, which was that of consulting the benefit of the people of India. If it should be found that the Imperial Parliament would not act with reciprocity towards India, the consequence
243Lord Ellenborough
246 said, it was not his intention to trespass long on the attention of their Lordships; but whatever appellation might be given to him by noble Lords, whether that of a decided Carlist or of any other sect, he believed there was no individual subject of the realm more anxious than himself that this auspicious event should carry with it every possible happiness to their illustrious Sovereign, and be of the greatest advantage to the country. He had offered himself to their Lordships' notice, from a circumstance connected with the illustrious Prince now, happily for himself, and happily, he hoped, for the country, united with her Majesty. It was a circumstance which, if they could judge of the child from the sire, was most propitious. He had had the honour, many years ago, when ambassador at Vienna, to be intimately acquainted with the illustrious father of the Prince; and he could fairly say, that amongst the great princes assembled at that time there was not an individual of higher principles, higher character, or greater worth; and he would venture to hope that the illustrious Prince inherited all those eminent qualities which so greatly distinguished his father, whom they had the happiness to see in this country on this auspicious occasion. He hoped also the noble Viscount would give their Lordships the satisfaction on this occasion of carrying up the address to her Majesty by the whole House. On a former occasion, many of their Lordships were disappointed that they had not had notice, and were thus prevented from attending. He hoped that on the present occasion the noble Viscount would do them justice, and allow the whole body of the House to go up, and that the noble Viscount would inform them of the time of meeting. He could not forget
246The Marquess of Londonderry
244 begged to state, in explanation, that the noble Lord must have misunderstood him exceedingly, if he had understood him (the Marquess of Lansdowne) to say that no measure could be founded upon this petition, or upon these representations. The petitioners, with whom he had communicated on the subject previously to presenting the petition, could not be disappointed with any explanation or omission of explanation, inasmuch as he had told them that it was not in his power, neither would it be fitting in the present state of the finances of the country, for him to declare any opinion as to what might be done in consequence of their petition. The noble Lord must be aware that it would be exceedingly unwise for them to excite any expectations which could not afterwards be realized. He fully agreed with the noble Lord in opinion as to the duty of Parliament attending to the interests of the Indian people, and taking into their
244The Marquess of Lansdowne
242ss241240 would take the opportunity of presenting a petition of the greatest importance, not only in consideration of the body from whom it came, but
242ss241240The Marquess of Lansdowne
245 said, the conviction which the noble Viscount had expressed, that this motion would meet with the unanimous assent of their Lordships, rendered him unwilling to permit this occasion to pass without giving expression to the feelings of sincere satisfaction which were felt by noble Lords on his side of the House. He could not help saying that the circumstances under which this connection had been formed were most fortunate. It was very fortunate that persons in the exalted situation of her Majesty should be enabled to gratify those
245The Earl of Aberdeen
"That a humble Address be presented to her Majesty to congratulate her Majesty on the auspicious occasion of her Majesty's marriage, and to assure her Majesty of the great satisfaction which this House feels at an event which is a fresh instance of her Majesty's regard for the interests of her people, and of so much importance to her Majesty's domestic happiness, and to the welfare of the country." rose to propose an Address of congratulation to her Majesty on her marriage. He was so certain that there would be an unanimous feeling upon the subject which he was about to propose to their Lordships, that he did not think it necessary to occupy their Lordships' time by making any prefatory observations. He should, therefore, proceed to move
"That a humble Address be presented to her Majesty to congratulate her Majesty on the auspicious occasion of her Majesty's marriage, and to assure her Majesty of the great satisfaction which this House feels at an event which is a fresh instance of her Majesty's regard for the interests of her people, and of so much importance to her Majesty's domestic happiness, and to the welfare of the country."Viscount Melbourne
 believed, that on the occasion to which the noble Marquess had referred, the usual notice was given. The motion was printed in the votes, and that was all the notice that was ever given on such occasions, and all that could be required. The same course would be pursued on the present occasion.Viscount Melbourne
"That a Message be sent to his Royal Highness Prince Albert of Saxe Coburg and Gotha, to congratulate his Royal Highness upon his marriage, and to express the joy and satisfaction which this House feels, upon seeing the ardent wishes of a faithful people fulfilled by her Majesty's wise and happy choice, and by her union to a Prince distinguished by a descent so illustrious, and by a character formed to support and adorn his exalted station; and that the Lord President, the Marquess of Anglesea, and the Earl of Ripon, do carry the said message.": I have now to move your Lordships—
"That a Message be sent to his Royal Highness Prince Albert of Saxe Coburg and Gotha, to congratulate his Royal Highness upon his marriage, and to express the joy and satisfaction which this House feels, upon seeing the ardent wishes of a faithful people fulfilled by her Majesty's wise and happy choice, and by her union to a Prince distinguished by a descent so illustrious, and by a character formed to support and adorn his exalted station; and that the Lord President, the Marquess of Anglesea, and the Earl of Ripon, do carry the said message."Viscount Melbourne
247"That a Message be sent to her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, to congratulate her Royal Highness upon the marriage of her Majesty; an event so deeply interesting to the maternal feelings of her Royal Highness, and I so conducive to the happiness of her Majesty;
247: I believe, my Lords, that there is no exact precedent for the course I am about to pursue; but when I state what it is, I apprehend that there will be no difference of opinion amongst your Lordships as to its propriety. Indeed the only blame I can impute to myself upon the point is, that I did not foresee the propriety of it some time ago, and give your Lordships due notice of it. The course that I propose is, that considering the near relationship that exists between her Majesty and her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, a congratulatory Message on this occasion be sent to her Royal Highness. I have, therefore, to move your Lordships,
247"That a Message be sent to her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, to congratulate her Royal Highness upon the marriage of her Majesty; an event so deeply interesting to the maternal feelings of her Royal Highness, and I so conducive to the happiness of her Majesty;
247Viscount Melbourne
309 said, there had been laid on the table certain despatches, which were printed on the 21st of January, relative to the War in Affghanistan, and the noble Viscount had moved a vote of thanks to the officers alluded to in those despatches. Since that vote had passed other despatches had been received from Major-general Willshire, containing an account of a most brilliant exploit—the capture of Khelat by storm. No doubt if those despatches had been received with the others, they also would have been laid on the table, and the noble Viscount would have included the officers in that vote of thanks. He would, therefore, suggest to the noble Viscount, whether he would not now lay on the table the further despatches, and also move the thanks of the House to Major-general Willshire and the officers under his command. He would also mention another part of the subject. When the war took place in Ava, the thanks of the
309Lord Ellenborough
"To the right rev. the Bishop of Exeter."A. IRVINE.'Your obedient servant,I have the honour to be, my Lord,310"The population of my parish exceeding 30,000 souls, there is large scope in it for the Socialists, who, I fear, are doing much mischief. They have Sunday meetings for lectures, &c, and dances, not of the most decent kind on the Sunday evenings. It is impossible, there-
310"After making this statement, and expressing my regret at Mr. Owen's introduction to the Queen, I offered to communicate any other circumstances that might arise connected with the subject. His Lordship simply directed his secretary to acknowledge the receipt of my letter, and from that day to this there has been no further communication."As an instance of the evil effects of their proceedings, I stated to his Lordship, that a youth of fifteen years of age, a teacher in my Sunday School, was in a public office with another clerk, about nineteen years old, who was a lecturer in the Socialists' Institution, whither he took him more than once to hear some blasphemous addresses. He then gave him a paper containing many Scripture texts, chiefly denouncing God's judgments against the Canaanites, and added this injunction, 'Read these texts, and consider them carefully, and if, after that, you deny that God Almighty is a regular beast, you are a beast yourself, and have no understanding.'"My Lord,—In July last I took the liberty of informing Lord Melbourne that the Socialists were making efforts to extend themselves in Liecester, and had advertised for a larger school-room, not a little encouraged by the countenance of the Prime Minister, in introducing Mr. Owen to the Queen."St. Margaret's, Leicester, Feb. 11, 1840. wished to ask the noble Viscount at the head of her Majesty's Government whether, in July last be had received a letter from the rev. Andrew Irvine, of St. Margaret's Leicester, to the effect which he should now beg leave to read. The right rev. Prelate then read the letter as follows:—
"To the right rev. the Bishop of Exeter."A. IRVINE.'Your obedient servant,I have the honour to be, my Lord,310"The population of my parish exceeding 30,000 souls, there is large scope in it for the Socialists, who, I fear, are doing much mischief. They have Sunday meetings for lectures, &c, and dances, not of the most decent kind on the Sunday evenings. It is impossible, there-
310"After making this statement, and expressing my regret at Mr. Owen's introduction to the Queen, I offered to communicate any other circumstances that might arise connected with the subject. His Lordship simply directed his secretary to acknowledge the receipt of my letter, and from that day to this there has been no further communication."As an instance of the evil effects of their proceedings, I stated to his Lordship, that a youth of fifteen years of age, a teacher in my Sunday School, was in a public office with another clerk, about nineteen years old, who was a lecturer in the Socialists' Institution, whither he took him more than once to hear some blasphemous addresses. He then gave him a paper containing many Scripture texts, chiefly denouncing God's judgments against the Canaanites, and added this injunction, 'Read these texts, and consider them carefully, and if, after that, you deny that God Almighty is a regular beast, you are a beast yourself, and have no understanding.'"My Lord,—In July last I took the liberty of informing Lord Melbourne that the Socialists were making efforts to extend themselves in Liecester, and had advertised for a larger school-room, not a little encouraged by the countenance of the Prime Minister, in introducing Mr. Owen to the Queen."St. Margaret's, Leicester, Feb. 11, 1840.The Bishop of Exeter
: Did the noble Viscount take any steps in consequence of that letter?The Bishop of Exeter
: Did the noble Viscount consider that any steps were or were not necessary to be taken?The Bishop of Exeter
" It will be satisfactory to your Lordship to learn that the clerk in the railroad office, who tried to corrupt my Sunday-school teacher, was, in consequence of my representations, immediately examined by the Board of Directors, and, as he avowed a resolute adherence to his principles, even declaring himself so utterly irresponsible for his conduct, that he should feel justified in robbing them, if he thought fit to do so, and that the law which would punish him was a bad law—he was dismissed from his situation."312"Social Institution.—Wanted to rent a large house, in a central situation, with a warehouse or premises attached, suitable for a school."311 would beg leave, in presenting a petition, to make some few observations on the remarks which had just fallen from the noble Viscount. The noble Viscount at the head of her Majesty's Government had assented, after a long debate, to an address which recognized the necessity of a full inquiry being gone into with respect to the evils of Socialism. The noble Viscount, however, declared to-night, that, in his opinion, the House acted unwisely in taking that step. He sincerely wished that the noble Viscount bad had the manliness, on the night when that motion was made, to state that the course adopted was imprudent, if he thought so. Looking to the high station in which the noble Vis-
" It will be satisfactory to your Lordship to learn that the clerk in the railroad office, who tried to corrupt my Sunday-school teacher, was, in consequence of my representations, immediately examined by the Board of Directors, and, as he avowed a resolute adherence to his principles, even declaring himself so utterly irresponsible for his conduct, that he should feel justified in robbing them, if he thought fit to do so, and that the law which would punish him was a bad law—he was dismissed from his situation."312"Social Institution.—Wanted to rent a large house, in a central situation, with a warehouse or premises attached, suitable for a school."311The Bishop of Exeter
313 had said, when the letter was read the other day, stating that an officer of the Government had been present at a place where he heard blasphemy, that it would have been better, that it would have been more natural, and more according to his duty, if the clergyman was aware of a servant of the
313The Marquess of Normanby
314 said, that from the information he had received, the number of members did not exceed 300 or 400, but there were hangers on, and "The population of my parish" said the clergyman, exceeding 30,000 souls, there is a large scope in it for the Socialists, who I fear are doing much mischief; they have Sunday meetings for lectures; and dances, not of the most decent kind, on Sunday evenings." There were many drinking copiously of the deleterious draught—meaning these blasphemous lectures—every Sunday, and yet it was said, that there were no instructions given to the police beyond an order to check illegal outward acts. Whilst he had pointed out that, in the end, these doctrines must lead to breaches of the peace, and to the disruption of society, yet he
314The Bishop of Exeter
316"There are 218 cargoes all ready for shipment to British ports, and the property of British subjects. They were all brought down for shipment in the natural belief that we had a Government at home that would succour and protect us, and put an end to this iniquitous blockade. These cargoes are daily perishing under our eyes, and will ultimately become worthless."315 said, that when on a former evening he had asked the noble Viscount opposite, whether he had any objection to produce any communication from the Board of Trade or Treasury, or from any fiscal board, on the subject of the probable effect on the revenue of the proposed inland warehousing system, the noble Viscount answered, that such communications were unusual. Now, to show that they were not at all unusual, he held in his hand a communication of the 26th or August last, relative to certain sugars then in bond, in which the opinion of the Board of Customs was directly addressed to the Board of Trade. He would take that opportunity of giving notice, that on Monday next he should bring under the consideration of the House the disadvantages under which the British trade on the coast of Africa laboured at this moment. He had frequently called their
316"There are 218 cargoes all ready for shipment to British ports, and the property of British subjects. They were all brought down for shipment in the natural belief that we had a Government at home that would succour and protect us, and put an end to this iniquitous blockade. These cargoes are daily perishing under our eyes, and will ultimately become worthless."315Viscount Strangford
 asked, whether the noble Viscount objected to receiving this communication? The noble Marquess, the Secretary for the Home Department, had complained, that a clergyman, instead of imparting information to him, had given it to others.The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, he did not object to this communication. On the contrary, he was obliged to the rev. Gentleman for his communication; but he had not answered it because he was desirous of avoiding a controversy on the subject. He was afraid, however, that the right rev. Prelate would frustrate his object.Viscount Melbourne
 said, this would lead to an argument on the whole subject, which he was very unwilling to enter into; but certainly, in his opinion, it was not necessary to answer the communication. Indeed, he very much questioned the prudence of the course which this House had adopted with respect to this question.Viscount Melbourne
: No.Viscount Melbourne
: I did receive the letter.Viscount Melbourne
 had no objection to lay the fresh despatches on the table, and to amend the vote so as to include the officers engaged in the capture of Khelat.Viscount Melbourne
begged to ask the noble Marquess, the President of the Council, whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Ministers to accede to his intended motion for referring the petition of the East India Company to a Select Committee.Lord Ellenborough
wished to know from the noble Earl at the head of the Admiralty, whether he had received any official accounts of the transactions that had been represented as having recently taken place in China.The Duke of Buckingham
said, that he had received no official account of the transactions referred to by the noble Duke at the Admiralty. He had, however, received private information, from which he felt bound to say, that he considered the accounts that were now before the public to be in effect substantially correct.The Earl of Minto
wished also to know whether any steps had been taken in consequence of the death of Sir Frederick Maitland?The Duke of Buckingham
said, that, in consequence of the death of that gallant officer, Admiral Elliot had been ordered to act.The Earl of Minto
427426rose in pursuance of
427426Viscount Strangford
433said, that after hearing what had fallen from the noble Viscount opposite, he would ask permission of the House to withdraw his motion. But, at the same time, he would beg to remind the noble Viscount that he had suggested to him the propriety of a declaration, whether he was or was not acting in direct opposition to those men who were best informed on the subject. He thought the course hinted at by the noble Lord
433Viscount Strangford
was understood to say, that he never was more puzzled than in endeavouring to comprehend how there could be any possible objection to the production of these reports. He could, not see how any evil results were likely to spring from the simple declaration of these two boards as to the effect of inland warehousing on the general revenues of the country. He could not see the danger of divulging of secrets which seemed to be apprehended on the other side; and as to the objection that the motion, if successful, would tend to facilitate smuggling, in his opinion the smugglers neither of this, nor indeed of any other country, required much assistance derived from information of this description.Lord Ashburton
thought that the precedent sought to be established by the noble Viscount would most materially limit the powers of Parliament.Lord Ashburton
said, that they would have heard nothing of opposition to the production of those papers had the Government not been going in direct opposition to the opinion of their own officers. It was impossible for their Lordships to legislate prudently unless they had information in some manner or other.Lord Ashburton
said, that it might be more advisable to wait until the Government had duly considered the several important topics contained in the petition; but if the noble Baron chose to press his motion for a Select Committee, it would not be opposed by her Majesty's Ministers. At the same time, it was not expedient for him to state what were the points to which the attention of the Government had been principally directed. There were many subjects connected with the petition, such, for instance, as the more free importation of East-India goods, which were of essential importance, and which ought to be well considered. In his opinion, there might be inconvenience in hurrying this question forward, since there were several topics connected with it which were likely to affect the revenue and the system of foreign customs. He should be sorry if any step were hastily taken that would interfere in any way with those great principles of commerce which had been successfully acted on. He was ready to attend to any suggestion that the committee which the noble Lord intended to move for might make to the House, and he would render any services in his power for the purpose of conducting the inquiry which the noble Lord proposed.The Marquess of Lansdowne
"I return the House of Lords my warmest thanks for the message which you have now delivered. I learn with lively satisfaction their approbation of the choice which her Majesty has made, and it will be the study of my life to justify the favourable opinion which you have now expressed."reported to the House that he, and the other noble Lords appointed to attend his Royal Highness Prince Albert of Saxe Coburg and Gotha with the congratulatory message sent from that House on the happy occasion of the nuptials of her Majesty, had attended his Royal Highness accordingly, and that his Royal Highness was pleased to say—
"I return the House of Lords my warmest thanks for the message which you have now delivered. I learn with lively satisfaction their approbation of the choice which her Majesty has made, and it will be the study of my life to justify the favourable opinion which you have now expressed."The Marquess of Lansdowne
"I receive with great satisfaction this mark of the attention and regard of the House of Lords, which is most gratifying to my feelings, and I return them many thanks for their congratulations."also reported that her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent had been waited on with the congratulatory message sent from that House on the happy occasion of the nuptials of her Majesty, and that her Royal Highness was pleased to say,
"I receive with great satisfaction this mark of the attention and regard of the House of Lords, which is most gratifying to my feelings, and I return them many thanks for their congratulations."The Marquess of Lansdowne
430429428said, that having been for some years connected with one of the boards to which the noble Viscount bad referred, he naturally felt considerable
430429428The Earl of Clarendon
432felt anxious to say a
432Lord Monteagle
431said, that the noble Viscount, in alluding to what had fallen from him upon a former occasion, with, reference to the state of the finances, had qualified very materially the admission which he had made in the debate in question. He was of opinion, that neither upon questions of finance, nor upon any other matter whatsoever, could any advantage result from concealment, or from not stating to the full extent the difficulties with which the country might have to contend.
431Viscount Melbourne
"I thank you for this dutiful and affectionate address. I feel deeply your approbation of my choice, and it gives me great satisfaction to find that an event so essential to my domestic happiness is also considered conducive to the interests of my people."reported her Majesty's answer to their Lordships' congratulatory address of Friday last as follows:—
"I thank you for this dutiful and affectionate address. I feel deeply your approbation of my choice, and it gives me great satisfaction to find that an event so essential to my domestic happiness is also considered conducive to the interests of my people."The Lord Chancellor
 begged leave to put two questions to the noble Viscount, which, if he was not then prepared to answer, he would perhaps answer on Monday next. The first was, whether it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to accompany the papers relative to China with any message from the Crown, which would open the whole course of policy recently pursued towards that country? The second question was, whether her Majesty's Government had formed any arrangement with the East India Company, fixing the proportion of charge of any intended expedition by this country and the East India Company against China?Lord Ellenborough
"That the order of the 4th of February, namely, 'that the thanks of this House be given to Major-General Sir Willoughby Cotton, Knight Grand Cross of the most hon. Military Order of the Bath, and to the several officers of the army, both European and Native, for their good conduct and gallant exertions during the late operations to the westward of the Indus,' be read and discharged.", in-conformity with the suggestion which had been thrown out on a former night, moved,
"That the order of the 4th of February, namely, 'that the thanks of this House be given to Major-General Sir Willoughby Cotton, Knight Grand Cross of the most hon. Military Order of the Bath, and to the several officers of the army, both European and Native, for their good conduct and gallant exertions during the late operations to the westward of the Indus,' be read and discharged."Viscount Melbourne
 said, he did not rise to offer any opposition to the motion, but he wished to put a question connected with the subject of the war in India to the noble Viscount. He believed that one of the motives of the expedition to the westward of the Indus was to prevent the threatened attack on Herat by the Persians. Now, he wished to know, whether, since that, any intelligence had been received that the chief of Herat had come to an understanding with the Persian Government, and had rejected the protection and assistance proffered to him by the British Government?The Earl of Aberdeen
 answered, that no intelligence had been received to the extent indicated by the noble Earl; but intelligence had arrived which was calculated to excite suspicion with respect to the government of Herat.Viscount Melbourne
434 answered, that as to the first point, no message would be gent down; and as to the second, he
434Viscount Melbourne
"Since the departure of Consul Lieutenant Colonel C. L. Fitzgerald, nothing has occurred worthy of remark, except the renewal of the lease, by the Spanish to the French government, for two years of the King's, or Hospital Island, situate in the centre of this port, with its hospital and its appurtenances, at a monthly rent of 16 dollars, with the reserve, in case Spain should not have occasion for it."l508"A report of the Committee of state on the occupation of the King's Islet, in Port Mahon, by the French has been read, and was approved without discussion. The proposition on which the report was founded was to the effect, that the measure adopted by the Government with respect to this island should be suspended; and the committee declare, that they have observed with the greatest regret the steps that have been taken by the Government on the subject. It appears, the Committee state, that the French have for some time rented the island from the local authorities as a depôt for coal, and as it is now likely to be more necessary to them than ever, on account of their occupation of a portion of the coast of Africa, the French Ambassador at this court received instructions from his Government to apply to the government of her Catholic majesty for the use of the buildings on the island for a fixed period. The Government consulted the authorities of the island, and although their report was unanimously against acceding to the request, it was granted by the Government, on account of its being politically convenient not to deny this favour to an ally, when on the other hand, the inconveniences attending the refusal of it were taken into consideration. The French government were therefore permitted to hold the premises in question for the term of two years, renew-
l508, seeing the noble Viscount in his place, was desirous to ask him a question respecting what was called the temporary occupation by the French of King's Islet, near Minorca, in Port Mahon. When on a former occasion an inquiry was made relative to this point, the noble Viscount said, he was quite assured that the papers which would be laid before their Lordships would be found to give a perfectly satisfactory explanation. Now, he must declare that those papers were not at all satisfactory to him, and to show why they were not, he begged leave to refer to the despatch (No. 4.) from Sir George Villiers to Viscount Palmerston, dated November 4, 1837. It was there slated:—
"Since the departure of Consul Lieutenant Colonel C. L. Fitzgerald, nothing has occurred worthy of remark, except the renewal of the lease, by the Spanish to the French government, for two years of the King's, or Hospital Island, situate in the centre of this port, with its hospital and its appurtenances, at a monthly rent of 16 dollars, with the reserve, in case Spain should not have occasion for it."l508"A report of the Committee of state on the occupation of the King's Islet, in Port Mahon, by the French has been read, and was approved without discussion. The proposition on which the report was founded was to the effect, that the measure adopted by the Government with respect to this island should be suspended; and the committee declare, that they have observed with the greatest regret the steps that have been taken by the Government on the subject. It appears, the Committee state, that the French have for some time rented the island from the local authorities as a depôt for coal, and as it is now likely to be more necessary to them than ever, on account of their occupation of a portion of the coast of Africa, the French Ambassador at this court received instructions from his Government to apply to the government of her Catholic majesty for the use of the buildings on the island for a fixed period. The Government consulted the authorities of the island, and although their report was unanimously against acceding to the request, it was granted by the Government, on account of its being politically convenient not to deny this favour to an ally, when on the other hand, the inconveniences attending the refusal of it were taken into consideration. The French government were therefore permitted to hold the premises in question for the term of two years, renew-
l508The Marquess of Londonderry
 presented a petition from individuals connected with certain small charities, whose right to administer the same had ceased and determined by the Municipal Corporation Act, complaining that the expense of appointing trustees under the Act was more than the funds of the charities could bear, and praying for some measure of relief. The noble Marquess called the attention of the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack particularly to this subject.The Marquess of Westminster
 wished to know if the French had erected any building in the island besides dépôts and hospitals? Whether any edifice had been raised there that was not strictly in accordance with the terms of the lease?Lord Ellenborough
lll514"At a public meeting of officers in San Sebastian, Colonel Wylde said, that he stood before them in a twofold capacity, viz. as 'a commissioner from the Queen of England, and as a commissioner from the Queen of Spain,' and that he was authorized by her Britannic Majesty's Minister at Madrid, to pledge himself that a portion of pay should be issued before they left Spain, and that they should receive good bills for the remainder. Colonel Wylde and Brigadier-General Tena afterwards gave to each paymaster a warrant to estimate for and pay their officers to the day when their arrears should be settled in good bills or cash. A similar warrant was also given to Deputy Commissary-General Black, for the payment of officers of the staff, &c. In consequence of these assurances, a number of officers and men were induced to enter the new Legion, the conditions of service for which were also signed by Colonel Wylde."(Signed) "W. WYLDE, Colonel.""The officers of the British Auxiliary Legion, whose term of service expires this day, will be entitled to billets, pay, and rations, until they are settled with, and vessels provided to convey them to England,513l"As I perceive you are shortly to bring the affairs of Spain before the House of Lords, I trust your Lordship will not allow the opportunity to pass without inquiring of the Government whether there is any chance of the claims of the unfortunate men who served in the British Auxiliary Legion being liquidated. There is above 200l512Melbourne, "Oh, no! rose to address their Lordships on another question. Though it might be somewhat irregular, he should solicit the indulgence of their lordships whilst he said a few words on the claims which the British Auxiliary Legion had on the Spanish Government—claims which, up to this hour, were unsettled. He could assure their Lordships, that he was not about to make any attack upon her Majesty's Government. He thought they must have had enough of attacks—attacks sufficient to sicken, nay, to kill, half-a-dozen Governments. [Viscount lll514"At a public meeting of officers in San Sebastian, Colonel Wylde said, that he stood before them in a twofold capacity, viz. as 'a commissioner from the Queen of England, and as a commissioner from the Queen of Spain,' and that he was authorized by her Britannic Majesty's Minister at Madrid, to pledge himself that a portion of pay should be issued before they left Spain, and that they should receive good bills for the remainder. Colonel Wylde and Brigadier-General Tena afterwards gave to each paymaster a warrant to estimate for and pay their officers to the day when their arrears should be settled in good bills or cash. A similar warrant was also given to Deputy Commissary-General Black, for the payment of officers of the staff, &c. In consequence of these assurances, a number of officers and men were induced to enter the new Legion, the conditions of service for which were also signed by Colonel Wylde."(Signed) "W. WYLDE, Colonel.""The officers of the British Auxiliary Legion, whose term of service expires this day, will be entitled to billets, pay, and rations, until they are settled with, and vessels provided to convey them to England,513l"As I perceive you are shortly to bring the affairs of Spain before the House of Lords, I trust your Lordship will not allow the opportunity to pass without inquiring of the Government whether there is any chance of the claims of the unfortunate men who served in the British Auxiliary Legion being liquidated. There is above 200l512Melbourne, "Oh, no!The Marquess of Londonderry
516515, made a K.C.B.—Evans, Brigadier-General, appointed Military Secretary to the Governor of Madras.—M'Dougal, Sir Duncan, Brigadier-Ge-
516515Sir De Lacy Evans, Lieut.-General 
l521 disclaimed all intention of asserting that the employment of these officers in the service of the Queen of Spain was to be a bar to their promotion in the service of the
l521The Marquess of Londonderry
 said, that ns the noble Viscount had thought fit to deny the production of those papers which had passed between the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, and the War-office, he would not at present press the matter further.The Marquess of Londonderry
510 said, that the matter was one of considerable importance. It was not the first time the French had endeavoured to establish a footing in the island. They had requested permission to place a dépôt there ten years ago, but the Spanish Government then refused its permission to allow the French to form any such establishment. The noble Earl had said, that the matter had excited a great deal of alarm and of interest in Spain. Those feelings, in his opinion, were very natural. The noble Earl had also stated, that the Opposition in the Cortes had taken up the question. Surely, it was very natural that they should, and he was afraid that the Opposition in their Lordships' House would also find it necessary to take it up, in order to show that it was a point which might lead to very serious consequences. The Cortes committee had recommended that if the
510The Earl of Aberdeen
Aberdeen511 was not aware that the French had erected any other. He believed that the Spanish Government would not allow the erection of any building whatsoever of a military cha-
Aberdeen511The Earl of Clarendon
520519518Londonderry517 said, it was very satisfactory to find that these unfortunate men, who had been so long and so unceasingly the objects of the keenest vituperations of the noble Earl, and on whose conduct he could not formerly bestow a single word of approbation, had now be-
520519518Londonderry517The Earl of Clarendon
509 could not see
509The Earl of Clarendon
523522 in the few observations which he meant to address to their Lordships would confine himself to
523522Viscount Melbourne
 said, he did not know they could prevent the French from establishing themselves on the island, with the concurrence of the Spanish Government. If the French had endeavoured to settle themselves in the island of Minorca, he thought the jealousy of the House and of the country might fairly have been roused. Their possession of this islet was, however, a very different matter. In his opinion they had no ulterior objects in view; and, certainly, if they entertained any such, they had acquired no very great facilities for carrying them into effect.Viscount Melbourne
507 admitted that the grievance was one which deserved the serious consideration of the Legislature.
507The Lord Chancellor
"Victrix causa diis placuit sed victa Catoni."558557556555554l.l.l.,717£616,638Total
717£616,638Total082,001Payments and civil contingencies made to Colonels Wylde and Lacy
082,001Payments and civil contingencies made to Colonels Wylde and Lacy03238Medical and surgical materials
03238Medical and surgical materials00530Extra charge caused by Artillery, Engineers, Sappers, and Miners
00530Extra charge caused by Artillery, Engineers, Sappers, and Miners00192Intrenching tools, &c, to Royal Sappers and Miners
00192Intrenching tools, &c, to Royal Sappers and Miners001,678Arms, &c, to British Auxiliary Legion
001,678Arms, &c, to British Auxiliary Legion006,769Arms, &c, to Spanish Government
006,769Arms, &c, to Spanish Government0437,302Extra charges of our navy
0437,302Extra charges of our navy001,905Supplies for service of the Spanish Government
001,905Supplies for service of the Spanish Government"FROM JULY 1838, TO JUNE 1839.
"FROM JULY 1838, TO JUNE 1839.
717£616,638Total
717£616,638Total082,001Payments and civil contingencies made to Colonels Wylde and Lacy
082,001Payments and civil contingencies made to Colonels Wylde and Lacy03238Medical and surgical materials
03238Medical and surgical materials00530Extra charge caused by Artillery, Engineers, Sappers, and Miners
00530Extra charge caused by Artillery, Engineers, Sappers, and Miners00192Intrenching tools, &c, to Royal Sappers and Miners
00192Intrenching tools, &c, to Royal Sappers and Miners001,678Arms, &c, to British Auxiliary Legion
001,678Arms, &c, to British Auxiliary Legion006,769Arms, &c, to Spanish Government
006,769Arms, &c, to Spanish Government0437,302Extra charges of our navy
0437,302Extra charges of our navy001,905Supplies for service of the Spanish Government
001,905Supplies for service of the Spanish Government"FROM JULY 1838, TO JUNE 1839.
"FROM JULY 1838, TO JUNE 1839.5531143,798Stores to Spanish vessels of war, refitted and repaired in our ports
1143,798Stores to Spanish vessels of war, refitted and repaired in our ports001,000Extra pay to officers and men of the Ordnance Corps
001,000Extra pay to officers and men of the Ordnance Corps00971Arms to Artillery under Lord John Hay
00971Arms to Artillery under Lord John Hay0068,200Arms to Auxiliary Legion
0068,200Arms to Auxiliary Legion00487,060Arms to Spanish Government
00487,060Arms to Spanish Government62572Medical stores to Spanish Government
62572Medical stores to Spanish Government3193,139Naval stores, provisions, medical charges, &c, to Spanish Government
3193,139Naval stores, provisions, medical charges, &c, to Spanish Government97£1,281Hire of the Prince Regent and Parmelia transports, for bringing home the men of the British Auxiliary Legion
97£1,281Hire of the Prince Regent and Parmelia transports, for bringing home the men of the British Auxiliary Legion"EXPENSES OF THE WAR IN SPAIN TO ENGLAND FROM 1834, TO JULY 1838.
"EXPENSES OF THE WAR IN SPAIN TO ENGLAND FROM 1834, TO JULY 1838.
1143,798Stores to Spanish vessels of war, refitted and repaired in our ports
1143,798Stores to Spanish vessels of war, refitted and repaired in our ports001,000Extra pay to officers and men of the Ordnance Corps
001,000Extra pay to officers and men of the Ordnance Corps00971Arms to Artillery under Lord John Hay
00971Arms to Artillery under Lord John Hay0068,200Arms to Auxiliary Legion
0068,200Arms to Auxiliary Legion00487,060Arms to Spanish Government
00487,060Arms to Spanish Government62572Medical stores to Spanish Government
62572Medical stores to Spanish Government3193,139Naval stores, provisions, medical charges, &c, to Spanish Government
3193,139Naval stores, provisions, medical charges, &c, to Spanish Government97£1,281Hire of the Prince Regent and Parmelia transports, for bringing home the men of the British Auxiliary Legion
97£1,281Hire of the Prince Regent and Parmelia transports, for bringing home the men of the British Auxiliary Legion"EXPENSES OF THE WAR IN SPAIN TO ENGLAND FROM 1834, TO JULY 1838.
"EXPENSES OF THE WAR IN SPAIN TO ENGLAND FROM 1834, TO JULY 1838.552"This important result is owing to the wise conduct of the Government of the Queen Regent, and to the persevering valour of the Spanish army, supported by the assistance which my Government has given them, and that of her Britannic Majesty, by the faithful execution of the treaties of 1834.""A great change has been effected in the situation of Spain, and if I have to regret not being able to announce to you that the civil war which has so long desolated this kingdom, is entirely at an end, still this war has lost its character of gravity, which would give rise to alarming apprehensions for the stability of the constitutional throne of Isabella the Second. The greatest part of the northern provinces is pacified"—(not as stated by her Majesty, "the war has been brought to an end")—"and we are allowed to hope that those of the south will not be long behind-hand.551"I rejoice that the civil war which had so long disturbed and desolated the northern provinces of Spain, has been brought to an end, by an arrangement satisfactory to the Spanish Government, and to the people of those provinces."550549"A son arrivee en Biscaye, Maroto marcha resolument vers le but qu'il s'etait propose
549Au moment meme ou il publiait cette proclamation, il ecrivait a Lord John Hay, lui promettant de lui livrer D. Carlos et les provinces dans un delai de 15 Jours.""In vain do inhuman intriguants spread reports of negotiations. There never can exist any between two parties whose principles are so entirely opposed. Let our constant device be—The king and our religion. We must triumph or die—les armes a la main.""The God of armies will protect the cause of the best of kings. A sacred obligation imposes upon us the duty to conquer or die.""The King and our holy religion are the sacred objects confided to our defence. If our enemies attempt to disseminate disunion and discord amongst us, let us prove by the loyalty of our conduct that their intrigues can never succeed. Base and vile factions find no response in the hearts of Royalists, armed for the most sacred cause."548547546545 could assure their Lordships, that with great difficulty and much embarrassment he rose to address the House on a subject which, he was free to confess, did not attract the same interest, and invite the same attention, as it had done on previous occasions. He felt that the subject was not of an interesting or a pleasing nature, and this reflection was one of the causes of the embarrassment by which he was oppressed; but, in addition to this, he laboured under another and still greater difficulty. On the present occasion he was deprived of the presence of the noble Duke (Wellington), who was the best acquainted with the foreign policy of this country, and with the affairs of Europe, of all the men in the kingdom, not excepting the noble Viscount at the head of her Majesty's Government, and the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. But yet he was ready to do those noble Lords the justice to acknowledge that they concurred with him in deeply regretting that the illustrious Duke was not in his place, and that they had not now the assistance of his wisdom and discretion, of which their Lordships had so many times experienced the value in discussing the foreign affairs of England. He trusted that amongst their Lordships there was only one prayer,
"Victrix causa diis placuit sed victa Catoni."558557556555554l.l.l.,717£616,638Total
717£616,638Total082,001Payments and civil contingencies made to Colonels Wylde and Lacy
082,001Payments and civil contingencies made to Colonels Wylde and Lacy03238Medical and surgical materials
03238Medical and surgical materials00530Extra charge caused by Artillery, Engineers, Sappers, and Miners
00530Extra charge caused by Artillery, Engineers, Sappers, and Miners00192Intrenching tools, &c, to Royal Sappers and Miners
00192Intrenching tools, &c, to Royal Sappers and Miners001,678Arms, &c, to British Auxiliary Legion
001,678Arms, &c, to British Auxiliary Legion006,769Arms, &c, to Spanish Government
006,769Arms, &c, to Spanish Government0437,302Extra charges of our navy
0437,302Extra charges of our navy001,905Supplies for service of the Spanish Government
001,905Supplies for service of the Spanish Government"FROM JULY 1838, TO JUNE 1839.
"FROM JULY 1838, TO JUNE 1839.
717£616,638Total
717£616,638Total082,001Payments and civil contingencies made to Colonels Wylde and Lacy
082,001Payments and civil contingencies made to Colonels Wylde and Lacy03238Medical and surgical materials
03238Medical and surgical materials00530Extra charge caused by Artillery, Engineers, Sappers, and Miners
00530Extra charge caused by Artillery, Engineers, Sappers, and Miners00192Intrenching tools, &c, to Royal Sappers and Miners
00192Intrenching tools, &c, to Royal Sappers and Miners001,678Arms, &c, to British Auxiliary Legion
001,678Arms, &c, to British Auxiliary Legion006,769Arms, &c, to Spanish Government
006,769Arms, &c, to Spanish Government0437,302Extra charges of our navy
0437,302Extra charges of our navy001,905Supplies for service of the Spanish Government
001,905Supplies for service of the Spanish Government"FROM JULY 1838, TO JUNE 1839.
"FROM JULY 1838, TO JUNE 1839.5531143,798Stores to Spanish vessels of war, refitted and repaired in our ports
1143,798Stores to Spanish vessels of war, refitted and repaired in our ports001,000Extra pay to officers and men of the Ordnance Corps
001,000Extra pay to officers and men of the Ordnance Corps00971Arms to Artillery under Lord John Hay
00971Arms to Artillery under Lord John Hay0068,200Arms to Auxiliary Legion
0068,200Arms to Auxiliary Legion00487,060Arms to Spanish Government
00487,060Arms to Spanish Government62572Medical stores to Spanish Government
62572Medical stores to Spanish Government3193,139Naval stores, provisions, medical charges, &c, to Spanish Government
3193,139Naval stores, provisions, medical charges, &c, to Spanish Government97£1,281Hire of the Prince Regent and Parmelia transports, for bringing home the men of the British Auxiliary Legion
97£1,281Hire of the Prince Regent and Parmelia transports, for bringing home the men of the British Auxiliary Legion"EXPENSES OF THE WAR IN SPAIN TO ENGLAND FROM 1834, TO JULY 1838.
"EXPENSES OF THE WAR IN SPAIN TO ENGLAND FROM 1834, TO JULY 1838.
1143,798Stores to Spanish vessels of war, refitted and repaired in our ports
1143,798Stores to Spanish vessels of war, refitted and repaired in our ports001,000Extra pay to officers and men of the Ordnance Corps
001,000Extra pay to officers and men of the Ordnance Corps00971Arms to Artillery under Lord John Hay
00971Arms to Artillery under Lord John Hay0068,200Arms to Auxiliary Legion
0068,200Arms to Auxiliary Legion00487,060Arms to Spanish Government
00487,060Arms to Spanish Government62572Medical stores to Spanish Government
62572Medical stores to Spanish Government3193,139Naval stores, provisions, medical charges, &c, to Spanish Government
3193,139Naval stores, provisions, medical charges, &c, to Spanish Government97£1,281Hire of the Prince Regent and Parmelia transports, for bringing home the men of the British Auxiliary Legion
97£1,281Hire of the Prince Regent and Parmelia transports, for bringing home the men of the British Auxiliary Legion"EXPENSES OF THE WAR IN SPAIN TO ENGLAND FROM 1834, TO JULY 1838.
"EXPENSES OF THE WAR IN SPAIN TO ENGLAND FROM 1834, TO JULY 1838.552"This important result is owing to the wise conduct of the Government of the Queen Regent, and to the persevering valour of the Spanish army, supported by the assistance which my Government has given them, and that of her Britannic Majesty, by the faithful execution of the treaties of 1834.""A great change has been effected in the situation of Spain, and if I have to regret not being able to announce to you that the civil war which has so long desolated this kingdom, is entirely at an end, still this war has lost its character of gravity, which would give rise to alarming apprehensions for the stability of the constitutional throne of Isabella the Second. The greatest part of the northern provinces is pacified"—(not as stated by her Majesty, "the war has been brought to an end")—"and we are allowed to hope that those of the south will not be long behind-hand.551"I rejoice that the civil war which had so long disturbed and desolated the northern provinces of Spain, has been brought to an end, by an arrangement satisfactory to the Spanish Government, and to the people of those provinces."550549"A son arrivee en Biscaye, Maroto marcha resolument vers le but qu'il s'etait propose
549Au moment meme ou il publiait cette proclamation, il ecrivait a Lord John Hay, lui promettant de lui livrer D. Carlos et les provinces dans un delai de 15 Jours.""In vain do inhuman intriguants spread reports of negotiations. There never can exist any between two parties whose principles are so entirely opposed. Let our constant device be—The king and our religion. We must triumph or die—les armes a la main.""The God of armies will protect the cause of the best of kings. A sacred obligation imposes upon us the duty to conquer or die.""The King and our holy religion are the sacred objects confided to our defence. If our enemies attempt to disseminate disunion and discord amongst us, let us prove by the loyalty of our conduct that their intrigues can never succeed. Base and vile factions find no response in the hearts of Royalists, armed for the most sacred cause."548547546545The Marquess of Londonderry
580 having briefly replied, expressed a desire to put another question to the noble Viscount.
580The Marquess of Londonderry
 expressed his abhorrence and disgust of the course pursued by Maroto throughout the whole of these transactions.Lord Ashburton
l.l.576l.,575574573572inter alia"That whereas in consequence of occurrences that had taken place in Spain, it was necessary to enter into new provisions, and the contracted parties had engaged so and so."571570 said, he had not meant to allude to that convention. But what the noble Earl stated was, that the British Government were bound to Spain by treaty, that was to say, the quadruple treaty. Indeed, that was the topic to which he wished to draw the attention of the noble Viscount (Melbourne). He had
l.l.576l.,575574573572inter alia"That whereas in consequence of occurrences that had taken place in Spain, it was necessary to enter into new provisions, and the contracted parties had engaged so and so."571570The Earl of Aberdeen
569568 said, it was never without some degree of reluctance that he took part in any discussion with respect to the affairs in Spain. Not that those affairs might not be well deserving of their Lordships' serious deliberation; at the same time, in his opinion, the conduct of both parties in the wretched contest that was going on in that country had beep so atrocious, so abhorrent to every feeling of humanity and civilisation, and so utterly disgraceful to the age in which we lived, that it was very difficult to feel anything of interest in the success of either party, or to look at the result of the contest, except with feelings allied to loathing and disgust. He would stop not to inquire on which side they ought to distribute the greater share of disgust, or on whom to pour out the greatest measure of their indignation; it at least, however, must be admitted, that if there existed in the country any government that was organised, and that possessed the tribunals and institutions of a government, they were entitled to look to that quarter for conduct very different from that which must necessarily come from a court held in a camp, and composed of fugitives. But, without entering into that
569568The Earl of Aberdeen
 begged to say, that no such observation had been made by him. What he said was, that her Majesty's Government had, by every means in their power, endeavoured to promote the pacification of Spain by an arrangement that should be agreeable to all parties concerned; but he did not say her Majesty's Government were parties to the convention of Bergara.The Earl of Clarendon
567566565564563562l.561560559was desirous of addressing a few words to their Lordships, in consequence of the observations which had fallen from the noble Marquess. He felt, indeed, that it was totally unnecessary, in reply to the speech of the noble Marquess, to touch upon the various topics which were so numerous as to form almost a budget, which would have been far better to have been opened to the Cortes, than, have been delivered in their Lordship's House. He was anxious, however, to give a different version, another account of what had recently taken place in Spain, than the one advanced by the noble Marquess. He attached considerable importance to that different account, and to its proper consideration; not solely with reference to the interests of Spain herself, nor alone in consequence of the speech of the noble Marquess, but in consequence also of all that had been said and all that had been written upon the subject in this country. When he considered how the officers in her Majesty's service had been maligned in consequence of the supposed part which they had taken in the arrangements which had been made, and when he considered how, in consequence of the supposed part that her Majesty's Government had taken, they had been attacked, he rejoiced that the time had arrived when he could put their Lordships and the country in possession of the real facts of the case. The noble Marquess had alluded to a speech which he had made last year, and had passed upon it some serious comments; but he shrank from nothing which he had at that time asserted; events had more quickly than he had expected, more satisfactorily than he had hoped, proved the correctness of every assertion that he had then made. He should have said thus much long before, as that speech had been alluded to, and as he had been taunted for delivering it, if he had not felt certain that the noble Marquess would bring forward a distinct motion—he had thought, that
567566565564563562l.561560559The Earl of Clarendon
: That must be according to the judgment of the Government.Viscount Melbourne
579578"What may have beseemed your Highness so to act towards your sovereign liege and emperor, it beseems not me to inquire; but this advantage is in our favour, and all advantages in war are just."577 stated, that considering the various matters which the noble Marquess had mixed up with the treaty of Bergara—namely, the part which the Spanish Government had borne, the part which the British Government had taken, and the share which British officers had had in bringing that treaty to a termination—it was perfectly obvious that their Lordships could discuss those matters with much greater advantage, with much greater facility, and, withal much more satisfactorily, when they were in possession of the information for which the noble Marquess moved, than they could do at the present moment. At the same time, considering the very long speech that had been made by the noble Marquess who brought forward the motion—considering the observations which had often been made upon the treaty in that House, and the animadversions which were continually made upon it by some portions of the public press, he thought that his noble Friend (Lord Clarendon) was perfectly justified in going into some explanation of the circumstances under which the treaty had been concluded, and of the share which British officers and men had had in producing it. His noble Friend, on the opposite side of the House, had gone back to the origin of the whole affair, and had produced many of the selfsame arguments that had over and over again been put forward upon the same subject by the
579578"What may have beseemed your Highness so to act towards your sovereign liege and emperor, it beseems not me to inquire; but this advantage is in our favour, and all advantages in war are just."577Viscount Melbourne
661, in presenting a petition from the town of Castle Douglas, in Scotland, against the intrusion of Ministers into non-consenting congregations, stated that the petitioners represented that the necessity of the intervention of the Legislature was imperative, and prayed the subject might be brought under the immediate consideration of Parliament. He was instructed that the petition was not only numerously, but very generally, signed by the various denominations of persons residing within the district. He did not wish in the present critical juncture of the affairs of the church of Scotland to give a premature opinion on this important question; but as, when the noble Earl on the bench behind him put a question to her Majesty's Ministers the other day with the view of eliciting the intentions of the Government in respect of it, the answer of the noble Viscount did not appear to him to be very cordially given, nor to have in it the promise of a speedy issue, he felt himself impelled to state to the House, for himself, and he believed he might state as much for every noble Lord connected with Scotland, that not a day passed that they were not receiving the most distressing representations of the fearful agitation of the public mind in
661The Earl of Galloway
757commission consultative"756755754753752testetesteTo eat thy heart through comfortless despairs."To fret thy soul with crosses and with cares;To have thy asking, yet wait many years;To have thy prince's grace, yet want her peers;To feed on hope, to pine with fear and sorrow;To speed to-day, to be put back to morrow;To waste long nights in pensive discontent;To lose good days that might be better spent,What hell it is in suing long to bide;"Full little knowest thou, that hast not tried,751750vi et armis"That in addition to other disadvantages which your petitioners labour under in competing with the French, the unequal and unfair system of intercourse subsisting between the French and English settlements is severely felt by the English trader; the French being allowed privileges at the Gambia, which they refuse to reciprocate at Senegal."749"That the British trade with those settle-
749"That through the influence of the British possessions at the Gambia, the slave trade has been entirely destroyed in the neighbourhood of that river, formerly one of its greatest marts, which proves the great value of those possessions for the attainment of that important object; but, that your petitioners regret to state, that according to the last advices received from, the Gambia, the French authorities were purchasing slaves for government service at Cayenne, which it was feared would have the effect of reviving the love of that traffic in the breasts of the native chiefs."That in the opinion of your petitioners, the want of naval protection has been the main cause of these evils, the French having never less than two or three ships of war constantly stationed in the neighbourhood, while the English settlements are frequently left for six or eight months together without a single British ship of war coming within sight of them; that at the time these proceedings took place at the Cazamanza, there was no British ship of war within 500 miles of those settlements, although nearly twenty English ships of war are employed on that coast."That these and similar proceedings on the part of the French, have from time to time been strongly represented to her Majesty's Government, not only by the petitioners at home, but by the sufferers in Africa, through the Lieutenant-governor at the Gambia, praying earnestly for protection; and although your petitioners cannot think that her Majesty's Government have been entirely inattentive to their prayers, they regret to say that, up to the present moment, they are ignorant what measures, if any, have been taken for their relief; meanwhile the French are left to pursue their insulting and aggressive policy without hindrance or interruption.748"That the French, in pursuance of their policy to increase the number of their establishments on the coast, and at the same time destroy the prosperity of those of Great Britain, have recently formed new settlements
748"That without adverting to other well-known acts of French aggression in the same quarter, which remain equally without redress, although attended with consequences the most ruinous to individuals, your petitioners have on this occasion humbly to draw your Lordships' attention to a further and more recent outrage committed by the French authorities so late as September last, and which, although the last aggression your petitioners have heard of, will not, they fear, be the last they are destined to endure, unless measures be taken to assert the honour, and uphold the rights of Great Britain in that part of the world."That these proceedings have been systematically carried on by the French ever since the peace, having commenced so early as the year 1819, when they took possession of Albredar, a station within the mouth of the river Gambia, notwithstanding that that river was reserved exclusively to Great Britain by the peace; that the British Government remonstrated against this outrage at the time, and have done so at intervals ever since without effect, the said factory still continuing in possession of France, to the serious injury and embarrassment of British trade."That, in the pursuit of these objects, the French authorities have, on various occasions, and under various false pretences, insulted and despoiled the English traders belonging to the neighbouring British settlements, who can no longer pursue their lawful trade with safety or success,"That the French have possessions in the same neighbourhood, of which Senegal and Goree are the most important; that Senegal and Goree having been taken from France in the late war, were restored to her at the peace, since when she hag laboured incessantly to increase the number of her possessions in the same quarter, and to augment her influence over that part of Africa."Humbly showelh—That your petitioners are merchants and traders connected with the British settlements and factories on the northwest coast of Africa."THE PETITION OF THE UNDERSIGNED BRITISH MERCHANTS,747"or remain under a Government disposed to protect them.""That however deeply your petitioners may feel the importance of duly protecting and upholding these settlements, as well with a view to commerce as to the extinction of the slave trade, and however anxious they may be to preserve them as openings to British enterprise at a period when new markets for our manufactures are so essential to the mother country, yet the neglect of their own Government, and the losses and insults which they have so long suffered from the French, without any prospect of redress, constrain your petitioners humbly to recommend that a negotiation be opened with the French Government, for selling and transferring those possessions to that power which seems so anxious to possess them: under which negotiation your petitioners may either withdraw their property upon receiving an indemnity, or"—746 rose to lay before the House a petition from all the merchants in London engaged in the African trade, complaining of certain injuries to which they were subjected by reason of their treatment on the coast of Africa by the French authorities. He should now merely move, that it should be laid upon the table of their Lordships' House, but should proceed to address some further remarks to their Lordships upon the subject. [Petition laid on the Table]. The noble Viscount then continued to say, that when in the course of the last Session he brought under their Lordships' consideration the various aggressions upon our trade on the western coast of Africa, which had been committed by certain French authorities there, and the amount of loss and dishonour which, in his opinion, we had in
757commission consultative"756755754753752testetesteTo eat thy heart through comfortless despairs."To fret thy soul with crosses and with cares;To have thy asking, yet wait many years;To have thy prince's grace, yet want her peers;To feed on hope, to pine with fear and sorrow;To speed to-day, to be put back to morrow;To waste long nights in pensive discontent;To lose good days that might be better spent,What hell it is in suing long to bide;"Full little knowest thou, that hast not tried,751750vi et armis"That in addition to other disadvantages which your petitioners labour under in competing with the French, the unequal and unfair system of intercourse subsisting between the French and English settlements is severely felt by the English trader; the French being allowed privileges at the Gambia, which they refuse to reciprocate at Senegal."749"That the British trade with those settle-
749"That through the influence of the British possessions at the Gambia, the slave trade has been entirely destroyed in the neighbourhood of that river, formerly one of its greatest marts, which proves the great value of those possessions for the attainment of that important object; but, that your petitioners regret to state, that according to the last advices received from, the Gambia, the French authorities were purchasing slaves for government service at Cayenne, which it was feared would have the effect of reviving the love of that traffic in the breasts of the native chiefs."That in the opinion of your petitioners, the want of naval protection has been the main cause of these evils, the French having never less than two or three ships of war constantly stationed in the neighbourhood, while the English settlements are frequently left for six or eight months together without a single British ship of war coming within sight of them; that at the time these proceedings took place at the Cazamanza, there was no British ship of war within 500 miles of those settlements, although nearly twenty English ships of war are employed on that coast."That these and similar proceedings on the part of the French, have from time to time been strongly represented to her Majesty's Government, not only by the petitioners at home, but by the sufferers in Africa, through the Lieutenant-governor at the Gambia, praying earnestly for protection; and although your petitioners cannot think that her Majesty's Government have been entirely inattentive to their prayers, they regret to say that, up to the present moment, they are ignorant what measures, if any, have been taken for their relief; meanwhile the French are left to pursue their insulting and aggressive policy without hindrance or interruption.748"That the French, in pursuance of their policy to increase the number of their establishments on the coast, and at the same time destroy the prosperity of those of Great Britain, have recently formed new settlements
748"That without adverting to other well-known acts of French aggression in the same quarter, which remain equally without redress, although attended with consequences the most ruinous to individuals, your petitioners have on this occasion humbly to draw your Lordships' attention to a further and more recent outrage committed by the French authorities so late as September last, and which, although the last aggression your petitioners have heard of, will not, they fear, be the last they are destined to endure, unless measures be taken to assert the honour, and uphold the rights of Great Britain in that part of the world."That these proceedings have been systematically carried on by the French ever since the peace, having commenced so early as the year 1819, when they took possession of Albredar, a station within the mouth of the river Gambia, notwithstanding that that river was reserved exclusively to Great Britain by the peace; that the British Government remonstrated against this outrage at the time, and have done so at intervals ever since without effect, the said factory still continuing in possession of France, to the serious injury and embarrassment of British trade."That, in the pursuit of these objects, the French authorities have, on various occasions, and under various false pretences, insulted and despoiled the English traders belonging to the neighbouring British settlements, who can no longer pursue their lawful trade with safety or success,"That the French have possessions in the same neighbourhood, of which Senegal and Goree are the most important; that Senegal and Goree having been taken from France in the late war, were restored to her at the peace, since when she hag laboured incessantly to increase the number of her possessions in the same quarter, and to augment her influence over that part of Africa."Humbly showelh—That your petitioners are merchants and traders connected with the British settlements and factories on the northwest coast of Africa."THE PETITION OF THE UNDERSIGNED BRITISH MERCHANTS,747"or remain under a Government disposed to protect them.""That however deeply your petitioners may feel the importance of duly protecting and upholding these settlements, as well with a view to commerce as to the extinction of the slave trade, and however anxious they may be to preserve them as openings to British enterprise at a period when new markets for our manufactures are so essential to the mother country, yet the neglect of their own Government, and the losses and insults which they have so long suffered from the French, without any prospect of redress, constrain your petitioners humbly to recommend that a negotiation be opened with the French Government, for selling and transferring those possessions to that power which seems so anxious to possess them: under which negotiation your petitioners may either withdraw their property upon receiving an indemnity, or"—746Viscount Strangford
: I am aware that it is extremely irregular and unusual to make the request which I am about to make to the noble Viscount. I was forced to leave the House by indisposition when the noble Viscount commenced his address, and since I have come in again I have heard that the noble Viscount has been pleased to state something about my having suggested this petition. I call upon the noble Viscount, in that spirit of courtesy which is due from one gentleman to another, to tell me what he did say, in order that I may answer him.Viscount Strangford
762: It is, perhaps, my misfortune, but I have been so very
762Viscount Strangford
Strangford:: He would not have risen to say one word, if it had not been for the declaration of the noble Lord, that all this inconvenience to our trade had been occasioned in consequence of an insufficiency of naval protection on the African coast. The noble Lord alluded to the year 1835, and he stated that it was at the latter end. [Viscount Strangford:The Earl of Minto
 did not think, that there would have been anything improper in the statement, even if his noble Friend had said, that the noble Lord had assisted in the preparation of the petition. There would have been nothing of which the noble Lord could have had cause to be ashamed in offering his advice to the petitioners. He could not see, that there would have been any harm in the noble Lord, who agreed in opinion with the petitioners, suggesting the terms in which the document should be drawn up.Lord Holland
: Ay, my Lords, that may be true; but it is a different matter to present a petition to your Lordships under a false disguise, and under false pretences.Viscount Strangford
766 said, the noble Viscount often made strong charges against noble Lords on his (the Opposition) side of the House, but when similar charges were directed against noble Lords opposite, the noble Viscount treated them with a sort of contempt. He could assure the noble Viscount, that there was no disposition on the Opposition side of the House to show temper, and he trusted, that their debates would always be conducted with calmness. With regard to the charge which had been made against his noble Friend, he must say, that if his noble Friend did write the petition, and
766The Marquess of Londonderry
 said, that after the assurance which he had given the noble Viscount, that he had had no share in the preparation of the petition which he had presented to their Lordships, he trusted the noble Viscount would see the propriety of withdrawing the charge which he had made against him. He had certainly not imagined, that the noble Viscount would object to the production of the papers for which he had moved, but after what had fallen from his noble Friend (the Earl of Aberdeen), he should not persist in his motion.Viscount Strangford
745 would take that opportunity of making some observations in reference to some expressions which were reported to have fallen from a noble Lord in another place on the previous night. He alluded to the subject of the appointment of a noble Lord, a Member of that House, to the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer. The noble Lord
745The Earl of Ripon
765764763 did not doubt, that his noble Friend had brought this subject under their Lordships' notice with extreme reluctance, and he was sure, that he had not taken such a step without mature consideration. His noble Friend must have been aware of the great inconvenience of discussing questions of this nature in that House, and he must have known, that complaints of this kind directed against a foreign state, and more particularly such a state as France, could not be unattended with the most grave and weighty considerations, from the serious consequences which might result from their discussion. Such were his opinions, and he therefore agreed with the noble Viscount at the head of the Government, that questions of this nature ought to be treated with calmness and deliberation. But while he made that admission, he must at the same time ask the noble Viscount what it was that he expected their Lordships to do? They saw the flag of England despised and outraged in every quarter of the globe. They were every day made aware of the complaints of the mercantile community for want of protection
765764763The Earl of Aberdeen
: Nothing is so fallacious as judgments founded on a similarity of styles. I said that the last part of the petition resembled very much the style of the noble Lord, and that perhaps he might have suggested it.Viscount Melbourne
761760759758 certainly could not complain of the noble Viscount for bringing these matters under the consideration of their Lordships. He admitted that they were matters of great importance, and well worthy of their Lordships' attention; but he had a right to complain of the angry and irritable tone with which the subject had been introduced; and he would have complained of the pointed sarcasm which had been used in reference to a foreign power, and of the attacks on the general policy which had been made, if it had not been that the latter part of the noble Lord's speech had been wrapped up in so much allegory, with such a mixture of Greek epigrams, and of imagination, so much better adapted for the region of poetry or of fiction than of debate, as to have rendered the tone of his speech innocuous, and not likely to be attended with those irritating effects which it might otherwise have produced. But as it was likely that their Lordships would hear many arguments, many motions, many statements, and many descriptions of matters of this nature and of this character, he would only beg and implore their Lordships to consider them calmly and patiently, but, at the same time, with firmness and with resolution. The noble Lord who had just spoken had said, that when on a former occasion he had addressed the House upon this subject, he had done so in a firm And resolute tone.
761760759758Viscount Melbourne
 was sure, that if the noble Lord had heard what he had actually stated with reference to the petition, he would hare admitted, that there was no charge whatever made against him. However, he now begged to say, that he had not intended to make any charge against the noble Lord, and if the noble Lord felt offended at the observations he had made, he at once withdrew them.Viscount Melbourne
 said, that he thought that it was very natural for the noble Earl to say what he had done; and he only rose to state, that in the position which he had held, he was not in the least degree cognizant of what took place.Viscount Melbourne
801 said, that he entirely concurred in opinion with the noble Duke, that nothing could be more desirable than the introduction of some measure which would, if possible, allay the present unhappy state of excitement which prevailed in Scotland. With respect
801The Earl of Haddington
 thought it was advisable not to go into the merits of the question until some measure connected with it came regularly before their Lordships.The Earl of Minto
800 had several petitions to present to their Lordships, on a subject which had excited much painful interest—he alluded to the subject of Church discipline. It was his misfortune to be opposed on that subject to the opinions of those whose judgment he revered, and whose characters he respected and esteemed; but, in presenting those petitions, he was authorised to state, that communications had taken place between the bishops, and he was rejoiced to say that, without a sacrifice of principle being made by any one, they were able to agree together, and to produce and promote, both before their Lordships and the other House of Parliament, such a measure as would, it was hoped, be satisfactory to the Church at large, and to their Lordships. It was not his intention to go into particulars, but he might be allowed to say, that already, steps had been taken to effect their common object, which he trusted would be attended with success. The right rev. Prelate then presented petitions from the clergy of the deanery of Chester, of Barnstaple, of Penrith, and several other places, praying that in any measure which might be introduced
800The Bishop of Exeter
 confirmed the statement of the right rev. Prelate, that a measure was in progress for the improvement of Church discipline. The only difficulty in the case had reference to certain legal points, on which the advice and assistance of the legal authorities in the House would be required.The Bishop of London
 said, that in his opinion, Ministers were quite right in not acting precipitately on such a question.Lord Kinnaird
 presented petitions against the intrusion of ministers on non-consenting parishes, from Inverness, and various other places in Scotland. The noble Duke said, he wished to ask the noble Viscount whether there was any probability of any measure being speedily laid before Parliament, to reconcile the parties who were at variance on this question? He believed that it was almost impossible to describe the feelings of excitement which now prevailed on this subject. All parties were agreed that some enactment was necessary, in order to settle the matter in dispute, and he hoped that, before long, Government would propose such a measure. The feelings of society in general were excited to such an extent on this question, that, if allowed to go on much further, it would be beyond the noble Viscount's power, and, he feared, beyond the power of Parliament to deal with the evil. He wished a measure to be introduced that would satisfy the moderate men of all parties; but, if that were not quickly done, the noble Viscount might find it next to impossible to satisfy any party.The Duke of Richmond
 did not agree with his noble Friend (the Earl of Haddington) as to the cause in which the agitation, now prevalent in Scotland, originated.The Earl of Aberdeen
806805804803802 rose to present to their Lordships a petition respecting the commercial arrangements of this country with Sicily, which petition more particularly referred to the sulphur trade carried on with that country. It was signed by several merchants of the city of London; and from communications which he had received, he had reason to expect a similar petition from certain merchants of Liverpool and of Glasgow; but from some unforeseen circumstances those petitions had not been received. The subject of this trade was one of very considerable importance, not only to the merchants who were immediately engaged in that branch of com-
806805804803802Lord Lyndhurst
l. wished to recall to the recollection of the noble Viscount that eighteen months had now elapsed since this infraction of the treaty, which was said to be the subject of negotiation, had been proclaimed. He should like to know what had been done during that period to put an end to the general losses sustained by the British merchants. He was told that it amounted to 1,000l.Lord Lyndhurst
 wished to ask the noble Viscount whether he did not know that the Neapolitan Government insisted on the continuance of the monopoly for six months further, dating from the 1st of January last.Lord Lyndhurst
: Six line-of-battle ships sent to Naples would settle the matter in a fortnight.Lord Lyndhurst
 said, he was sure his noble Friend did not wish to enter into the merits of the question. He believed that what his noble Friend said, and all the anxiety which he had manifested, arose from the great tardiness which Government had manifested in doing their duty.The Earl of Galloway
 was hot ready to state that Government would be able speedily to introduce a measure on this subject, although they were as anxious to do so as the noble Duke. Looking to the interest and importance of the question in dispute, the noble Duke must see, that such a measure ought not to be introduced, without due and mature consideration.Viscount Melbourne
: No, I have never heard of such a condition.Viscount Melbourne
: We have had a promise from the Neapolitan Government, and unquestionably it now rests with Government to insist on the fulfilment of that promise.Viscount Melbourne
808807 said, he agreed in all that the noble and learned Lord had said, as to the importance of the subject of this petition. The noble and learned Lord had stated the whole of the circumstances that had taken place, the noble Lord had referred to the amount of British, capital embarked in the trade, the obligations of the treaty by which the Government of the two Sicilies was bound to this country, and the transaction by which it had been violated, with a few inaccuracies in the latter part of his remarks, but otherwise with perfect correctness, with perfect justice, and without the least misstatement or exaggeration. The noble and learned Lord had observed that he (Viscount Melbourne) on a former occasion, said he anticipated that there would be many discussions in that House on commercial affairs in the course of the present session, and seemed to suppose that it arose from some consciousness of his that those interests had not been sufficiently attended to. The fact was, that that opinion arose, not from any shadowy apprehension of that nature, but from the motions that had been already brought forward, the notices which had been placed on the books, and the discussions which had already occurred in both Houses of Parliament. These were the grounds he went on, and not any shadowy or spectral feeling of the kind insinuated by the noble and learned Lord. The noble and learned Lord had adverted to the establishment of the sulphur monopoly, the nature of which had been so accurately explained, that it was unnecessary for him (Viscount Melbourne) to enter into the subject again, and had hinted that we might form a good idea of the sort of influence by which that privilege had been obtained from the court of Naples. That monopoly had been granted in favour of certain inhabitants of France, but he believed, that by whatever influence it had been obtained, it was not by the influence of the present ruler of France, or the Government which now reigned over that country. In the next place, the noble and learned Lord had stated—and that
808807Viscount Melbourne
845 stated that he had sixteen petitions to present from parishes in Sussex, praying that their Lordships would not sanction any measure for the repeal or alteration of the Corn-laws. He need not say that is
845The Duke of Richmond
—ll849 requested their Lordships to permit the first reading of a bill which had been rendered necessary by certain late transactions of a vexatious character. An act had been passed in 1740, which prohibited any person from running more than one horse in a race, or from running any horse otherwise than his own name. That act, up to the present time, had never been carried into effect. Neither, indeed, could it; because, if a person bought a horse under an engagement, it must run under that engagement, as a
ll849The Duke of Richmond
 said, that the Botanic Gardens of Kew were not under the control of his department. But he could assure the noble Earl, that there was not only not the least intention now to break up those gardens, but there never had been any such intention. Indeed, the would have been next to impossible; for a great many of the plants could not be removed without insuring their destruction.Viscount Duncannon
 said, though the care of the gardens was not in his department, he had the authority of the Lord Steward for stating, that no intention of breaking up the gardens now existed.Viscount Duncannon
848 had no wish to allege anything against the noble Viscount's department, which he believed to be the best managed under the Government; though, perhaps, that was not saying a great deal in its favour. The noble Viscount had informed them that these gardens did not come within the range of his department. It therefore might be supposed, that the noble Viscount was not aware of all the circum-
848The Earl of Aberdeen
847 wished to ask a question relative to a subject which was in some degree, if not directly, connected with the situation which the noble Viscount opposite (Lord Duncannon) held. He alluded to the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew.
847The Earl of Aberdeen
— complained of the enormous destruction of records connected with the Exchequer, and begged as ask by whose orders the records had been destroyed.Lord Redesdale
"I will give directions that inquiry be made into the important matters which form the subject of your address; and you may rely upon my determination to discourage all doctrines and practices dangerous to morality and religion.""That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to command that inquiries be made into the diffusion of blasphemous and immoral publications, and especially into the tenets and proceedings of a society under the name of Socialists, which has been represented in petitions to this House to be a society the object of which is, by the dissemination of doctrines subversive of morality and religion, to destroy the existing laws and institutions of this realm."846 presented a petition from the Protestant Association of Edinburgh, and as it was very short, and the subject was of importance, he begged leave to read it. The noble Earl read the petition, which prayed for an enquiry into the nature and tendency of the books used as class-books at Maynooth College; and setting forth that if those books were such as they had been described to be, it was inconsistent with the duty of a Christian Government any longer to supply funds for the support of that college. The noble Earl proceeded to say, that in laying this petition before their Lordships he did not pretend to be acquainted with the books in use at the College of Maynooth; but he had no hesitation in asserting, that if the books were of such a nature as was stated in this petition, it was a subject that ought at once to be dealt with by Parliament. In presenting this petition he begged it to be observed that he entertained no hostile feelings towards the Roman Catholic body. Indeed, he was one of those who, from the very first, entertained a conscientious opinion in their favour, and in the other House he had voted in favour of what was called Catholic Emancipation, and he was sorry that that measure had not produced those happy results that were anticipated from it by the many Protestants who had supported it. Of this, however, he had no doubt, that a Roman Catholic college, established for purely Roman Catholic purposes, was incon-
"I will give directions that inquiry be made into the important matters which form the subject of your address; and you may rely upon my determination to discourage all doctrines and practices dangerous to morality and religion.""That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to command that inquiries be made into the diffusion of blasphemous and immoral publications, and especially into the tenets and proceedings of a society under the name of Socialists, which has been represented in petitions to this House to be a society the object of which is, by the dissemination of doctrines subversive of morality and religion, to destroy the existing laws and institutions of this realm."846The Earl of Galloway
 said, the documents which had been lately destroyed, were, for the most part, duplicates of documents connected with ancient proceedings in the Exchequer. They had not been destroyed until there had been a full inquiry and due deliberation upon the subject. Two gentlemen, competent to the task, were appointed to make the inquiry. They had reported on the subject; and if the House required it there would be no objection to furnishing the report.Lord Monteagle
900899898 said, that he had three petitions to present on the subject of non-intrusion, all of which had the same prayer, and yet all meant something perfectly different from each other. Their Lordships had recently heard a great deal on the subject of non-intrusion, and were probably destined to hear a great deal more. He thought, that in five minutes he could explain to their Lordships what were the views of the several portions of the Church of Scotland on this subject. There existed now, and always had, in the Church of Scotland, a numerous body of persons who regarded the very existence of patronage as a grievance, an
900899898The Earl of Aberdeen
1050Teynham: rose to call the attention of the House to a petition from Newport, presented on Friday night in favour of Frost and others, which had led to a communication with that town, and which was stated by a noble Lord who had presented it, to hare been signed by 1,500 out of a population of 6,000, among whom were the names of the most respectable inhabitants, and that the four first names were those of four of the most wealthy individuals in the town. This account he had no doubt the noble Lord had received on what appeared to him good authority, and as he had appeared to attach considerable importance to it, and had announced his intention to call the attention of the House to it, with a view to induce it to comply with the prayer of the petitioners, he thought it would not be unnecessarily occupying their Lordships' time to show them the noble Lord had been misinformed in every point to which the noble Lord had adverted. With respect to the population, it was 12,000, instead of 6,000, as stated by the noble Lord. [Lord 1050Teynham:The Marquess of Normanby
 had never himself been in the town of Newport. The petition had been sent to him by parties whom he considered as respectable, and as the noble Marquess had admitted that the former petition had been most respectably signed, he thought he was justified in assuming that the signatures to the petition he had presented, were equally respectable.Lord Teynham
 stated, that in consequence of what fell from the noble Marquess last night, on the subject of a petition presented by him from Newport, praying for the pardon of Frost and his companions, he felt called upon to make one or two observations. First, as to the population of Newport, he found that in the last population returns it was stated at only 7,000. With respect to the petition, he had been informed that it was signed by five persons who were or had been town-councillors of Newport: undoubtedly one of these persons was the uncle of John Frost, who had resided all his life at Newport, and who had retired from business with an unimpeachable character. It was true that he had been taken for looking out of the window of his house at the mob, but Government did not think it advisable to prosecute him. The petition was in a public situation in the town, so that every one who wished might sign it. He understood it was intended to call a public meeting of the inhabitants during the Easter week, in order to give every person an opportunity of expressing his opinion on the subject. He was sure, that if there were the least chance of mercy being extended to these unhappy individuals, their Lordships would be the last persons to make any opposition to it.Lord Teynham
 was sure their Lordships would think it quite unnecessary for him to add anything to what he said last night. The noble Lord must, he thought, be aware the petition did not, in any respect, merit the character he had given of it. He had no doubt been misled, and the petition would be regarded as coming from persons interested in the fate of those men; but it could never be considered as representing the feelings and opinions of the respectable inhabitants of Newport.The Marquess of Normanby
 agreed with the noble Marquess, but suggested, that a short bill should be brought in, to enable poor-law guardians to make contracts for the vaccination of the poor. It was entirely a question of expense. Some medical gentleman vaccinated gratis for the poor; others, however, did not, and their charges were higher than those of the quacks who inoculated for the small-pox.Lord Ellenborough
1112 considered the subject so important, that he would cause every inquiry to be made, whether the evil would not be remedied by the measure suggested by the noble Baron
1112The Marquess of Normanby
11111110 rose to call the attention of their Lordships to a petition of an unusual nature, from a body of persona who did
11111110The Marquess of Lansdowne
 observed, that he could testify that the poorer classes were not averse to vaccination, but the truth was, that they had not the means of getting it. In one district in Sussex, the board of guardians had provided the means of vaccination, and there had been no smallpox there at all.Lord Colchester
 said, that in the conversation that took place a few nights ago on the subject of vaccination, he had suggested that the noble Marquess should bring in a bill, giving powers to the board of guardians to appoint persons to perform this duty; but as he did not wish to thrust a duty on others which he would not perform himself, he had prepared a bill on the subject, which he would place on the table. This bill, at present, would only apply to England, but he had prepared clauses which could be added to it, so as to extend it to Ireland by the same machinery, namely, the Poor-law unions. If the noble Marquess had no objection, he should be glad to have the bill read a second time tomorrow, and the discussion, if any was thought necessary, could be taken on Monday. It was desirable to pass the bill at once, as the guardians on the 25th of March made their new contracts with medical men for the several unions.Lord Ellenborough
 had no objection to the principle of the bill; he should, therefore, not object to the course proposed by the noble Lord; at the same time, he should be glad to learn the opinion of those more conversant with the subject. Did the bill make no reference to Scotland?The Marquess of Normanby
 had found that it was extremely difficult to apply this bill to Scotland. He believed that the only local bodies under which they could place the control of the vaccination were the Kirk Sessions, and he did not think that it would be advisable to do so.Lord Ellenborough
 observed, that if the bill should be found to work well, machinery could be devised for Scotland to carry it out, independent of the Kirk Sessions. He thought that his noble Friend had done wisely in the first place in not entrusting the power to those bodies.The Earl of Haddington
 said, that in consequence of the question put to him on a former night, he had made inquiries, and found that (he statement made by the noble Marquess (Westmeath), as to the commutation of the sentence of death passed upon a man named Lynam, convicted for murder recently in Dublin, was correct. He had received a communication from his noble Friend, the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, in which he was informed that the sentence had been commuted into transportation for life. His noble Friend also stated, that there had already been executed for that crime four of that man's accomplices, and another afterwards, convicted during the viceroyalty of the noble Earl opposite (Earl of Haddington) had received a commutation of the sentence of death to transportation for life. Under these circumstances, and considering the length of time that had elapsed since the murder, as well as for other reasons, the man had beet, reprieved in the way which he had described. To discuss the grounds of this commutation, or of the exercise of the prerogative, would be very inconvenient.1153The Marquess
1153
1154 asked whether sentence had been commuted after communication with the judges who tried the prisoner; for he thought their Lordships must, in some degree, refer to the evidence which came before the committee which had sat last year, when it was proved by a most respectable witness, that in that unfortunate country there was a sympathy with murderers among certain classes. A very respectable witness, who had been examined, alluded very pointedly to this sympathy, and stated the instance of a man who was taken near Roscrea. He was a person who had been employed by some of the police to look out for some persons who had been guilty of grievous offences, against whom warrants had been issued. The witness stated, that he had asked him where he slept, and he replied at a farmer's house, and he could always get entertainment and lodging, by saying that he was on his keeping for murder; that was, that it was sufficient that he had committed murder and was flying from justice, to insure him the hospitality and protection of the neighbourhood. It was a matter of pain to him, as an Irishman, to dwell on what he believed to be a most disgraceful characteristic of certain classes of his countrymen, but he felt bound to do so. Under these circumstances, the
1154The Marquess of Westmeath
 could not answer the question without entering into a discussion on the subject; therefore he declined doing so.The Marquess of Normanby
1152 stated that he had an important petition to present from the body of West India proprietors residing in London, on the subject of the relaxation of the present duties on East India produce, respecting which petitions had been presented to both Houses of Parliament, and committees had been appointed to inquire into the subject. The petitioners deprecated any measure which was likely to interfere with the productions or to injure the West India colonies at the present crisis, not merely from regard to their own interests, but to the population of those colonies which had been so recently manumitted, and who now were so utterly dependent on this country as the great market for the produce of their labour. They strongly deprecate any alteration of the relative duties of East and West India produce at the present moment, and pray that they maybe heard by counsel against it. On presenting this petition, he could not help calling the attention of the House to the great experiment which had recently been tried in the West India colonies, which in some respects had hitherto succeeded to a degree that those most interested in the subject had not anticipated; but, at the same time, it must be admitted that some inconveniences had arisen, and that, in the extent of cultivation, and in the amount of produce, there had been a great diminution in the staple produce of those colonies, as compared with what it formerly was. The price of West India produce had risen in the market, and if the Legislature resorted to the system that had been urged upon it, of admitting East India produce at greatly reduced duties, while the expense of cultivation had increased in the West Indies, the effect would be most detrimental, and would materially interfere with the cultivation of those colonies. The difficulties now felt chiefly arose from the high rate of wages in our colonies since the Emancipation Act, and they were now in a condition which required all the protection which the mother country could afford to them. They, therefore, entreated the House to weigh with caution any measure which involved an experiment with matters
1152Lord Seaford
 wished to know, with reference to the case of the convict Lynam, who had been found guilty of murder at the Dublin sessions, and whose sentence had afterwards been commuted, whether the noble Marquess had any objection to lay before their Lordships any memorial that had been presented to the Government for the commutation of that sentence?The Marquess of Westmeath
 said, he could not answer the question until he had communicated with his noble Friend the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland.The Marquess of Normanby
 was of opinion, that the well-conditioned part of the Irish community had a right to expect something better than the practice which appeared lately to have prevailed in granting pardons, when they saw, so far as they knew, and so far as any information they received extended, that the sentence of a very great offender had been commuted without any communication having been had with the learned Judge who tried the case. The noble Marquess had not informed the House, when he asked the question, whether such a communication had or had not taken place.The Marquess of Westmeath
 I declined to answer the question, because I could not do so without entering into a discussion of the whole subject. If the noble Marquess makes a motion on the subject, I shall be prepared to answer it.The Marquess of Normanby.
1166 said, that when he was interrupted by the noble Marquess, he was about to observe, that in ordinary times he would have been perfectly satisfied with the answer of the noble Marquess. But, looking to the peculiar state of the present times, it was not at all satisfactory. He was quite sure, that the Sovereign would not venture to commute the punishment of death in England without communicating, in the first place, with the judge who tried the case. When he asked; the noble Marquess whether, in this instance, such a communication had taken place, he refused to answer "ay" or "no," but he stated, that if a motion were made on the subject, he would meet it. He could not collect from that, that what he understood to have taken place was not to be repeated. A
1166The Marquess of Westmeath
1167"That it is the duty of the executive Government, when considering an case of conviction had before any of the King's judges, with a view to remitting or commuting the sentence, to apply for information to the judge or judges who tried the case, and to afford, such judge or judges an opportunity of giving their opinion on such case, unless circumstances should exist which render any such, application impossible, or only possible with an inconvenient delay; but that it is not necessary that the executive Government should be bound to follow the advice, if any, tendered by such judge or judges," thought, that after what had fallen from his noble Friend, the noble Marquess was bound to give some direct answer to his question. He ought to state, whether the noble Viscount (Ebrington) had commuted the punishment of this convict after sentence of death had been passed on him in the most solemn way, without having first communicated with the judge before whom his trial took place, that convict being the principal in the murder for which others had suffered. In the last Session their Lordships had agreed to this resolution:—
1167"That it is the duty of the executive Government, when considering an case of conviction had before any of the King's judges, with a view to remitting or commuting the sentence, to apply for information to the judge or judges who tried the case, and to afford, such judge or judges an opportunity of giving their opinion on such case, unless circumstances should exist which render any such, application impossible, or only possible with an inconvenient delay; but that it is not necessary that the executive Government should be bound to follow the advice, if any, tendered by such judge or judges,"The Earl of Charleville
, in moving that the House should go into committee on the Vaccination Bill, said, that since it was last before their Lordships, he had seen the Poor-law Commissioners on the subject. He had agreed to certain suggestions made by them, and they had acceded to his views on other points. He wished, therefore, that the bill should now go through the committee, and be printed with the amendments.Lord Ellenborough
1194 had no objection to such a course, but he hoped the noble Lord, at least for the present,
1194The Marquess of Normanby
 thought the bill would be more favourably received in another place if it included Ireland, and, so doing, would remove the imputation that that country was neglected. He was perfectly aware the bill would be inoperative for the present, but it would gradually become so. If the noble Marquess wished to strike it out he had no objection.Lord Ellenborough
 would not make any further objection on the subject at present. He agreed with the noble Lord the bill would be more favourably received in another place if it included Ireland. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether he had understood correctly, that he had under his consideration another clause, which not only went to the promotion of vaccination, but the prohibition of inoculation by persons with no medical qualification. He had been in communication with the President of the College of Physicians, and many others connected with the profession, and it was the unanimous opinion the bill would not effect half the objects contemplated by it unless some penalty were attached to prevent the very great evil which arose from this practice. He would suggest to the noble Lord whether it would not be possible to frame a clause, which, without preventing inoculation altogether, did so with regard to persons who had not the proper medical qualification.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, his principle was rather to lead men to do that which was proper, by showing them the benefits that were likely to accrue from such a line of conduct, than to compel them, by penalties, to pursue it. If, however, such a clause as the noble Marquess recommended were introduced, he should not oppose it, although he was adverse to the principle.Lord Ellenborough
 said, it was well known that, in agricultural districts of the country, there had not been for many years past the least difficulty in obtaining vaccination gratuitously, but many of the ignorant poor were strongly prejudiced against it, and paid a much greater attention to empirics than to the advice of the clergy. He thought the bill would not do half the good that was intended, unless those persons were prevented, by penalty, from practising inoculation.The Bishop of London
 would not oppose a clause calculated to produce the effect desired by the right reverend Prelate.Lord Ellenborough
 clause, imposing a penalty on any non-professional man who should inoculate any patient, agreed to.The Marquess of Normanby's
 said he had stated, that the petition was from the inhabitants, and signed by Mr. Walmisley on their behalf, which the noble Earl would have known, if he had attended to him.The Marquess of Normanby
 congratulated their Lordships on receiving a petition presented by the noble Marquess, desiring that municipal corporations might be extended to the intelligence, moral worth, and property of Ireland. He should expect, that when the bill came before their Lordships, the noble Marquess would adhere to the principle laid down in the petition; and he could assure the noble Marquess, that if he would show that was the use, and object, and purpose of the bill, he would give it his cordial support.The Marquess of Westmeath
1196 was understood to say, that he would leave the
1196The Marquess of Normanby
 thought the intelligence, moral worth, or property of Ireland was not confined to the back lanes and back streets of the country.The Marquess of Westmeath
 thought every one practising inoculation should report the same to the registrar of the district.Lord Ashburton
1195 said, it was right that some provision should be made to prevent the numerous and daily mischief which arose, in consequence of ignorant persons inoculating with the small pox virus. It was not enough that men should be induced by persuasion to pursue a course that tended to their own
1195The Marquess of Lansdowne
 had examined the petition from the borough of Liverpool in favour of the Municipal Corporation Bill for Ireland presented by the noble Marquess, and found that it came from Joshua Walmisley, the mayor, and not from the inhabitants of that borough.The Earl of Charleville
1193, in presenting petitions from Scotland in favour of the non-intrusion principle, took that occasion to observe, that he had received various communications from different parts of the country, in consequence of some words which he had addressed to their Lordships on this subject, strongly remonstrating with him for advising delay in the settlement of this question. Now, that was a mistake. He never advised
1193The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, he could not state that Government were at that moment prepared with any measure on the subject. At the same time he admitted the right of the noble Earl, and of other noble Lords who were interested in this question, to learn the determination of the Government with respect to it at the earliest moment, in order that if Government did not take it up, others who had considered the subject might do so. He should, therefore, take care that their Lordships, at the earliest period, should receive the necessary information.Viscount Melbourne
, in laying before the House, pursuant to address copies of all communications between the Treasury and the Controller of the Exchequer, on the subject of certain papers and documents removed from the vaults at Somerset-house to the office at Whitehall-yard, said, that none of the Exchequer records which had been destroyed by order of the late Controller of the Exchequer were of the least importance. They were all examined before they were destroyed, and those that were condemned were, he believed, utterly worthless. The main records of that department had, for a long time, been in a state of great dilapidation, and were kept in a building adjoining their Lordships' House, where they remained until certain alterations rendered their removal necessary. They had then been examined, and many of them had been placed before the public in a printed shape. Those that were destroyed were of a class that had been used as temporary records, and had formerly been sold as waste paper. That practice had been put an end to, and it was considered preferable to destroy the documents when they were no longer useful.Lord Mont eagle
1199 said, he could not allow the observations of the noble Earl, or what might be implied from the language used by another noble Earl, to go forth without stating that neither the noble Earl who had just addressed their Lordships, nor the other noble Earl to whom allusion had been made, was justified in supposing that because the Government had delayed to bring forward a measure on this important subject, there had been any delay whatever in its consideration. So far from it, the fact was, that consideration was given to it at a very early period; and it was only the great importance of the questioned the very circumstances which the noble earl had stated, as to its difficulty, that had prevented the Government from bringing a measure forward. And, he must say, that he would much rather the Ministers incur the reproach, according to the expression of the noble Earl, of delay, than that of launching precipitately upon the question, without an opportunity of making themselves acquainted with all the opinions, feelings, and circumstances, that prevailed in Scotland with respect to it. He was convinced that if they took such a course, so far from allaying, it would materially aggravate those asperities of feeling on this subject which now unfortunately nately prevailed in Scotland. Having stated thus much, it was not his intention to offer any opinion on the subject, nor would he advert to the assertion of the noble Earl, that the Scotch clergy had followed up the principle and practice of
1199The Marquess of Lansdowne
 had not stated that Government had decided that any measure would be introduced by them, but that if they decided to introduce one, ample notice should be given on the subject; and if not, that full opportunity should be given for the introduction of a measure by others.The Marquess of Lansdowne
1200 said, the statement of the noble Marquess was so far satisfactory, because it appeared from it that Government would introduce a measure. [The Marquess of Lansdowne dissented.] Well, then, he supposed that he was mistaken. But, at any rate, he would suggest, that in taking ample time to consider any measure (if a measure were to be proposed) it would be right to keep in view a very important event with reference to the fate of such a measure—he alluded to the meeting, early in the month of May, of the General Assembly. It was of essential importance, if a measure on this subject were introduced, that it should be considered by Parliament before that meeting. He threw out this suggestion only to remind the noble Marquess that great inconvenience would be experienced, if a measure were introduced into
1200The Earl of Aberdeen
 was sorry that the papers were destroyed, because, although they might be of little value to the Controller of the Exchequer, many persons of an antiquarian turn would be desirous of possessing them at a higher price than that of waste paper. He conceived that there was a very proper and just ground for inquiry when documents were destroyed which might be connected with questions of property.Lord Redesdale
 was much pleased, that what he had said had elicited a more explicit declaration of the intentions of Government than had heretofore been given. He was, however, anxious to prevent a mistake going abroad with respect to what he had said relative to the Scotch Clergy, and which had been misunderstood by the noble Marquess. He was far from charging against the clergy of the Church of Scotland that which the noble Marquess appeared to suppose. On the contrary, he had specially stated, that he had the greatest respect for them generally; but he might add, that he knew, of his own knowledge, that some members of that Church had resorted to practices in the course of this dispute, which were very much like those adopted by the Roman Catholic priesthood.The Earl of Galloway
11981197 rose to say, that not having been so fortunate as to be in the House during the conversation which took place on non-intrusion the preceding day, he begged to say a few words. He had learnt from the ordinary channels of information (he hoped, correctly), that a noble Earl (Aberdeen) had stated that he had received letters of remonstrance from various parts of Scotland, for having advised the Government to delay the settlement of the church question, and he explained that, so far from having advised, he had rather blamed the Government for the delay which had taken place, but that he had urged on her Majesty's Ministers, if they had thus far postponed the consideration of the subject, not to be induced to come to a rash and precipitate decision at last, which, instead of being accessory to, might be prejudicial to the final and proper settlement of the question. Now, it so happened that these observations fell from the noble Earl the same day that he had thought it his duty, in consequence of the representations which he had received from Scotland, to urge on the Government not to allow another month to pass without an endeavour to effect some satisfactory settlement. He did not say that the noble Earl's observations were intended as a reflection on him, but that, in point of time, they had followed immediately after his observations Wherefore, in his own defence, he wished to state some of the reasons which had induced him to urge the subject on the
11981197The Earl of Galloway
1201 said, that before any one single paper was destroyed, a due examination was made by persons considered to be most competent to judge of their worth and value. Of those persons one had been in the public service for forty-
1201Lord Monteagle
1255 presented a petition from Stirling, praying for the immediate and entire abolition of Corn-laws. He could not present that petition without stating to their Lordships his opinion that the evils of which the petitioners complained was by them grossly exaggerated, and that the remedy which they desired would be impracticable. The total abolition of the Corn-laws would be a fearful shock to the landed and other property, and it would produce most injurious consequences to the labouring population. He thought, however, that a change ought to be made which would benefit the commercial and manufacturing classes, without injuring the agricultural. He thought that an alteration in the scale of duties to the schedule proposed by Mr. Canning in 1827, would remove all the evils properly and reasonably complained
1255The Earl of Rosebery
1256sss was sensible nothing could be more inconvenient than a discussion on this important subject on so slight an occasion as the presentation of a petition, and it was not his intention to produce one. But he could not allow the statement of the Noble Earl to pass by unnoticed—that great evil had arisen from the present system of Corn-laws. He thought if anything were wanting to justify these laws, it would be what had passed in this country during the two last years. He had been by no means favourable to the present state of the law on its introduction, but it was hardly possible to conceive any artificial system that would work more advantageously. There had been less fluctuation in this country than in any other part of the world. Looking at the great quantity imported, it was a matter of surprise to him to see how fully that supply had been brought in; and when Gentlemen talked of the dangers of fluctuation, they seemed to have forgotten that the price of food, above all other articles, was that in which there was necessarily great fluctuation, and it was matter of surprise to him to see how little fluctuation had taken place. When the law was introduced, it was expected the average price would be 601256sssLord Ashburton
Then let it stand for Friday, as the noble Duke appears to think that the noble and learned Lord may be sufficiently recovered by that day.Viscount Melbourne.—
 If the noble Viscount chooses to quote my words, I beg he may quote exactly. I wished the second reading put off till the end of next week.The Duke of Wellington.—
Friday se'nnight is the end of next week. Let the second reading be fixed for that day.Viscount Melbourne.—
 then gave notice that, if on that day the noble Viscount proceeded with the bill, he should move an adjournment.The Marquess of Londonderry
1309 observed, that other noble Lords, as well as those to whom reference had been made, were naturally anxious to take a part in any discussions which might arise upon the subject of municipal corporations in Ireland. There was one noble Friend of his in particular who had taken a leading part in the recent inquiry into the Government of Ireland (the Earl of Roden), who had not yet arrived from Ireland, but who was known to entertain very strong opinions against the bill. There were many other noble Lords connected with that part of the United Kingdom, who also ought to be afforded an opportunity of expressing their sentiments upon that important measure, which they regarded as a plan for giving increased power to the party who was considered to dictate all the measures and proceedings of her Majesty's Govern-
1309The Marquess of Londonderry
1311 observed, that the noble Duke had not said that the noble and learned Lord would be able to attend on Friday in his place, but had said that he feared he would not be able to attend to business at all till the end of next week. Even the supposing him favourable to the second reading, the noble and learned Lord might be called to account in that House for having supported the principle of the measure, and it would be only fair to give him an opportunity of explaining and defending his own conduct. The noble Duke had never said that business of importance ought not to be done before Easter; the noble Duke would be the last to recognise anything of the sort; but this every one must see, that Parliament had now been assembled two months, and not one measure of importance had been proposed in that House. Her Majesty's Government had left off using that House as a branch of the Legislature in which to originate measures, and therefore so little
1311The Earl of Haddington
1312, seeing the noble Marquess in his place, he would take the liberty to ask him a question relative to a matter which had been communicated to him by a gentleman resident in the county of Carlow, with whom he was well acquainted, and who was a person of the highest respectability. That gentleman had stated to him, that on a certain day a number of persons amounting to upwards of 1,200, headed by two Roman Catholic priests, and carrying two banners inscribed with the word "temperance," and having medals suspended round their necks, paraded the town of Carlow, and that they were permitted to do so under the special sanction of the Lord-
1312The Duke of Buckingham
 replied, that he was not aware of any memorial of the kind, nor had he heard of any of the proceedings.The Marquess of Normanby
An original.The Earl of Aberdeen,—
 expressed a hope that the provisions of the bill would be applied to Scotland as well as England and Ireland, otherwise the benefits which were to be expected from the measure would be counteracted, or, at any rate, lessened by increasing the danger of contagion. He did really hope, therefore, that the noble Lord, who with so much promptitude and spirit had introduced the bill, would communicate with the noble Lords near him who were connected with Scotland, and that he would also enter into some communication with the Lord-advocate for that country, so that some mode might be devised by which the bill might be extended to Scotland as well as England and Ireland, and thus be rendered more efficient.The Earl of Rosebery
1317 admitted that the
1317Lord Ellenborough
13191318 said, that he should have expected from her Majesty's Government some explanation of what was intended to be done with respect to that measure, and he apprehended that their Lordships would be of the same opinion when he stated to them what the contents of that bill were. Probably it might not be known that the provision for the Protestant Church establishment in Canada consisted, solely of those clergy reserves. Now, it was provided by an act passed in the year 1791 that those lands should be set apart for the maintenance of the Protestant clergy in Canada. It would be exceedingly improper in him to advert to all the proceedings which had taken place upon this subject, but he would remark, that in order to prevent any improper interference by the local Legislature with these reserved lands, it had been enacted, that any act of that body which altered the disposition of those clergy reserves should be laid for thirty days before both Houses of Parliament before it passed into a law. Now, this bill did not alter or vary, but actually repealed, the act of 1791. It gave one-quarter of the reserved lands to the Church of England, one-quarter to the Church of Scotland, and two quarters, one-half of the clergy reserves, to the Dissenters of every denomination in that country. Now, this was a bill which he considered so entirely objectionable in its principle, and so objectionable also in its details, that he had looked with anxiety for some statement from her Majesty's Government as to the views which they entertained in relation to that measure. The bill was to be laid before Parliament for thirty days, and some of those thirty days would fall into the Easter holydays, so that the pro-
13191318The Archbishop of Canterbury
1321 expected, that when her Majesty's Government thought fit to lay a bill of such vast importance on the table, they would at least have given their own opinion as to the merits of the measure. If there were no other reason for forming that expectation, he had at least a reason in the announcement which had been made in another place by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, that when the present bill was laid upon the table, he would accompany it with an intimation whether the bill was or was not to receive the sanction of her Majesty's Government. They had now heard from the noble Lord that it was the intention of Ministers to advise her Majesty to assent to the bill, and he had heard it with the greatest pain. He would not hesitate to say, that if ever an iniquitous or unconstitutional measure had been presented to that House by any Ministers, the bill now before them deserved to be called so. It was not without reason that he made that declaration; he should be in due time prepared to justify it, and he trusted that their Lordships would be prepared to interpose the shield of their protection between the Established Church of
1321The Bishop of London
 said, that both the most rev. Prelate and the right rev. Prelate had spoken of this bill as if it had come up to their Lordships from the House of Commons. They seemed to have overlooked the fact that it was not a bill introduced into this Parliament, but a measure that had received the sanction of the colonial legislature, including the representatives of the persons who were interested in the subject.Lord Holland
1322 said, that considering the very great importance of this measure, and the deep interest which was felt in it by the inhabitants of Upper Canada, he confessed he did not think that her Majesty's Government could in fairness to the Legislature and people of Canada have delayed laying it on the table for a single day. At the same time it was very inconvenient that it should be laid on the table at this particular moment, not only on account of the circumstance stated by the most rev. Prelate, that there were but twenty-three clear business days for considering it, but on account of the absence of
1322Lord Ellenborough
 wished to call the attention of the noble Viscount to the degree in which the corn question had been made the instrument of agitation. He need hardly dwell upon the importance of such a subject to the agricultural interest. There were many persons belonging to, and connected with, the agricultural classes of this country, who abstained from addressing petitions to Parliament, relying with confidence upon the declarations made in the last session by the noble Viscount at the head of her Majesty's Government. He (Lord Ashburton) now wished to know from the noble Viscount, whether he remained of the same opinion which he expressed last year upon this momentous subject.Lord Ashburton
 conceived that the proposed delay was unusual, and he thought it the more extraordinary, as the bill had already been delayed at the request of the noble Duke opposite;—[The Duke of Wellington—No.] The bill had been brought up from the Commons in the early part of the present month. A delay of three weeks had, therefore, arisen, and he thought it was quite as much as could be expected from his noble Friend to delay the measure till Friday week. He could not sit down without protesting against the doctrine that no important business was ever to be transacted before Easter. The Government could not help the absence of noble Lords.The Marquess of Lansdowne
 said, that he had a petition to present which had been sent to him from a remote part of Ireland, and which was rather curious in its nature. It was signed by all the medical practitioners of the county of Galway, and he was glad that it had been intrusted to him, as it gave him an opportunity of making known, that Ireland was included in the bill for the extension of vaccination introduced by the noble Lord opposite. He was happy to say so, because the necessity for it was far greater in Ireland than in England. He was informed, by a letter received from a magistrate of the county of Galway, that persons of notoriously bad character had been going about the country bribing the inhabitants of some small village, perhaps, to allow themselves to be inoculated with the small-pox, and then going about telling all the people roundabout that the small-pox was in the neighbourhood, and obtaining money for inoculating the people as a preventive.The Marquess of Lansdowne
 stated, that the bill had passed the Upper Canada House of Assembly on the 15th of January 1840, and the Legislative Council on the 20th of January, 1840.Viscount Duncannon
 was exceedingly sorry that the most rev. Prelate had misunderstood the objects with which he had laid the bill on the table. It had been far from his intention to take the House by surprise, and raise a debate without any notice, and therefore he had intended, when the most rev. Prelate interrupted him, to move that the bill be printed, so that it might be placed in their Lordships' hands. He had no doubt when that was done that an explanation would be given of the measure.Viscount Duncannon
 laid on the table, by her Majesty's command, an act passed by the Legislature of Upper Canada relating to the subject of the Clergy Reserves.Viscount Duncannon
1315 said, there could be no doubt that a great deal of matter of the same description might have been discovered; but that was a reason why
1315The Earl of Aberdeen
13141313 was sorry to say that a great deal of carelessness had been displayed in the destruction of these re-
13141313The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, that on examining the papers which had been laid on the table of their Lordships' House, relating to the destruction of the Exchequer records, he found that those which related to the actual destruction of the papers commenced on the 17th of March, 1838, and ended on the 18th of December in the same year. Now, their Lordships would remember, that a bill had been passed by which all the records of the country were placed under the control of the Master of the Rolls. Therefore the Exchequer had no authority to act as it had acted. He should be glad if the noble Lord opposite would give some further explanation of this matter.Lord Redesdale
1316ll referred the noble Lord (Monteagle) to the Act of Parliament on the subject, and said his reading of it was very different from that of the noble Lord, It was clear to him that the records were transferred to the custody of the Master of the Rolls by the first clause of the 1st and 2nd of Victoria, cap. 94, and that the proceedings of the Exchequer had been illegal. The return itself furnished a clear proof of negligence, inasmuch as Mr. Devon wrote to the Controller of the Exchequer on the 24th of March, 1836,sta-ting that the ancient documents were lying in a vault which exposed them to destruction, but not one single step to save them was made until March, 1838; so that after they had been pointed out as being in a perishable condition, they were allowed to remain and rot for two years more. Then, with regard to the proceedings of the Exchequer, it appeared that there were about "a hundred boxes of papers so piled upon each other, that the contents without great labour could not be ascertained." But it did not follow that those documents should be treated as waste paper, and that a contract should be made with any person who chose to enter into it to remove those boxes at 81316llLord Redesdale
, then, doubted extremely whether that document came out of that lot which was sold. They might have come out of the pells.Lord Monteagle
 said, he was very sorry that the question should be put to him in the absence of his noble Friend, because, if he were present, he would be able to set him right, if the reply he was about to give was at all founded in any misapprehension. He believed the noble Lord had not attentively considered the act of Parliament, or he would have found, that though it was perfectly true that certain records were to be placed under the control of the Master of the Rolls, an office at present filled by a noble Lord whose manner of discharging its duties entitled him to the gratitude of the House, yet those documents were specified in the act, and they were the pell records, which were so transferred from the Exchequer to the Rolls. But the documents referred to in the returns had no relation whatever to the pells, but were documents over which the Rolls had no power to exercise any control. The papers which had been destroyed were not of the nature of pells, but were entirely of another character.Lord Monteagle
 said, he must say a few words in justice to his right hon. Friend who preceded him in office, for personally, the House would please to recollect, he had no concern whatever in this proceeding, having been called on to become Controller of the Exchequer after the destruction of those documents. Still he was not the less disposed to do justice to his right hon. Friend. When so much was said about the destruction of important papers, noble Lords, and particularly the noble Earl, seemed to exclude from their memory, that had it not been for the interposition of his right hon. Friend, the whole of the papers would have been destroyed. For fifty years previously, the records in question, about which so much anxiety now was expressed, were left in an open vault, subject to the irruption of the tide from the Thames, and they might have been destroyed but for the interposition of his right hon. Friend. That fact was proved by the documents now before the House. But it had been said that carelessness had been manifested in the discharge of this business. Persons most conversant with the documents had been employed; and among them was a gentleman who had served under the late Lord Grenville for fifty years. In the return was a letter from Mr. Devon, who was a gentleman of great antiquarian research, in proof of the competency of the persons employed in the business. Many of the documents which had been sold might be valuable as matters of curiosity, but not as public records. Moreover, they might not be originals, but copies. Was the letter from Rome which the noble Earl had mentioned an original or a copy?Lord Monteagle
 replied, that he continued of the same opinion. He was against the total repeal of the corn laws, at the same time that he reserved to himself the power of agreeing to any modification of them which might meet his views of the real interests of the country. He repeated, that he remained of the same opinion which he had formerly expressed, and that the responsible advisers of the Crown would not, as a Government, propose any change.Viscount Melbourne
1320 did not mean to accuse the most rev. Prelate of any unfairness in making the observations which had fallen from him; but, on the other hand, he must say, that the charge of unfairness which he had made against her Majesty's Government was not one which could in justice be sustained. The Government had done that which was prescribed by the act of Parliament. The Government were directed by the act of Parliament to lay the bill on the table of the House, and if the bill were unobjected to for thirty days after it had been laid on
1320Viscount Melbourne
 presented a petition from Stayley-bridge, praying for a total repeal of the corn laws.Viscount Melbourne
, at the request of the noble Duke, had already postponed the bill for a considerable time. As to the absence of the noble Lords, upon which so much stress has been laid, he must be permitted to say, that however anxious he might be for the presence and assistance of those who were accustomed to take so prominent a part in their proceedings, he still thought that if business were to be put off on account of their absence, the House could not get on with any business at all. He wished to know whether the noble Duke would agree to letting the second reading be fixed for Monday, with the understanding, that if the noble and learned Lord were not well enough to attend in his place, that a further postponement should take place. When Monday came they would probably know better how soon the noble and learned Lord would be likely to be present.Viscount Melbourne
1307 replied, that it would be impossible not to accede to the request just made by the noble Duke; but, if he recollected rightly, the noble and learned Lord was not opposed to the principle of the measure, and they might, therefore, expect, that whatever discussion did take place upon the bill would occur in the committee; the committal of the bill might therefore be postponed; but that could hardly be said to form any reason against their proceeding with the second reading. There was another bill, however, which, if passed at all, ought to be proceeded with immediately. He alluded to a bill, printed papers bill, which had just come up from the Commons. He
1307Viscount Melbourne
 certainly understood that the noble and learned Lord now absent in consequence of illness had no objection to the principle of the bill, having twice acceded to that principle. Any objections which he did entertain were merely to matters of detail, which could not be gone into on the second reading, but left for the committee, and he did not object to postpone the committal of the bill; all he desired was that this bill, already three weeks before them, might be read a second time on Monday next. The reason of the House being hurried, as generally happened towards the close of a Session, was, that they were too much in the habit of delaying business in the earlier part of the year, and for that, as well as for the other reasons which he had stated, he did hope that their Lordships would proceed on Monday next with the second reading of the bill.Viscount Melbourne
 said, that whenever he delayed business he gave a reason for doing so; he did not delay business by neglecting it—he did not delay business, and then call upon those under him to help him out of the difficulties which that delay occasioned—he never asked that business should be delayed on his account, but he must say, that he thought the illness of his noble and learned Friend was a sufficient reason for postponing the second reading of the bill referred to, and that the absence of several noble Lords now attending to their public duties was a sufficient reason for the postponement of both bills.The Duke of Wellington
 begged to assure the noble Viscount that no one could be more anxious than he was to see the question relating to the Irish corporations satisfactorily settled; but he could hardly think that any arrangement made, or any measure adopted in the absence of his noble and learned Friend, could prove satisfactory to the public. With respect to the other measure, he begged noble Lords to observe, that nearly all the learned Members of the House were at present either ill or out of town; they could only reckon upon the assistance of those who were then in the House—namely, the noble and learned Lord upon the Woolsack, and his noble and learned Friend near him (Lord Wynford.) The noble and learned Chief Justice of the Court of Queen's Bench, and his noble and learned Friend, the Chief Baron of the Court of Exchequer, were both out of town engaged on public business, and both would, of course, be anxious to take a part in any discussions in that House upon such a measure. Besides these, another and learned Lord (Brougham), was likewise absent from London. Upon such a bill as that to which the noble Viscount had just alluded, he should, of course, be desirous of having the opinion of those noble and learned persons, and, if possible, their concurrence. The noble Viscount surely could not wish to pass such a measure by surprise; it could not answer the views of the Government, or of any party in the state, to press such a measure hastily through the House, and he hoped, therefore, it might be put off. With respect to the second reading of the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Bill, he must repeat his recommendation that it be postponed. It was a most important measure, and the second reading was a most important stage of that, as of every bill. He did not intend to oppose the second reading, but other noble Lords were opposed to the measure altogether, and they ought to be allowed an opportunity of delivering their sentiments and recording their votes; it was only fair to give them an opportunity of being present. The Session was not drawing to a close, else he would by no means recommend any postponement, but, on the contrary, would say go on with the bills forthwith; but now he confessed that he saw no reason for haste.The Duke of Wellington
 got up for the purpose of requesting the noble Viscount on the other side of the House to postpone the second reading of the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Bill, which stood for next Monday. His noble and learned Friend (Lord Lyndhurst) had taken, on former occasions, an active part in reference to that measure. It now unfortunately happened that his noble and learned Friend was exceedingly unwell, and most probably would be unable for some days to attend to business. He submitted, then, that in the absence of his noble and learned Friend, it would be most desirable to put off the measure until the House could have the advantage of his assistance in its discussion.The Duke of Wellington
1310 said there was no use in agreeing to put off the second reading of the bill with any understanding; the noble Viscount might bring forward the bill and move its second reading on any day that to him might appear the most convenient. If he did propose the second reading in the absence of the noble Lords who might be expected to take a part in the discussion, he (the Duke of Wellington) would adopt such a course as the occasion might teem to him to require; he should then act as he thought proper. He had told the noble Viscount the inconvenience of thus pressing forward the measure; he had further to call his attention to the circumstance that at this period of the session noble Lords did not expect business of importance to come on in that House, and that many were still remaining in Ireland, and others were abroad. Why should they be brought from their homes sooner than was necessary. The circumstances stated were generally considered to be a sufficient ground for the postponement of public business. The noble Viscount had been informed of the illness of his noble and learned Friend, he might call the physicians attending him if he thought proper. If the noble Viscount himself happened to be ill, that circumstance would be con-
1310The Duke of Wellington
: When did the bill pass through its stages in Canada.The Duke of Wellington
4746l.l.45 said, he should not have offered himself to their Lordships' notice if it had not been for an observation of the noble Viscount as to the conduct of the negotiation with the Chinese. The noble Viscount had objected to the last part of the address of the noble Earl, that her Majesty be entreated to prevent these proceedings in China, and to grant further powers to the superintendent for that purpose, the noble Viscount objecting that it would hold out delusive expectations, and he went further, and said that, by agreeing to it, their Lordships would embarrass her Majesty's Government in their negotiations with the Chinese government, and prejudice the whole discussion. He thought that this was a subject for serious conside-
4746l.l.45Lord Ellenborough
 agreed with the noble Duke, that the Chinese had now put themselves in the wrong, though they had formerly been in the right, and had thereby rendered war inevitable. British subjects had, however, originally caused the war, and blame must rest somewhere. By the terms of the noble Earl's motion, their Lordships were not called upon to discuss that question now. He could not look upon the war but with feelings of the deepest regret, and he could not sympathize with the feelings of exultation with which some persons talked of prosecuting this most rigorous quarrel to a righteous end. He feared that nothing deserving the epithet righteous belonged to it, and that nothing deserving the name of triumph would result from it, though he trusted that the issue might place our commercial relations with China on a fair and just footing with respect both to us and to the Chinese government. With great reluctance he must vote against the motion of the noble Earl.Lord Lyttetton
fortiter in re.suaviter in modo,48 observed, that even if we applied all our efforts to satisfy the Chinese government, he believed that we should be unable to effect that object; and he could not but feel that there were circumstances attending these transactions of a description which did not make the country enter into this contest with as much good feeling, and as much confidence as if the occasion were altogether different. At the same time he felt that we had no alternative—that we must make some demonstration of force. The authorities at Pekin imagined that England trembled at their name, and he must say, that he thought they would never give us credit for being influenced by those considerations of humanity upon which the noble Earl laid so much stress. All his humanity, he was sure, would be thrown away upon the Chinese. He could not but further observe that no pains had been taken in this matter by way of negotiation or discussion with the Chinese. Some of their papers were equal to any that Europeans could produce; they were a much more understanding people, and a much more understanding government, than was generally supposed; and he thought that if proper pains and care were taken, the whole matter might be brought to an amicable adjustment. It was impossible that a people who reasoned so acutely should not be open to reason. He was the more confident in his belief that reason and negotiation could not fail to lead to beneficial results, when he recollected the success which attended various missions from this country to China. Those missions had been attended with considerable success, and he saw no reason why similar experiments should not again be tried. The Chinese were a sensible and well-judging people; he confessed that, looking at their papers, he could not help thinking so, and the first thing needful was to convince them that we desired nothing more than to carry on trade peaceably and in good faith. At these objects he thought the Queen's Government should aim, endeavouring at the same time, as far as possible, to remedy the ill effects resulting from past mismanagement—for example, the extreme mismanagement of leaving a British officer for so long a time without any system of
fortiter in re.suaviter in modo,48Lord Ashburton
44 said, that though it might be difficult to enforce obedience upon our merchants to abstain from the opium trade, we might leave the Chinese government to themselves. Previous to the arrival of the Imperial Commissioner at Canton, an edict had been issued, the last of a series of warnings addressed to the foreign merchants, reminding them of former edicts against the opium trade, and of the execution of native offenders, and desiring them to send away the opium vessels, and confine themselves to lawful trade, or the Emperor would close the ports for ever. Of this warning our merchants took no notice. Under these circumstances, the Imperial Commissioner, on his arrival, considered which of two measures he should adopt— to expel the opium vessels by force, or to
44Lord Colchester
, in reply, said, that the observations which he had felt himself called upon to address to their Lordships, had not yet been answered; he had not taken exception to the conduct of Government because of his objection to the use of intoxicating substances, though for years past he had the honour to be a teetotaller; on the contrary, he founded his objections to their proceedings upon the principles of international law. The noble and illustrious Duke had moved the previous question, a course which was very proper when a subject was not proper to be discussed; and he could not help saying that the noble and illustrious Duke would have taken a more manly course if he had met his motion by a direct negative. However their Lordships might deal with his motion, he should at least have the satisfaction of recording his sentiments on the journal of their Lordships' proceedings.Earl Stanhope
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, to express to her Majesty the deep concern of this House in learning that an interruption has occurred in the friendly relations and commercial intercourse which had so long subsisted with the Chinese empire; and to represent to her Majesty that these calamities have, in the opinion of this House, been occasioned by British subjects having persevered in taking opium to China, in direct and known violation of the laws of that empire; and to request that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take immediate measures for the prevention of such proceedings, which are so dishonourable to the character, and so detrimental to the interests of her subjects; and to assure her Majesty, that if any additional powers should be found requisite for the purpose, this House will readily concur in granting them to her Majesty."Justum bellum quia necessarium—pia arma quibus nulla nisi in armis salus.26"The stock of opium given up to the Chinese as nearly useless, and its confiscation as a measure nothing short of salvation to the opium trade generally considered.""Those who violated the laws of the Chinese empire must do so at their own risk."25l.242322"Those feelings of irritation which have betrayed me into a measure that I am sensible, under less trying circumstances, would be difficult, indeed, of vindication.""As many ships of war as can be detached and armed vessels;" "the whole to be instructed to conform to my requisitions."21l."Every person who shall assist, or be in any way concerned in the illegal removal of any goods from any warehouse or place of security in which they shall have been deposited, shall forfeit either the treble value thereof, or the penalty of 100l.20ex post facto19"Her Majesty's Government cannot interfere for the purpose of enabling British subjects to violate the laws of the country to which they trade. Any loss, therefore, which such persons may suffer, in consequence of
1918"Your Lordship may rely upon my measured but firmest opposition to an intolerably injurious aggression of this practical nature."17Hamlet16"The peaceful and conciliatory policy by which the King's Government appear to me to desire to maintain and promote the commercial intercourse with this empire is not very generally approved amongst the fifty or sixty resident merchants at Canton; and a determination to give it effect, so far as depends upon me, is the least popular task I could have proposed to myself.""And because, too, I believe they are, in many important respects, the most moderate and reasonable people on the face of the earth. Seeking nothing but justice (and no people are more capable of clear perceptions of the reality of what they receive under that name), I am persuaded that they will have the good sense, for the sake of mutual convenience, to take it at our hands; regarding, indeed, the form under which it is administered to them with feelings of perfect indifference.""I offer these opinions, because I am sure that the Chinese have great confidence in the good faith of the Europeans."15"Strengthened by every day's experience in this country, that there is an increasing disposition, on the part of the Chinese government, to conciliate that of his Majesty.""Before the arrival of the High Commissioner, I had steadily considered the expediency of formally requiring all the British ships engaged in the opium trade to sail away from the coast of China,"14"No doubt many of them have been engaged in the illicit traffic.""Whenever her Majesty's Government direct us to prevent British vessels engaging in the traffic, we can enforce any order to that effect.""Again announces in distinct terms, that lie has no authority to pursue the course indicated in the edict of the 20th.""Her Majesty had neither the right nor the power to forbid the importation of opium in foreign bottoms.""He had no formal knowledge of the existence of any other trade than that to Canton.""My commission extends only to the regular trade with this empire.""He sees only the papers of British ships which arrive within the port, and that, therefore, he is without any public means of knowing whether the ships resorting to these anchorages are British ships, what is the nature of their pursuits, whence they come, or whither they go."13"Whether the opium is carried outside the river and lodged and carried afterwards on shore it is sufficient for me, though no British vessels navigate the river."d.s.12"Dangerous and disgraceful in the last degree," and says "none other than lawful commerce will ever receive the least countenance or protection from the Queen's Government.""But it is asked on the other hand, whether the wise and good purposes of the Emperor cannot and should not be fulfilled? Most assuredly they can, and they ought."'The great evils so justly denounced by his Imperial Majesty, and calls for the suppression of the opium traffic, "and for" a great moral and religious reformation.'"For the putting down of that trade which every friend of humanity must deplore." "A traffic which by the present means of its pursuit, must every day become more dangerous to the peace of this ancient empire, and more discreditable to the character of the Christian nations under whose flags it is carried on.""The urgent necessity of arresting the growing audacity of the foreign smugglers.""In its general effects was intensely mischievous to every branch of the trade, and that it was rapidly staining the British character with deep disgrace, and, finally, that it exposed the vast public and private interests involved in the peaceful maintenance of our regular commercial intercourse with the empire, in imminent jeopardy.""The undersigned is without doubt that the continuance of this traffic in the inner waters will involve the whole foreign community at Canton in some disastrous difficulty; and his gracious Sovereign would not interfere for the protection of their property on the behalf of those British subjects who continue to practise these dangerous disorders, after your Excellency's public warning shall be authentically made known to them through the officers of their own nation."11"Such courses exposed us more and more to the just indignation of this Government and people, and diminished the sympathies of our own.""It had been clear to me, my Lord, from the origin of this peculiar branch of the opium traffic, that it must grow to be more and more mischievous to every branch of the trade, and certainly to none more than to that of opium itself. As the danger and the shame of its pursuit increased, it was obvious that it would fall by rapid degrees into the hands of more and more desperate men; that it would stain the foreign character with constantly aggravating disgrace in the sight of the whole of the better portion of this people; and, lastly, that it would connect itself more and more intimately with our lawful commercial intercourse, to the great peril of vast public and private interests. And all these desperate hazards have been incurred, my Lord, for the comparatively insignificant gains of a few reckless individuals, who unquestionably found their conduct on the belief that they are exempt from the operation of all law, British and Chinese.""The actual state of things cannot continue to be left to the turn of events without seriously risking vast public and private interests, or without such deeply-rooted injury to the national character in the estimation of this huge portion of mankind as it is indeed painful to reflect upon.""The fact of such an article being known to be by far the most important part of our import trade, is in itself a source of painful reflection, and the wide-spreading mischief, which the manner of its pursuit has necessarily entailed, so ably and so faithfully represented in some of the papers I have had the honour to transmit to your Lordships, aggravates the discomfort of the whole subject.'' "It cannot be good that the conduct of a great trade should be so dependent upon the steady continuance of a vast prohibited traffic in an article of vicious luxury, high in price, and liable to frequent and prodigious fluctuation. In a mere commercial point of view, therefore, I believe it is susceptible of proof that the gradual diversion of British capital into other channels of employment than this would be attended with advantageous consequences."109"We have repeatedly written to the foreigners, begging them not to infringe the prohibitory laws.""By the foreigners smuggling opium we are constantly involved in trouble;" and they add, "that they are determined no longer to suffer for others' misdeeds.""I had certainly come to the conclusion, for some months since, that the determination of the court to put down the trade was firmly adopted.""There seems, my Lord, no longer reason to doubt that the court has firmly determined to suppress, or more probably, most extensively to check the opium trade.""There has been no relaxation of vigour of the Government, directed not only against the introduction of the opium, but in a far more remarkable manner against the consumers;"8"The Governor has lately incurred the severe displeasure of the court, upon the ground of the lax execution of the orders concerning the more effectual prevention of the traffic in opium," and adds, "a remarkable increase of activity has ensued.""The deliveries of opium have frequently been accompanied by conflict of fire arms between those vessels and the Government preventive craft,"7"That he had frequently been urged to dismiss the opium ships from the usual anchorage outside the port.""If the receiving ships are again brought, that the commercial intercourse shall assuredly be altogether interdicted, and on the resident foreigners of the said nation, the laws shall be executed capitally.""But that it (the opium trade) has gone to this length, is altogether attributable to the conduct of the great officers of the abovenamed province in times past; to their sloth and remissness, their fearfulness and timidity, their anxiety to show themselves liberal and indulgent, by which they have been led to neglect obedience to the prohibitory enactments, and to fail in the strict enforcement of the precautionary regulations;""That the laws are not wanting in severity, but there are those in office who, from want of energy, fail to carry them into execution.""That it is indispensably necessary to enact severe prohibitions against the use of opium.""The actual degree of rigorous prohibition," and stated "that for the last two months, the local Government has been keeping a system of severe restriction, with respect to this branch of the trade, which has been successful to a, great extent.""Imposed penalties on those who take the opium from the ship, on the officers who are negligent in keeping guard, on those who take fees to connive, and on those who melt (or prepare) opium, and threatens a, stoppage of the trade."65"Perhaps nothing could contribute more readily to the final reduction of the Chinese people to reasonable terms with foreigners than this steady and never ceasing impoverishment of the country, by the abstraction of the circulating medium."l.gubelle"If this state of things continues a few years longer, the price of silver will become so enhanced that it will be a question how the revenues collected can possibly be accounted for, or the gubellegabelle"That the land and capitation taxes, and the contributions for the supply of grain, are paid, for the most part, in all the provinces and districts in copper cash. When the sums collected are accounted for to government, these copper cash have to be exchanged for silver. The loss now experienced upon this exchange is so very heavy, that in consequence of it, the officers have everywhere to supply deficiencies in the revenue; whereas, formerly there was in general, an overplus. The salt merchants of the several provinces always sell the salt for copper coin, while they are invariably required to pay the gabelle4d.s3"And we do require you constantly to bear in mind and to impress, as occasion may offer, upon our subjects resident in, or resorting to China, the duty of conforming to the laws and usages of the Chinese empire."2 regretted, that the motion which he was about to propose to their Lordships on the subject of the traffic in opium, had not been taken up by some person of greater abilities, and better able to do justice to the question than he was. But it might, in some degree, compensate for any deficiency on his part, when it was recollected that the individual who brought the subject forward was altogether unconnected with any other party, and could have no other object in view than the honour and interest of his country in introducing a question which deeply involved both the one and the other. In submitting this subject to their Lordships' consideration, he hoped that he should not be obliged to trespass on their Lordships for any great
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, to express to her Majesty the deep concern of this House in learning that an interruption has occurred in the friendly relations and commercial intercourse which had so long subsisted with the Chinese empire; and to represent to her Majesty that these calamities have, in the opinion of this House, been occasioned by British subjects having persevered in taking opium to China, in direct and known violation of the laws of that empire; and to request that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take immediate measures for the prevention of such proceedings, which are so dishonourable to the character, and so detrimental to the interests of her subjects; and to assure her Majesty, that if any additional powers should be found requisite for the purpose, this House will readily concur in granting them to her Majesty."Justum bellum quia necessarium—pia arma quibus nulla nisi in armis salus.26"The stock of opium given up to the Chinese as nearly useless, and its confiscation as a measure nothing short of salvation to the opium trade generally considered.""Those who violated the laws of the Chinese empire must do so at their own risk."25l.242322"Those feelings of irritation which have betrayed me into a measure that I am sensible, under less trying circumstances, would be difficult, indeed, of vindication.""As many ships of war as can be detached and armed vessels;" "the whole to be instructed to conform to my requisitions."21l."Every person who shall assist, or be in any way concerned in the illegal removal of any goods from any warehouse or place of security in which they shall have been deposited, shall forfeit either the treble value thereof, or the penalty of 100l.20ex post facto19"Her Majesty's Government cannot interfere for the purpose of enabling British subjects to violate the laws of the country to which they trade. Any loss, therefore, which such persons may suffer, in consequence of
1918"Your Lordship may rely upon my measured but firmest opposition to an intolerably injurious aggression of this practical nature."17Hamlet16"The peaceful and conciliatory policy by which the King's Government appear to me to desire to maintain and promote the commercial intercourse with this empire is not very generally approved amongst the fifty or sixty resident merchants at Canton; and a determination to give it effect, so far as depends upon me, is the least popular task I could have proposed to myself.""And because, too, I believe they are, in many important respects, the most moderate and reasonable people on the face of the earth. Seeking nothing but justice (and no people are more capable of clear perceptions of the reality of what they receive under that name), I am persuaded that they will have the good sense, for the sake of mutual convenience, to take it at our hands; regarding, indeed, the form under which it is administered to them with feelings of perfect indifference.""I offer these opinions, because I am sure that the Chinese have great confidence in the good faith of the Europeans."15"Strengthened by every day's experience in this country, that there is an increasing disposition, on the part of the Chinese government, to conciliate that of his Majesty.""Before the arrival of the High Commissioner, I had steadily considered the expediency of formally requiring all the British ships engaged in the opium trade to sail away from the coast of China,"14"No doubt many of them have been engaged in the illicit traffic.""Whenever her Majesty's Government direct us to prevent British vessels engaging in the traffic, we can enforce any order to that effect.""Again announces in distinct terms, that lie has no authority to pursue the course indicated in the edict of the 20th.""Her Majesty had neither the right nor the power to forbid the importation of opium in foreign bottoms.""He had no formal knowledge of the existence of any other trade than that to Canton.""My commission extends only to the regular trade with this empire.""He sees only the papers of British ships which arrive within the port, and that, therefore, he is without any public means of knowing whether the ships resorting to these anchorages are British ships, what is the nature of their pursuits, whence they come, or whither they go."13"Whether the opium is carried outside the river and lodged and carried afterwards on shore it is sufficient for me, though no British vessels navigate the river."d.s.12"Dangerous and disgraceful in the last degree," and says "none other than lawful commerce will ever receive the least countenance or protection from the Queen's Government.""But it is asked on the other hand, whether the wise and good purposes of the Emperor cannot and should not be fulfilled? Most assuredly they can, and they ought."'The great evils so justly denounced by his Imperial Majesty, and calls for the suppression of the opium traffic, "and for" a great moral and religious reformation.'"For the putting down of that trade which every friend of humanity must deplore." "A traffic which by the present means of its pursuit, must every day become more dangerous to the peace of this ancient empire, and more discreditable to the character of the Christian nations under whose flags it is carried on.""The urgent necessity of arresting the growing audacity of the foreign smugglers.""In its general effects was intensely mischievous to every branch of the trade, and that it was rapidly staining the British character with deep disgrace, and, finally, that it exposed the vast public and private interests involved in the peaceful maintenance of our regular commercial intercourse with the empire, in imminent jeopardy.""The undersigned is without doubt that the continuance of this traffic in the inner waters will involve the whole foreign community at Canton in some disastrous difficulty; and his gracious Sovereign would not interfere for the protection of their property on the behalf of those British subjects who continue to practise these dangerous disorders, after your Excellency's public warning shall be authentically made known to them through the officers of their own nation."11"Such courses exposed us more and more to the just indignation of this Government and people, and diminished the sympathies of our own.""It had been clear to me, my Lord, from the origin of this peculiar branch of the opium traffic, that it must grow to be more and more mischievous to every branch of the trade, and certainly to none more than to that of opium itself. As the danger and the shame of its pursuit increased, it was obvious that it would fall by rapid degrees into the hands of more and more desperate men; that it would stain the foreign character with constantly aggravating disgrace in the sight of the whole of the better portion of this people; and, lastly, that it would connect itself more and more intimately with our lawful commercial intercourse, to the great peril of vast public and private interests. And all these desperate hazards have been incurred, my Lord, for the comparatively insignificant gains of a few reckless individuals, who unquestionably found their conduct on the belief that they are exempt from the operation of all law, British and Chinese.""The actual state of things cannot continue to be left to the turn of events without seriously risking vast public and private interests, or without such deeply-rooted injury to the national character in the estimation of this huge portion of mankind as it is indeed painful to reflect upon.""The fact of such an article being known to be by far the most important part of our import trade, is in itself a source of painful reflection, and the wide-spreading mischief, which the manner of its pursuit has necessarily entailed, so ably and so faithfully represented in some of the papers I have had the honour to transmit to your Lordships, aggravates the discomfort of the whole subject.'' "It cannot be good that the conduct of a great trade should be so dependent upon the steady continuance of a vast prohibited traffic in an article of vicious luxury, high in price, and liable to frequent and prodigious fluctuation. In a mere commercial point of view, therefore, I believe it is susceptible of proof that the gradual diversion of British capital into other channels of employment than this would be attended with advantageous consequences."109"We have repeatedly written to the foreigners, begging them not to infringe the prohibitory laws.""By the foreigners smuggling opium we are constantly involved in trouble;" and they add, "that they are determined no longer to suffer for others' misdeeds.""I had certainly come to the conclusion, for some months since, that the determination of the court to put down the trade was firmly adopted.""There seems, my Lord, no longer reason to doubt that the court has firmly determined to suppress, or more probably, most extensively to check the opium trade.""There has been no relaxation of vigour of the Government, directed not only against the introduction of the opium, but in a far more remarkable manner against the consumers;"8"The Governor has lately incurred the severe displeasure of the court, upon the ground of the lax execution of the orders concerning the more effectual prevention of the traffic in opium," and adds, "a remarkable increase of activity has ensued.""The deliveries of opium have frequently been accompanied by conflict of fire arms between those vessels and the Government preventive craft,"7"That he had frequently been urged to dismiss the opium ships from the usual anchorage outside the port.""If the receiving ships are again brought, that the commercial intercourse shall assuredly be altogether interdicted, and on the resident foreigners of the said nation, the laws shall be executed capitally.""But that it (the opium trade) has gone to this length, is altogether attributable to the conduct of the great officers of the abovenamed province in times past; to their sloth and remissness, their fearfulness and timidity, their anxiety to show themselves liberal and indulgent, by which they have been led to neglect obedience to the prohibitory enactments, and to fail in the strict enforcement of the precautionary regulations;""That the laws are not wanting in severity, but there are those in office who, from want of energy, fail to carry them into execution.""That it is indispensably necessary to enact severe prohibitions against the use of opium.""The actual degree of rigorous prohibition," and stated "that for the last two months, the local Government has been keeping a system of severe restriction, with respect to this branch of the trade, which has been successful to a, great extent.""Imposed penalties on those who take the opium from the ship, on the officers who are negligent in keeping guard, on those who take fees to connive, and on those who melt (or prepare) opium, and threatens a, stoppage of the trade."65"Perhaps nothing could contribute more readily to the final reduction of the Chinese people to reasonable terms with foreigners than this steady and never ceasing impoverishment of the country, by the abstraction of the circulating medium."l.gubelle"If this state of things continues a few years longer, the price of silver will become so enhanced that it will be a question how the revenues collected can possibly be accounted for, or the gubellegabelle"That the land and capitation taxes, and the contributions for the supply of grain, are paid, for the most part, in all the provinces and districts in copper cash. When the sums collected are accounted for to government, these copper cash have to be exchanged for silver. The loss now experienced upon this exchange is so very heavy, that in consequence of it, the officers have everywhere to supply deficiencies in the revenue; whereas, formerly there was in general, an overplus. The salt merchants of the several provinces always sell the salt for copper coin, while they are invariably required to pay the gabelle4d.s3"And we do require you constantly to bear in mind and to impress, as occasion may offer, upon our subjects resident in, or resorting to China, the duty of conforming to the laws and usages of the Chinese empire."2Earl Stanhope
34333231302928 said, the noble Earl had commenced his speech by making two promises, one of which was, that he would discuss this matter with perfect coolness, calmness, and temper, and without any political or personal allusion whatever; the second, that he would occupy but a small portion of their Lordships' attention. He did not think the noble Earl had kept the first of these promises; he felt perfectly certain he had not adhered to the second. Yet, considering the great importance of the subject, the number and length of the documents to which it was necessary to refer, perhaps, the noble Earl had not taken up more of their Lordships' time than was requisite to elucidate and discuss the question. The noble Earl began by laying down the principle, that a foreigner was bound, at all times, not only to respect, but to pay much more implicit obedience to the laws of that country in which he resided than even to his own. This certainly was somewhat startling in sound; but unquestionably there was much truth in the observation, because a foreigner might by his acts affect the question of peace or war between the country in which he resided and his own—a responsibility which did not rest upon him while at home. It was, therefore, the moral duty of every individual residing in a foreign country, to pay deference, obedience and respect to its laws; but whether the high degree of morality was to be expected of those who were engaged in the pursuits of gain he must leave their Lordships to determine. There was another observation made by the noble Earl in the commencement of his speech, in which he entirely agreed.—it was not for us to inquire into the sincerity of the Chinese government, and whether they were really actuated by the high motives of morality they professed or by the apprehension of losing the circulating medium by an undue exportation of silver. The law of that country being known, it should be respected, and no country should encourage or abet in its subjects the violation of the laws of another. At the same time it was matter of question how far one country could enforce the prohibitory laws of another, and how far the Government of the one could prevent the violation particularly of the fiscal, revenue, and protective laws of the other. This introduced quite a new consideration, which went to the
34333231302928Viscount Melbourne
4342414039383736Hear.35 felt as strong objections as the noble Viscount did to the interference of the House in a question of this description. He should therefore propose to their Lordships to vote for the previous question. He desired to give no opinion as to the course which ought to be followed in negociating with China. He thought the House ought not to interfere and decide upon the present discussion that the Chinese government and the Chinese authorities were right, and that her Majesty's subjects and her Majesty's superintendent of trade upon the spot, and her Majesty's Government at home, were wrong. He said that that question was one on which he desired that the House should forbear giving any opinion. It was a question on which he was not himself prepared to give any opinion. He might be prepared with the knowledge which was to be gathered from the blue books and the documents which were before their Lordships, but he did not know the force, he did not know the means, he was ignorant of the resources which could be brought to bear in order to avenge the insult and injury which we had sustained, supposing an insult had been offered to her Majesty and an injury had been done to her Majesty's people. Therefore, he entreated their Lordships not to give any vote on this address, being determined himself, if he could not prevail upon their
4342414039383736Hear.35The Duke of Wellington
7372 was desirous, before their Lordships proceeded further, to occupy their time for a few moments while he pointed out the precise state of this question. He had no objection to the motion which the noble Lord had made for calling in counsel to be heard at the bar. But, although considering how often the principles and details of this bill had been before the House—considering how often that principle had been adopted by the House, without the petitioners having claimed or obtained permission to be heard at the bar—though under these circumstances, he himself thought that it would not be a hard measure towards the petitioners, if he opposed the calling in of counsel on this occasion, seeing that no such favour was accorded to them before—yet, looking to the importance which some noble Lords attached to the reports of commissioners respecting particular corporations and their particular conduct on certain points—he was not unwilling that an opportunity should be afforded to those corporations to repel and disprove, by evidence, if they could, any allegations affecting their private interests, which were to be found in the reports of those commissioners. But, when he re-
7372The Marquess of Lansdowne
 assented to the principle that the arguments of counsel should be directed against such wrong as the petitioners apprehended they would suffer under this measure, if carried into effect. He was willing, that counsel should be heard in the same manner, as counsel had been heard with respect to the English Corporation Bill.Lord Kenyon
 was of opinion, that the observations of the noble Marquess ought rather to have been made when her Majesty's Ministers gave their consent that counsel should be heard, than at this late moment, because it must be clear to every one, no understanding of the kind now called for, having been entered into, that counsel had prepared themselves to take an extensive view of the bill. Counsel had been engaged for different parties, some for the corporation of Dublin, others for other corporations, and he knew not how, when so many interests were affected, that counsel could refrain from touching on the principle of the bill. He, therefore, could not agree to any such clouded and unsatisfactory understanding.The Marquess of Westmeath
 was of opinion, that the understanding which prevailed in the case of the English Corporation Bill should be implicitly adhered to on this occasion. The more correct course, however, would perhaps be to instruct counsel as to the course they should take when they appeared at the bar. This would prevent the possibility of their having a debate in the middle of counsel's speech as to the admissibility of the line of argument he might be taking.Lord Ellenborough
118 presented a a petition from certain inhabitants of Bath, complaining that measures were not taken to punish sedition in Ireland as it was punished in this country. The petitioners stated, that on the 10th day of April last, a society was formed in Dublin for the avowed purpose of repealing the union between the two countries, in which association seditious and inflammatory language was used by Mr. D. O'Connell and other persons, of which no notice had been taken. The petitioners were of opinion that it was alike contrary to justice and humanity to prosecute and punish poor labourers for sedition, while Mr. D. O'Connell and his friends were allowed, without molestation, to use the most inflammatory language. They could not conceive why sedition should be connived at, if not encouraged, by the government in Ireland, while it was prosecuted and punished in England. They, therefore, prayed their Lordships to address her Majesty that she would be graciously pleased to command the Attorney-general to issue proceedings against all such offenders, of whatsoever
118The Marquess of Westmeath
 complained that the papers relative to the proceedings of the Poor-law Commissioners in Ireland, which had been laid on the table, were not satisfactory. He wished that the correspondence relative to the appointment of surgeon Phelan should be produced.The Earl of Glengall
 did not believe that there was any correspondence on the subject, but he would make inquiry.The Marquess of Normanby
nil. said, he would make inquiry with respect to any correspondence that might have occurred, but he feared that the return would be nil.The Marquess of Normanby
l.l.119 said, that yesterday a collection of papers had been laid on the table relative to the valuation of property in reference to the Irish poor-law. In the 33rd paragraph of the instructions to those who were to estimate the annual value of premises, it was set forth "that it is desirable that the amount should not include fractions of a pound, unless where the value of the premises is very low." Now
l.l.119Lord Ellenborough
 thought it most important that the bill now before the other House of Parliament for the abolition of the grand jury cess in several great towns of Ireland should come before their Lordships before they went into Committee upon the present bill.The Earl of Glengall
 could not suffer the House to adjourn without expressing his gratification that the bill was not to be hastily proceeded with, for he felt confident that the continuance or the dissolution of the connexion of Great Britain and Ireland depended upon their Lordships' considering and discussing the provisions of this important measure in a cool, calm, and deliberate manner.The Marquess of Westmeath
120 would on Friday
120Viscount Melbourne
 said, then he should propose next Friday for going into Committee, by which time the other bill would be before the House.Viscount Melbourne
 wished to ask whether there were any objection to the House then going into Committee upon the bill?Viscount Melbourne
 said, he had the strongest objection. He could not consent to go into Committee without a discussion in a full House, nor till he saw what was meant to be done upon the subject of another measure, which might be considered as part of this bill, and which was not yet before their Lordships. He told the noble Viscount that he could not consent to go into Committee until this other measure was before the House, and it was really known what the intention of her Majesty's Government was upon the subject.The Duke of Wellington
 said, that looking to the extensive powers which the board possessed, it was right that all correspondence connected with the appointment of officers should be produced, for the purpose of enabling their Lordships to trace such appointments to their origin. If, however, there was no correspondence, a return of names and offices should at least be made.The Duke of Wellington
 wished to make some observations with respect to the present unsatisfactory state of Ireland. Previous to Easter, he had asked whether any measures were about to be taken, to put a stop to the system of outrage which prevailed, to a very great extent in Ireland. Nothing, however, appeared to have been done, and the country was as much disturbed as ever. Recently, Mr. West had been murdered, and he wished to inquire, whether the Irish Government had, previously to that event, received any information that such a crime was contemplated? He also wished to know, whether Government was prepared to enforce the Registration of Arms Act, and to direct that a strict search should be made for arms?The Earl of Glengall
 had not the slightest hesitation in saying, that the Government had received no information whatever of the intention to murder Mr. West, nor heard of the murder until the lamentable event had occurred. With respect to the other question, he was in communication with his noble Friend at the head of the Government of Ireland, who was at this moment prepared to make a most rigorous search for arms in the disturbed districts. His noble Friend was not, however, prepared to press for any additional measure on the subject at present.The Marquess of Normanby
243 said, the noble Earl had directed an accusation against the Irish Government, and against the distinguished officer, Colonel Macgregor, who was at the head of the police force in Ireland. The noble Earl had stated that the force was paralyzed in the performance of its duty by the hope of obtaining rewards, not for doing that duty, but for shrinking from it. Now, when the noble Earl said this, he (the Marquess of Normanby) contended that the responsibility lay on the noble Earl to prove his charge, if he could, and it was not for him to ask for a committee before which he might disprove it. If the noble Earl brought any proof before him that a policeman refused to act upon the warrant of a local magistrate, then he would say, not the whole police force was paralyzed,
243The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that notwithstanding the triumphant tone which the noble Marquess who had just sat down had assumed, the House would remember that the charge which his noble Friend had made, was not that the police did not do their duty, but that they were paralyzed by the orders and directions issued by the Executive Government in Ireland. He intended to move for copies of the orders and directions given by the Government to the police in Ireland, and it would then be seen that the assertion made by his noble Friend—namely, that the local magistracy had been put aside, was quite correct. The charge, therefore, was against the Government, and not against the police. Why, the noble Marquess was not aware that the Arms Act would expire at the end of this Session, and yet he had stated, that there was no intention on the part of the Government to introduce a measure to renew that act.The Marquess of Westmeath
.—No, I did not. I stated, that I thought the Arms Act would not expire until the end of next Session. I have sent out to inquire, and I find it will expire at the end of the present Session. I also stated that there was no intention to leave Ireland without the protection of the Arms Act.The Marquess of Normanby
 had understood the noble Marquess, on a former occasion, distinctly to say, that there was no intention on the part of the noble Lord at the head of the Government in Ireland to recommend any measure in relation to the Arms Act.The Marquess of Westmeath
.—I stated that my noble Friend, at that moment, was not prepared to recommend any alteration in the Arms Act.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, it was a dereliction on the part of the Government, that a measure (admitted by the noble Marquess to be necessary) to renew the Arms Act had not been introduced before the present—he might say advanced —state of the Session. It would seem that Ireland would have been left without the Arms Act but for the question which had been put by his noble Friend, and the inquiry on the part of the noble Marquess to which that question had led.The Marquess of Westmeath
 wished to understand clearly, whether it was the intention of the Government to bring in a bill to enable magistrates to make a search for arms hereafter, which could not be done if the supposition were correct that the present act was about to expire?The Earl of Wicklow
242 said, it was not the intention of the Government of Ireland to leave that country without an Arms Act. But he believed that his noble Friend was misinformed as to the expiration of the Act, which he thought would not take place till the Session after this. He was very glad that he had given way to the noble Earl (Devon), and he could not but contrast the manner in which he had spoken with the tone and temper which the noble Earl opposite had evinced in making his observations. The noble Earl (Charleville) had taken upon himself on this occasion, relying on rumours which had been conveyed to him, and which he believed to be exaggerated, to throw out a most unfounded imputation against his noble Friend who was at the head of the Government of Ireland, and which he was sure his noble Friend would, at the proper time, triumphantly refute. The noble Earl
242The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that to several of the gaol and iron gangs, perhaps to all, some spiritual instruction was offered, but that it was given most inefficiently—namely, by employing in this office only three clergymen, who had other and populous charges. None of them had a chaplain.The Bishop of Exeter
246 said, he had a petition to present from certain Protestant Dissenters resident at Ipswich, in the diocese of Norwich, on the
246The Bishop of Norwich
 said, he had heard the speech of the right rev. Prelate with great pleasure, and he apprehended that not one of their Lordships would disagree from the right rev. Prelate in repudiating any attempt to cast upon Dissenters charges for illegal luxuries, or in any way exceeding the legal objects for which Church-rates were imposed. He rejoiced that the Dissenters in the neighbourhood of Ipswich had placed this petition in the hands of the right rev. Prelate, and that he had done himself and them so much justice.The Bishop of Exeter
*296295***294293***292Papers relative to Transportation† The Catholic chaplain, the Rev. Mr. Ullathorne, corroborated by other authorities, represents that the convicts are driven to despair; that they have been known to commit murder for the sake of ridding themselves of life; and according to the expression used by one of the convicts himself, "When a man come to this island he loses the heart of a man, and gets the heart of a beast."—Papers relative to Transportation**Omne ignotum pro mirifico*291290Papers relative to Transportation, &c."In order to carry the new system fully into effect, the superintendence of it should be entrusted to an officer, on whose qualifications for the duty the best reliance can be placed; he should feel a deep interest in the moral improvement of the convicts, and be disposed to devote his whole energies to this important object. The opposite faults of over severity and over indulgence should be carefully avoided, as alike destructive of any good effect on the prisoners'"—Papers relative to Transportation, &c."In order fully to carry these regulations into effect, it is desirable that, as far as possible, Norfolk Island should be appropriated to convicts from the United Kingdom, and that persons convicted of offences in New South Wales should be confined in some other part of the colony, or employed on the roads."No prisoner is to be detained in Norfolk Island longer than fifteen years."3d. That when allowed to leave Norfolk Island, he should not be assigned to any individual in Australia, but should enjoy advantages at least equal to those of a ticket of leave.character of the prisoner, the nature of his crime, and his conduct during his punishment.289"2d. That the actual period of imprisonment should be liable to a subsequent abridgment, according to the previous"1st. That a fixed period of imprisonment should, in the first instance, be allotted for the punishment of the crime of which the prisoner has been convicted.The general principles which are to guide the future management of transported convicts are,—"A small increase in the military guard will probably be required, which you will send from the troops now stationed in New South Wales."The convicts themselves may be advantageously employed in making this temporary accommodation." In my predecessor's circular despatch, of the 21st of October, 1837, he transmitted to you a volume, containing extracts from the second report of the inspectors of prisons in this country, containing plans of prisons; and I now transmit to you a subsequent volume on the same subject, which will afford you the requisite information on this subject. In the mean time you will consider yourself authorized to incur such expenses as may be necessary for the temporary accommodation of an increased number of convicts in that island; and of those who shall arrive in New South Wales from this country in the course of the present year, you will send as large a portion to Norfolk Island as you think can be properly received there.***288l,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.287**286***285Report of Commission of Inquiry into the State of the Poor in Ireland.*Report of Commission of Inquiry into the State of the Poor in Ireland.**284283***282***Than fables yet have feigned, or fear conceiv'd."Perverse, all-monstrous, all-prodigious things, Abominable, unutterable, and worseWhere all life dies, death lives, and nature breedsCreated evil, for evil only good:"By curse281Second Letter to Earl Grey,"At one time we find the situation of the convict painted in the most favourable colours, as one of considerable present comfort, and full of cheering confidence of speedy and complete restoration (on the supposition of tolerably good conduct) to a respectable place in society, with such advantages in respect of worldly prosperity, as the individual could not elsewhere have hoped. This is to shew the utility of the system as a mode of reformation. Then, to shew its utility as a mode of deterring from crime by terror, the picture is reversed, and the same convict is represented as undergoing the most galling and degrading slavery—as suffering the most unmitigated misery, and branded with the most indelible disgrace."—Second Letter to Earl Grey,ment assertions can support any thing; and then the advocates seem to calculate on the reader's not only being perfectly satisfied with what is said, but immediately afterwards forgetting the whole of it; so as to be prepared to receive from the same pen representations the most opposite to the foregoing, calculated to meet some different objection."280**Papers Relalative to Transportation, &cnot only to the wretched beings themselves, but the colony of New South Wales at large, are dreadful to contemplate."—Papers Relalative to Transportation, &c*279278277***"So long," says a witness*276**Qui semel verecundiœ fines transierit, eum oportet bene et gnaviter esse impudentem."of annoyance!" Perhaps there may be in the term "wild dogs," some hidden meaning according to which the description may be nearly true; but in the literal sense, it does seem (in the face of such evidence as is before the public), one of the boldest assertions that ever was hazarded. Well did Cicero remark, "Qui semel verecundiœ fines transierit, eum oportet bene et gnaviter esse impudentem."*275† One of these tracts printed at Exeter, and industriously circulated by an emigration-agent there, after mentioning several other colonies, all of which are greatly disparaged in comparison of New South Wales, proceeds to describe this last in glowing colours, not only in respect of soil and climate, but in all that pertains to its literary, moral, and religious character, and its "manners and customs," which are, it is remarked, "the same as in England;" and then sums up a most alluring description by adding (what certainly is more than could be said with truth of England) that "the wild dogs are the only source***274273"Miraturque novas frondes, et non sua poma."272† Report, pp. 43, 44.***271Second Letter to Earl Grey*Second Letter to Earl Grey*ex-parte*270269**they were in the habit of remaining for days together in a state of intoxication. On recovering their senses, the farmers found themselves charged sums exceeding their means of payment. Thus they fell into the power of their host, and were obliged to return to his house, from time to time, till the debts became such as to enable him to dispossess them of their estates, and he had thus actually become the proprietor of a great portion of the cultivated land of the colony. In this sort of way, it appears that not only the emancipist referred to, but many others, have acquired great wealth,*268l*l*to show how truly Sir F. Forbes characterised the state of society.*267† The moral state of society in the penal colonies is described by the Transportation Committee under the fourth head of their inquiry. See Report, pages 23 to 33. See also Evidence of Mr. John Russell, vol. ii. p. 49–62. of John Barnes, esq. vol. ii. p. 46–49; of Dr. Ullathorne, vol. ii. p. 14–24, &c. Also Captain Mackonochie's separate Report on Van Dieman's Land, and Mr. Justice Burton's Charge, Appendix to Transp. Report, vol. i. p. 289. These witnesses, without citing more, will be found fully sufficient***266in terroremsufficiently obvious. The punishment is not visible in this colony, and therefore does not operate very powerfully in terrorem265† The evidence taken by the Committee fully establishes the fact that the dread of Norfolk Island has not deterred from crime,—that many have returned there very shortly after discharge,—that it has had no reformatory effect, but has operated rather as the reverse of a preventive of crime. See Examinations of Dr. Ullathorne, Rept. vol. ii. p. 14; Major Wright, do. p. 130; the Right Rev. Dr. Polding, Rept. vol. ii. App. p. 266, and the Rev. H. T. Stiles, do. p. 267. The last-mentioned witness thus sums up his opinion;—"The effect, then, of banishment to Norfolk Island, as a preventive of crime in this colony, I conceive to be of the least assignable value possible. One reason why these effects are no greater than they are isDe Beaumont & De Tocqueville, Du Systême Pénitentiaire aux Etats-Unis, &c., Appendix: Des Colonies Pénales,Some French writers, however, there are, who, having made the needful inquiries, have perceived and exposed the erroneousness of the system of penal colonies. See, for instance, De Beaumont & De Tocqueville, Du Systême Pénitentiaire aux Etats-Unis, &c., Appendix: Des Colonies Pénales,***264je me rangestrong; where, for two, three, or five pounds, or the means of two or three days drunkenness, volunteers are found for forlorn hopes and narrow chances of escape; where, for thirty or thirty-six shillings a week wages, or ten or fifteen shillings extra to spend in drink, men will undertake such deleterious manufacturing processes as those of the Sheffield knife-grinders, with the certainty of death of a painful kind before they are thirty-six, or within a very few years—amidst such a population, where, from the absence of preventive measures, a man who can get only eighteen or twenty shillings a week by severe labour, rising early and toiling late and monotonously, may as a thief get double the sum, and enjoy a career of four or five years in towns, and probably double that extent of career and profit in the country, (as might be shown by reference to the first portions of the evidence in the Constabulary Force Report, par, 4, 6, 10, 11,) it appears to me hopeless to expect that any considerable effect is to be obtained by any probable refinement of punishment. 'You have been punished repeatedly, and in various forms; is there no hopes of your reformation?' said an acquaintance of mine in France to a thief who was about to quit a prison. 'Look you,' said the thief; 'I am by trade a tailor. As a tailor I earn three francs a day. As a thief, I keep myself within the bounds of moderation (je me range263***262261et seq.*et seq.**260† Report, vol. ii. Appendix, p, 302.**"Under a reformed system of secondary punishment (supposing transportation abolished) it strikes me as desirable, with a view to the preservation from a return to evil courses of persons released from penitentiaries, &c., after the expiry of their punishment, that such as may have indicated a disposition to reform, should be, at their own desire, furnished with means of emigrating to various colonies, British or foreign, in which they may mix, not with such men as their old associates in crime, but with respectable persons, unacquainted with their past history, and may thus be enabled, as the phrase is, to 'turn over a new leaf.' This of course implies, that they should not emigrate in a body to any one place, and as a distinct class. For juvenile offenders, the same course would perhaps be even still more suitable. The colonies which should be specially excluded, should be (at least for fifty years to come) New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land; evidently the most unfit places in the world for a half-reclaimed offender. We have surely made trial long enough of that system of moral homoeopathy, which seeks to cure a man of vice by putting him in the way of acquiring fresh vice. Surely a physician would be reckoned insane who should send a patient convalescent from ague, and in danger of relapse, into the Lincolnshire fens for the complete re-establishment of his health."†*259***258"it hath been proved already that you are no better than stark knaves; and it will go near to be thought so shortly."257vis inertiœ*vis inertiœ**256† Report, vol. ii. Appendix, p. 229.***London Review,unlikelyus255Official Note, transmitted by S. M, Phillipps, Esq., to Sir G. Grey, Bart.,Papers relative to Transportation, &c. Session,The question of colonial profit and loss mixes with the award of justice, A man is estimated by his capacity as a colonist, not by his crime as a felon. A clever servant is employed as a steward or butler, regardless of the fact that he has been guilty of embezzlement. At the same time a boy who has stolen a fowl from a farm yard may be subjected to cruel servitude in a remote settlement. The servitude or slavery which is comprehended under the word 'assignment,' varies and must vary as slavery does, according to the temper and character of the master to whom the convict is assigned. The worst criminal may have the best master, and the most repentant may be driven into fresh offences by the oppression of which he is the victim, and the profligacy of which he is the witness."—Official Note, transmitted by S. M, Phillipps, Esq., to Sir G. Grey, Bart.,Papers relative to Transportation, &c. Session,noneSuch254**First Letter to Earl GreyMacclane****might in these points be bettered, by their being placed upon an equality with convicts!" First Letter to Earl GreyMacclane****not*253† "I question much, however," (says Mr. Cunningham,) whether many English labourers live better than our convict servant here, whose weekly ration consists of a sufficiency of flour to make four quartern loaves at least; of seven pounds of beef; two ounces of tea, one pound of sugar, and two ounces of tobacco, with the occasional substitution of two or three quarts of milk daily for the tea and sugar allowance. Numbers of the English working poor would doubtless be happy to bargain for such a diet and thus their situation**"Let men make that profit of being in the wilderness that they have God always and his service before eyes!"*people with whom you plant; and not only so, but it spoileth the plantation; for they will ever live like rogues and not fall to work, but be lazy and do mischief and spend victuals, and be quickly weary, and then certify over to their country to the discredit of the plantation."*252Brown's Life of Howard,*Brown's Life of Howard,*"It is," said that great man, "a shameful and unblessed thing to take the scum of people and wicked condemned men to be the*251***250249248247*** spoke to the following effect*296295***294293***292Papers relative to Transportation† The Catholic chaplain, the Rev. Mr. Ullathorne, corroborated by other authorities, represents that the convicts are driven to despair; that they have been known to commit murder for the sake of ridding themselves of life; and according to the expression used by one of the convicts himself, "When a man come to this island he loses the heart of a man, and gets the heart of a beast."—Papers relative to Transportation**Omne ignotum pro mirifico*291290Papers relative to Transportation, &c."In order to carry the new system fully into effect, the superintendence of it should be entrusted to an officer, on whose qualifications for the duty the best reliance can be placed; he should feel a deep interest in the moral improvement of the convicts, and be disposed to devote his whole energies to this important object. The opposite faults of over severity and over indulgence should be carefully avoided, as alike destructive of any good effect on the prisoners'"—Papers relative to Transportation, &c."In order fully to carry these regulations into effect, it is desirable that, as far as possible, Norfolk Island should be appropriated to convicts from the United Kingdom, and that persons convicted of offences in New South Wales should be confined in some other part of the colony, or employed on the roads."No prisoner is to be detained in Norfolk Island longer than fifteen years."3d. That when allowed to leave Norfolk Island, he should not be assigned to any individual in Australia, but should enjoy advantages at least equal to those of a ticket of leave.character of the prisoner, the nature of his crime, and his conduct during his punishment.289"2d. That the actual period of imprisonment should be liable to a subsequent abridgment, according to the previous"1st. That a fixed period of imprisonment should, in the first instance, be allotted for the punishment of the crime of which the prisoner has been convicted.The general principles which are to guide the future management of transported convicts are,—"A small increase in the military guard will probably be required, which you will send from the troops now stationed in New South Wales."The convicts themselves may be advantageously employed in making this temporary accommodation." In my predecessor's circular despatch, of the 21st of October, 1837, he transmitted to you a volume, containing extracts from the second report of the inspectors of prisons in this country, containing plans of prisons; and I now transmit to you a subsequent volume on the same subject, which will afford you the requisite information on this subject. In the mean time you will consider yourself authorized to incur such expenses as may be necessary for the temporary accommodation of an increased number of convicts in that island; and of those who shall arrive in New South Wales from this country in the course of the present year, you will send as large a portion to Norfolk Island as you think can be properly received there.***288l,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.287**286***285Report of Commission of Inquiry into the State of the Poor in Ireland.*Report of Commission of Inquiry into the State of the Poor in Ireland.**284283***282***Than fables yet have feigned, or fear conceiv'd."Perverse, all-monstrous, all-prodigious things, Abominable, unutterable, and worseWhere all life dies, death lives, and nature breedsCreated evil, for evil only good:"By curse281Second Letter to Earl Grey,"At one time we find the situation of the convict painted in the most favourable colours, as one of considerable present comfort, and full of cheering confidence of speedy and complete restoration (on the supposition of tolerably good conduct) to a respectable place in society, with such advantages in respect of worldly prosperity, as the individual could not elsewhere have hoped. This is to shew the utility of the system as a mode of reformation. Then, to shew its utility as a mode of deterring from crime by terror, the picture is reversed, and the same convict is represented as undergoing the most galling and degrading slavery—as suffering the most unmitigated misery, and branded with the most indelible disgrace."—Second Letter to Earl Grey,ment assertions can support any thing; and then the advocates seem to calculate on the reader's not only being perfectly satisfied with what is said, but immediately afterwards forgetting the whole of it; so as to be prepared to receive from the same pen representations the most opposite to the foregoing, calculated to meet some different objection."280**Papers Relalative to Transportation, &cnot only to the wretched beings themselves, but the colony of New South Wales at large, are dreadful to contemplate."—Papers Relalative to Transportation, &c*279278277***"So long," says a witness*276**Qui semel verecundiœ fines transierit, eum oportet bene et gnaviter esse impudentem."of annoyance!" Perhaps there may be in the term "wild dogs," some hidden meaning according to which the description may be nearly true; but in the literal sense, it does seem (in the face of such evidence as is before the public), one of the boldest assertions that ever was hazarded. Well did Cicero remark, "Qui semel verecundiœ fines transierit, eum oportet bene et gnaviter esse impudentem."*275† One of these tracts printed at Exeter, and industriously circulated by an emigration-agent there, after mentioning several other colonies, all of which are greatly disparaged in comparison of New South Wales, proceeds to describe this last in glowing colours, not only in respect of soil and climate, but in all that pertains to its literary, moral, and religious character, and its "manners and customs," which are, it is remarked, "the same as in England;" and then sums up a most alluring description by adding (what certainly is more than could be said with truth of England) that "the wild dogs are the only source***274273"Miraturque novas frondes, et non sua poma."272† Report, pp. 43, 44.***271Second Letter to Earl Grey*Second Letter to Earl Grey*ex-parte*270269**they were in the habit of remaining for days together in a state of intoxication. On recovering their senses, the farmers found themselves charged sums exceeding their means of payment. Thus they fell into the power of their host, and were obliged to return to his house, from time to time, till the debts became such as to enable him to dispossess them of their estates, and he had thus actually become the proprietor of a great portion of the cultivated land of the colony. In this sort of way, it appears that not only the emancipist referred to, but many others, have acquired great wealth,*268l*l*to show how truly Sir F. Forbes characterised the state of society.*267† The moral state of society in the penal colonies is described by the Transportation Committee under the fourth head of their inquiry. See Report, pages 23 to 33. See also Evidence of Mr. John Russell, vol. ii. p. 49–62. of John Barnes, esq. vol. ii. p. 46–49; of Dr. Ullathorne, vol. ii. p. 14–24, &c. Also Captain Mackonochie's separate Report on Van Dieman's Land, and Mr. Justice Burton's Charge, Appendix to Transp. Report, vol. i. p. 289. These witnesses, without citing more, will be found fully sufficient***266in terroremsufficiently obvious. The punishment is not visible in this colony, and therefore does not operate very powerfully in terrorem265† The evidence taken by the Committee fully establishes the fact that the dread of Norfolk Island has not deterred from crime,—that many have returned there very shortly after discharge,—that it has had no reformatory effect, but has operated rather as the reverse of a preventive of crime. See Examinations of Dr. Ullathorne, Rept. vol. ii. p. 14; Major Wright, do. p. 130; the Right Rev. Dr. Polding, Rept. vol. ii. App. p. 266, and the Rev. H. T. Stiles, do. p. 267. The last-mentioned witness thus sums up his opinion;—"The effect, then, of banishment to Norfolk Island, as a preventive of crime in this colony, I conceive to be of the least assignable value possible. One reason why these effects are no greater than they are isDe Beaumont & De Tocqueville, Du Systême Pénitentiaire aux Etats-Unis, &c., Appendix: Des Colonies Pénales,Some French writers, however, there are, who, having made the needful inquiries, have perceived and exposed the erroneousness of the system of penal colonies. See, for instance, De Beaumont & De Tocqueville, Du Systême Pénitentiaire aux Etats-Unis, &c., Appendix: Des Colonies Pénales,***264je me rangestrong; where, for two, three, or five pounds, or the means of two or three days drunkenness, volunteers are found for forlorn hopes and narrow chances of escape; where, for thirty or thirty-six shillings a week wages, or ten or fifteen shillings extra to spend in drink, men will undertake such deleterious manufacturing processes as those of the Sheffield knife-grinders, with the certainty of death of a painful kind before they are thirty-six, or within a very few years—amidst such a population, where, from the absence of preventive measures, a man who can get only eighteen or twenty shillings a week by severe labour, rising early and toiling late and monotonously, may as a thief get double the sum, and enjoy a career of four or five years in towns, and probably double that extent of career and profit in the country, (as might be shown by reference to the first portions of the evidence in the Constabulary Force Report, par, 4, 6, 10, 11,) it appears to me hopeless to expect that any considerable effect is to be obtained by any probable refinement of punishment. 'You have been punished repeatedly, and in various forms; is there no hopes of your reformation?' said an acquaintance of mine in France to a thief who was about to quit a prison. 'Look you,' said the thief; 'I am by trade a tailor. As a tailor I earn three francs a day. As a thief, I keep myself within the bounds of moderation (je me range263***262261et seq.*et seq.**260† Report, vol. ii. Appendix, p, 302.**"Under a reformed system of secondary punishment (supposing transportation abolished) it strikes me as desirable, with a view to the preservation from a return to evil courses of persons released from penitentiaries, &c., after the expiry of their punishment, that such as may have indicated a disposition to reform, should be, at their own desire, furnished with means of emigrating to various colonies, British or foreign, in which they may mix, not with such men as their old associates in crime, but with respectable persons, unacquainted with their past history, and may thus be enabled, as the phrase is, to 'turn over a new leaf.' This of course implies, that they should not emigrate in a body to any one place, and as a distinct class. For juvenile offenders, the same course would perhaps be even still more suitable. The colonies which should be specially excluded, should be (at least for fifty years to come) New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land; evidently the most unfit places in the world for a half-reclaimed offender. We have surely made trial long enough of that system of moral homoeopathy, which seeks to cure a man of vice by putting him in the way of acquiring fresh vice. Surely a physician would be reckoned insane who should send a patient convalescent from ague, and in danger of relapse, into the Lincolnshire fens for the complete re-establishment of his health."†*259***258"it hath been proved already that you are no better than stark knaves; and it will go near to be thought so shortly."257vis inertiœ*vis inertiœ**256† Report, vol. ii. Appendix, p. 229.***London Review,unlikelyus255Official Note, transmitted by S. M, Phillipps, Esq., to Sir G. Grey, Bart.,Papers relative to Transportation, &c. Session,The question of colonial profit and loss mixes with the award of justice, A man is estimated by his capacity as a colonist, not by his crime as a felon. A clever servant is employed as a steward or butler, regardless of the fact that he has been guilty of embezzlement. At the same time a boy who has stolen a fowl from a farm yard may be subjected to cruel servitude in a remote settlement. The servitude or slavery which is comprehended under the word 'assignment,' varies and must vary as slavery does, according to the temper and character of the master to whom the convict is assigned. The worst criminal may have the best master, and the most repentant may be driven into fresh offences by the oppression of which he is the victim, and the profligacy of which he is the witness."—Official Note, transmitted by S. M, Phillipps, Esq., to Sir G. Grey, Bart.,Papers relative to Transportation, &c. Session,noneSuch254**First Letter to Earl GreyMacclane****might in these points be bettered, by their being placed upon an equality with convicts!" First Letter to Earl GreyMacclane****not*253† "I question much, however," (says Mr. Cunningham,) whether many English labourers live better than our convict servant here, whose weekly ration consists of a sufficiency of flour to make four quartern loaves at least; of seven pounds of beef; two ounces of tea, one pound of sugar, and two ounces of tobacco, with the occasional substitution of two or three quarts of milk daily for the tea and sugar allowance. Numbers of the English working poor would doubtless be happy to bargain for such a diet and thus their situation**"Let men make that profit of being in the wilderness that they have God always and his service before eyes!"*people with whom you plant; and not only so, but it spoileth the plantation; for they will ever live like rogues and not fall to work, but be lazy and do mischief and spend victuals, and be quickly weary, and then certify over to their country to the discredit of the plantation."*252Brown's Life of Howard,*Brown's Life of Howard,*"It is," said that great man, "a shameful and unblessed thing to take the scum of people and wicked condemned men to be the*251***250249248247***The Archbishop of Dublin
** observed, that
**The Marquess of Normanby
l.ll.307"Lord Goderich is of opinion that it would
307"Resolved, that in the opinion of this council, the great extension which has latterly been afforded of moral and religious instruction, the classification which may in future be made in the numerous gaols now in progress of erection upon the most approved principles of inspection and separation, the more effectual punishment and classification of offenders in ironed gangs, according to their improved system of management, the numerous free emigrants now eligible as the assignees of convicts, and the accumulated experience of half a century, form a combination of circumstances which renders the colony better adapted at the present than at any former period to carry into effect the praiseworthy intentions of the first founders of the system of transportation and assignment, which had no less for its object reformation of character than a just infliction of punishment. Resolved. That in the opinion of this council, no system of penal discipline or secondary punishment will be found, at once so cheap, so effective, and so reformatory, as that of well regulated assignment, the good conduct of the convict, and his continuance at labour being so obviously the interest of the assignee, whilst the partial solitude and privations incidental to a pastoral or agricultural life in the remote districts of the colony (which may be made the universal employment of convicts), by effectually breaking a connection with companions and habits of vice, is better calculated than any other system to produce moral reformation, when accompanied by adequate religious instruction."306305"This spirit (regard for the interest of religion) is not confined to a single district, but I have found it pervading all which I have visited with a degree of unanimity as remarkable as it is gratifying. The circumstance of so many churches being at one and the same time in progress in such distant parts of the colony is unparalleled, so far as my observation extends, in any country containing a tenfold population; and the amount of subscriptions raised in every such instance, without reserve or difficulty, proves how becoming a sense is generally entertained by the settlers of their duty to make a liberal offering to the service of God in acknowledgment of the bounties He has bestowed upon them. In addition to this I cannot forbear to observe, that having held confirmations in every part of the colony which I have visited, where a becoming place for the celebration of that rite could be provided, the attendance, with perhaps one single exception, has been numerous and gratifying beyond my expectation. The appearance and demeanour of the young persons who have come forward on these occasions—their unaffected seriousness, their evident marks of attachment to the Church and its ordinances, and the piety with which they have pledged themselves to fulfil the solemn engagement which they undertook in my presence, have filled with satisfaction and hope, not my heart alone, but the breasts of all who truly desire the welfare of this colony, and whose persuasion is, that it can be secured only through the establishment of true holiness and righteousness among its inhabitants."304303l.l.302301 considered the most rev. Prelate entitled to the thanks of Parliament, for bringing this subject under the attention of their Lordships. There was no one subject he knew of, on which the energies of that great mind could have been more worthily employed, than in tracing the moral evils of transportation, and endeavouring to provide for them an effectual remedy. Yet the most rev. Prelate must forgive him, if he said, that with all gratitude for his services in this matter, there was one important circumstance he desiderated. The most rev. Prelate, in addressing himself to the evils of transportation in general, confined his views almost entirely to the effects it had produced in the colony of New South Wales. He seemed to suppose that transportation could only be conducted as it had been by this country since 1787. That, he must frankly say, was not so extensive a
l.ll.307"Lord Goderich is of opinion that it would
307"Resolved, that in the opinion of this council, the great extension which has latterly been afforded of moral and religious instruction, the classification which may in future be made in the numerous gaols now in progress of erection upon the most approved principles of inspection and separation, the more effectual punishment and classification of offenders in ironed gangs, according to their improved system of management, the numerous free emigrants now eligible as the assignees of convicts, and the accumulated experience of half a century, form a combination of circumstances which renders the colony better adapted at the present than at any former period to carry into effect the praiseworthy intentions of the first founders of the system of transportation and assignment, which had no less for its object reformation of character than a just infliction of punishment. Resolved. That in the opinion of this council, no system of penal discipline or secondary punishment will be found, at once so cheap, so effective, and so reformatory, as that of well regulated assignment, the good conduct of the convict, and his continuance at labour being so obviously the interest of the assignee, whilst the partial solitude and privations incidental to a pastoral or agricultural life in the remote districts of the colony (which may be made the universal employment of convicts), by effectually breaking a connection with companions and habits of vice, is better calculated than any other system to produce moral reformation, when accompanied by adequate religious instruction."306305"This spirit (regard for the interest of religion) is not confined to a single district, but I have found it pervading all which I have visited with a degree of unanimity as remarkable as it is gratifying. The circumstance of so many churches being at one and the same time in progress in such distant parts of the colony is unparalleled, so far as my observation extends, in any country containing a tenfold population; and the amount of subscriptions raised in every such instance, without reserve or difficulty, proves how becoming a sense is generally entertained by the settlers of their duty to make a liberal offering to the service of God in acknowledgment of the bounties He has bestowed upon them. In addition to this I cannot forbear to observe, that having held confirmations in every part of the colony which I have visited, where a becoming place for the celebration of that rite could be provided, the attendance, with perhaps one single exception, has been numerous and gratifying beyond my expectation. The appearance and demeanour of the young persons who have come forward on these occasions—their unaffected seriousness, their evident marks of attachment to the Church and its ordinances, and the piety with which they have pledged themselves to fulfil the solemn engagement which they undertook in my presence, have filled with satisfaction and hope, not my heart alone, but the breasts of all who truly desire the welfare of this colony, and whose persuasion is, that it can be secured only through the establishment of true holiness and righteousness among its inhabitants."304303l.l.302301The Bishop of Exeter
310l.l.l.309l.l.308 said, this was a subject of great importance, and one, the difficulties of which were much increased by the contariety of opinions that had been expressed upon it. After having perused, with all the attention he was able to give to it, the evidence that was taken be-
310l.l.l.309l.l.308The Earl of Wicklow
 explained. It was very far from the opinion he had expressed that transportation to New South Wales should go on. He distinctly avoided giving that opinion, but he certainly had not expressed a contrary opinion: for, surrounded as the question was with difficulties, he was not yet competent to form an opinion. What he said, was, that in his opinion, there might be a better system of transportation adopted, which might accompany or be subsidiary to colonization.The Bishop of Exeter
311 said, he must express his satisfaction and gratitude to the most rev. Prelate for having brought this most important, and he might say,
311The Bishop of Norwich
314313312 said, that
314313312The Marquess of Lansdowne
 said, with regard to the objection raised to these desultory discussions without notice, that he had understood the noble Earl who had commenced the present conversation (the Earl of Glengall) to have intimated on a former occasion his intention to renew the inquiry he then made. With regard to the other observations of the noble Lord who had just spoken, he found it reported, that at the meeting in question Mr. Rhodes, a magistrate and a close observer of the state of the county for thirty-five years, had said, that he never knew it to be in so bad a state. Another Gentleman declared, that the cause of the outrages which had been perpetrated was the want of the co-operation of the police with the local magistracy. One of the resolutions passed was to the effect, that "the meeting viewed with deep concern the increased and increasing disturbed state of the district, and pledged itself to use its exertions to put down the insubordination now so widely extended." Let it also be remembered, that this was the second meeting of the magistrates held within three weeks in consequence of the disturbed state of the district. How, then, could it be said, that his statements had been made on vague rumour, or that the county was in a perfect state of tranquillity.The Earl of Charleville
 said, that if the noble Marquess would move for a committee to investigate the facts, he would second the motion. The noble Marquess would find, that 200 men had met in arms in a place between three police stations, and that the police must have heard the shots that were fired, although they did not disturb the parties. He could produce evidence that the police did not properly do their duty. He could show that the police were paralyzed in obeying the orders of the local magistrates, and was prevented from fully doing their duty. Why, even in a case of murder, a policeman, with a warrant in his hand, could not act upon it without first applying to his superior officer.The Earl of Charleville
244 begged, in answer to the charge brought against him by the noble Marquess at the head of the Home Department, that he (the Earl of
244The Earl of Charleville
241240 said, that certain parts of Ireland were, at present, in a most dangerous state, and it was most important that a strict search for arms should be made. The system of outrage was going on increasing from day to day. A meeting was held in consequence, on Friday last, at Palace Henry, in Limerick, when Mr. Rhodes, a magistrate, stated, that he had been a close observer of the county, and for thirty-five years it never was in such a state of lawless insurrection as it was at present. But it was not in that district alone that outrage existed. He had received information from a neighbouring county, that arms were commonly kept by reckless persons for felonious purposes, In-
241240The Earl of Charleville
239 rose to present a petition from die synod of Dumfries in favour of the bill which he had introduced for the settlement of the difference which at present unhappily distracted the Church of Scotland. The petitioners approved of the whole provisions of the bill. In other quarters, however, the measure had not been so favourably received. One gentleman, in a speech which had been published, severely reprobated the measure. Their Lordships need not be afraid that he was about to debate the subject with that rev. gentleman. But some of his arguments were of so extraordinary a nature, that he could not help adverting to them. It was by him asserted, "that even if there was nothing offensive in the bill, still it could not be permitted that the state should thus presume to dictate in a matter of this kind;" that "it would be a great and grievous act of national sin to sanction such a measure;" and that "the effect of such a proceeding would be to pull down the Redeemer from his throne, and trample on his glories." Such were the arguments made use of against the measure. He was, however, happy to say, that the reception of the bill, generally speaking, far exceeded his most sanguine expectations. From every quarter of the country—from the most enlightened, intelligent, and respectable of the clergy—he had received numerous statements, approving of the measure. He regretted exceedingly that the noble Viscount did not make up his mind on this subject a little sooner, so as to have enabled him (the Earl of Aberdeen) to bring in his bill before Easter. What might be the feeling of the General Assembly on the subject ultimately, it was quite impossible for him to say. He had heard that an overture had been made to them by the Synod of Lothian against supporting this bill; but if the approaching assembly would discuss the matter calmly and fairly, he entertained a strong hope that they would acquiesce in this measure,
239The Earl of Aberdeen
245 said, that though nothing could be more inconvenient than these desultory discussions without any species of notice, yet, as this meeting of magistrates had taken place within a short distance of his own property, and as some of the members of his own family had been engaged at the meeting, he felt it to be his duty to endeavour to undeceive the House as to those conclusions to which the observations of the noble Earl who had just sat down would lead it. The noble Earl seemed to consider his statements to be supported by the proceedings at that meeting. The gravamen of the charge brought by the noble Earl was, that the police of Ireland were encouraged in the neglect of their duty by reason of the supposed impunity with which that neglect was passed over by the Government, or from the encouragement they received from the Government in that neglect; and the noble Earl said, he made that charge, not on vague rumour, but upon the authority of the justices of the peace of the county in which the meeting in question was held. He had received copies of the resolutions which had been passed, and he must say, that they gave no countenance to the assertion that the police were encouraged in their neglect of duty by the supposed connivance of the Government. The charge, therefore, rested upon those loose statements which had been made by the noble Earl, and which the noble Earl had not had the generosity to retract. He (Lord Monteagle) could bear his testimony that his part of the county of Limerick was never in a state of more entire and complete tranquillity than at present; and, he must
245Lord Monteagle
 observed, that the charge the noble Earl had made was, that the police had acted corruptly under corrupt orders issued by the Government. He was glad the noble Earl had now called attention to the resolutions, which did not contain one word against the Government, but, on the contrary, there was one which expressed a determination to apply to that very Government charged with acting corruptly for additional assistance. He, therefore, could not but thank the noble Earl for thus confirming all he (Lord Monteagle) had stated.Lord Monteagle
 said, that in justice to the unoffending part of the population of the county of Limerick, he must declare, from information which he possessed, that those unfortunate occurrences to which the noble Earl had alluded, though they might have taken place in some parts, were by no means general throughout the county. On the contrary, that part of the county of Limerick with which he was connected had, during the last eight or ten years, become progressively more and more quiet. The people were now well ordered and well conducted; and he thought that, to show a want of confidence in them would have a very prejudicial effect on their feelings. He thought it his duty to a large population, and to his own position, to bear this testimony.The Earl of Devon
 said, he had to present a petition from an officer of the late Spanish Legion relative to the settlement of his claims on the Spanish Government. The noble Viscount opposite was pleased to say, when he (the Marquess of Londonderry) moved before Easter for the correspondence with the Spanish Government on the subject of those claims, that a negotiation was then in progress respecting them, and at a subsequent period, he had been informed that the negotiation was still going on. Now, he did not wish to press inconveniently on her Majesty's Government; but he felt it necessary to ask, in justice to the parties interested, if the noble Viscount would name a day on which he could state positively whether the negotiation were brought to a close, or whether the noble Viscount would leave him to resort to the only course he could adopt—that of moving an address to her Majesty, praying that she would direct the case of these unfortunate people to be taken into consideration by her Majesty's Government? The petition which he had to present was from the representative of James Cotter, late an officer in the Spanish Legion. The petitioner stated that he had heard by mere chance that a commission was sitting to decide on the claims of the officers of the Legion, and that he had in consequence proceeded to London to substantiate his claim. There he was kept for three months, separated from his family, far away from his business, and subjected to an enormous expense before he procured his certificate. He therefore complained of the delay in settling his claim, and prayed that he might be reimbursed in the expenses to which he was put while he was unnecessarily detained in London. A noble Earl (Clarendon), the petitioner uuderstood, had stated, that the commission was proceeding in the most satisfactory manner; but, so far from the commission giving satisfaction, the petitioner said he would prove, if a committee of inquiry were granted, that they had in several instances acted with cruelty and injustice. This was only one of many petitions which he had received, in which the petitioners stated, that so far from the conduct of the commission being satisfactory, it was directly the reverse.The Marquess of Londonderry
 was willing to withdraw the petition if the joint were pressed; but the petitioner only stated that he had heard so and so— that a general report prevailed that such an observation had been made, the mention of which did not appear to him to be incorrect.The Marquess of Londonderry
 said, the noble Earl was disposed to make assertions which were not exactly correct. Could the noble Earl state the time when he (the Marquess of Londonderry) had done that of which he was accused?The Marquess of Londonderry
 was obliged to the noble Viscount for his courtesy, because it relieved him from a state of embarrassment with respect to the numerous parties who were interested in the settlement of those claims. He should, therefore give notice, that on the 4th of June he would move an humble address to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty would be graciously pleased to give directions for the settlement of those claims. If the negotiations were not at that time brought to a close, he could postpone the motion; but if brought to a close prior to that, he trusted that the fact would be stated.The Marquess of Londonderry
l.486485"For the reduction of the national debt, and to provide for future relief from part of the present burdens, it was necessary there should be a clear surplus of income beyond the expenditure of not less than five millions, and with a view to attain that important object it was necessary to increase the income of the country by additional taxation,"484 was understood to say that the doctrine of the noble Lord would encourage the idle in every part of the country to enjoy the present time without care for the future. If they looked back to the declaration of almost every Minister who had directed the financial affairs of this country, they would find the same principle maintained throughout, that had been so clearly stated in the speech they had heard from his noble Friend. At the close of the American war, when the country came out of a most unfortunate contest with a deficiency of between five and six millions, what did Mr. Pitt recommend? Not what would be recommended at the present day—not the course of com-
l.486485"For the reduction of the national debt, and to provide for future relief from part of the present burdens, it was necessary there should be a clear surplus of income beyond the expenditure of not less than five millions, and with a view to attain that important object it was necessary to increase the income of the country by additional taxation,"484Lord Ashburton
463 again objected to receiving the petition, on the ground
463The Duke of Richmond
462 wished to point out to his noble Friend a part of the peti-
462The Duke of Richmond
479pro tantol.l.l.l.l.478l.l.477l.476l.475l.l.l.l.l.l.474l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.473l.l.l.vis inertœ472471470 said that he did not anticipate that any objection would be made to the production of the papers for which he was about to move,
479pro tantol.l.l.l.l.478l.l.477l.476l.475l.l.l.l.l.l.474l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.473l.l.l.vis inertœ472471470The Earl of Ripon
 could not state the precise day, but such, nevertheless, was the fact.The Earl of Clarendon
 said, the petition was clearly irregular, and it certainly was not the first time the noble Marquess (though so far as he was concerned, the noble Marquess was welcome to it) had read answers from petitions to speeches which he had made in that House.The Earl of Clarendon
466ex parte465464 said, the petition which he rose to present, was connected in some degree with the administration of justice; and he called the particular attention of the noble Viscount at the head of the Treasury to it, because he was sure, that if the statements contained in the petition were verified, as he believed they could satisfactorily be, the noble Viscount would see the propriety and justice of acceding to what the petitioner required. In the year 1818 or 1819, a convention was entered into with the French Government by the noble Duke below him, by which a considerable sum of money was appropriated to the discharge of claims made by British subjects on account of losses which they had sustained by confiscations during the revolutionary contest in France. Commissioners were appointed to investigate those claims; and an Act of Parliament was passed, by which it was enacted that any of the claims not decided satisfactorily to the claimants by the commissioners, might be brought by appeal before the Privy Council, provided those original claims were made within a certain time. But certain of the claimants, from various circumstances, were not able to comply with that provision, and their applications were not made within the specified time. It turned out, however, that the sum paid was larger than what was necessary to meet the demands that were preferred; and it was accordingly ordered by the Treasury, and was considered as just, that the second class of petitioners, who were in the first instance late in their application, should be placed in the same situation as the first, and that they should, after investigation, receive compensation according to the extent of their losses. The Act of Parliament, however, only applied to the first class, and some difficulty was found in extending the right of appeal to the second class. With that view an arrangement was made by the Treasury, that the right of appeal should be extended to the
466ex parte465464Lord Lyndhurst
 said, that ought not to bind the party. The courts of this country admitted the opinions of foreign lawyers as matter of fact, and the opinions of one set of lawyers might in court be met by the opinions of another set, and the British tribunal then decided between those opinions.Lord Lyndhurst
: That is disputed. This is the first intimation the petitioner has had of the nature of that opinion of the law officers of the Crown; at least I am so instructed.Lord Lyndhurst
 remarked, that his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack said the petitioner was too late in making the present application. Why, the moment the judgment was known to the petitioner, he claimed the right of appeal. He differed from the opinion expressed by his noble and learned Friend, that this was a matter for the discretion of the Treasury. The Act of Parliament gave the absolute right of appeal, and what said the Treasury minute? Why, that the claimant should be placed by it in the same situation as if another act was passed. It was clear that the award of the commissioners was incorrect; it gave no compensation whatever for any part of the Champagne estate, it was entirely confined to the Burgundy estate, and therefore the party had a right to correct it by an appeal to the Judicial committee of the Privy Council. His noble and learned Friend had said the opinion of the law officers of the Crown had been taken. But they were parties—they were the advocates for the Treasury before the commissioners. Was the petitioner, then, to be conclusively bound by the opinions of the law officers of the Crown? The opinions of the French lawyers had never been submitted to the claimant, and he had a right to have those opinions referred to a court of appeal, in order that the court might exercise a judgment upon them.Lord Lyndhurst
483Ripon:l.482481"Events have happened in China which have occasioned an interruption of the commercial intercourse of my subjects with that country. I have given, and shall continue to give, the most serious attention to a matter so
481480 said, his noble Friend seemed to admit that the state of affairs, both at home and abroad, was somewhat better than it was at the time that he called the attention of the House
483Ripon:l.482481"Events have happened in China which have occasioned an interruption of the commercial intercourse of my subjects with that country. I have given, and shall continue to give, the most serious attention to a matter so
481480Viscount Melbourne
 said, that with respect to the question which the noble Marquess had put to him, he could answer it at once. There was no necessity for him to give notice of a day on which to answer it. The negotiations were not completed, they were now proceeding, and it therefore remained for the noble Marquess to take whatsoever course he thought fit.Viscount Melbourne
 said, it was impossible to answer that question then.Viscount Melbourne
468de novo.467 said, the petition related to a matter which had been heard before the judicial committee of the Privy Council, and that the petitioner had no legal right to ask that which by his petition he prayed. It would be mere matter of favour and discretion to grant the prayer, and its concession would depend upon the nature of the claim and the proceedings which had taken place upon it. The statute certainly gave a right of appeal to the Privy Council, provided the appeal was presented within three months after the adjudication of the commissioners. The adjudication complained of was made in 1835, so that five years had elapsed before the party thought himself entitled to try the matter before the Privy Council. But the information which his noble and learned Friend had received was in many respects inaccurate, and it differed much from the information derived from official documents which had reached him (the Lord Chancellor). His noble and learned Friend had correctly stated, that the claim was originally made in respect of two estates. To one of these estates, situate in Burgundy, the claimant had succeeded in right of his father, and with respect to which no question could now arise, as its value had been ascertained, and the party had been paid it
468de novo.467The Lord Chancellor
 said, that if the law officers of the Crown gave any opinion at all, it was in favour of the petitioner. Those who had absolutely decided against his claim were the two French lawyers whose names he had mentioned.The Lord Chancellor
469 was certain his noble and learned Friend had not been instructed correctly as to that part of the case. Both his noble and learned Friend and himself had had experience enough in the discussion of private rights to know that it was not uncommon for the parties to tell those who advocated their interests all that was in their favour, but to keep back matters which made against them. It was better that the whole truth should be stated before a complaint was made. But, in fact, a further question had been put to the law officers of the Crown— namely, how far the son had an absolute and indefeasible interest in the Champagne estates after the death of both parents. The law officers of the Crown reported their inability to answer that part of the case, and it was accordingly referred to M. Dupin and M. d'Est Ange, in France, and those learned individuals held that the son had not an absolute and indefeasible right to that estate. Such being the case, he (the Lord Chancellor) was at a loss to know what question could now be referred to the Judicial Committee, except the opinion of the French lawyers, the accuracy of which would be all the Judicial Committee could have to decide. There had been a very long and protracted investigation of these claims, and no pains had been spared to come to a right conclusion; and if the party could not impugn the opinions of the French lawyers, he could not be entitled to more compen-
469The Lord Chancellor
494 presented petitions from a number of members of different guilds, constituting the corporation of the city of Dublin, against the Irish Corporation Reform Bill. The noble Earl said, that having been prevented from being present when this bill was recently before their Lordships, and as, perhaps, he should not be able to attend when the measure would be next discussed, he should take the present opportunity of again, as he had formerly done, warning their Lordships against the bill which was now on their table. Connected with Ireland, and knowing the state of feeling which prevailed in that country, he would say decidedly that this bill was not called for, except by those whose object was agitation, and whose desire it was to overthrow and destroy the Protestant institutions of the country. If the bill, which the noble Viscount had postponed for very good reasons, had come on, as was originally intended, to-night, he certainly should have felt it to be his duty, to take the sense of the House on the principle of the measure. Their Lordships had heard counsel at the Bar against this most important bill, and he thought that the corporation of Dublin, in their mode of opposition, had acted most honestly end most wisely—honestly, because they had shown their deep anxiety to protect their
494The Earl of Roden
 said, that the present bill did not contain anything either of novelty or difficulty: its only new provisions went to extend the powers of having lunatics transferred to lunatic asylums which already existed. He was not prepared to alter the bill in the way proposed by his noble Friend, in respect of charging upon the consolidated fund, the maintenance of persons under sentence of transportation who became insane.The Marquess of Normanby
499498497 presented a petition from the inhabitants of the parish of Merthyr Tydvil, where the iron works were more extensive than in any part of the country. In consequence of the enormous population that had sprung up of late years in that parish, which within the memory of man, was a rural parish, with not more than 1,000 inhabitants, the want of church accommodation was most seriously felt. Even since the commencement of the present century the population had increased from 4,000 to between 40,000 and 50,000, but no increased church accommodation had accompanied this increase of the people. Perhaps, the blame might be considered partly to rest upon those parties who had been the cause of increasing the population of the parish by bringing persons from all parts of the country to labour for their benefit. Still that would not acquit the Legislature if it neglected the duty which the existence of this state of things imposed upon it. If there was no legal mode of compelling the proprietors of the iron works at Merthyr Tydvil to supply a remedy for the evil that had arisen, it became the duty of the Legislature to take the subject into consideration, and endeavour (as the petitioners prayed) to devise some remedy for the evil complained of. The petition was signed by 1,750 persons, and they
499498497The Bishop of Llandaff
 begged to express his thanks to his right rev. Friend for the very able, and kind, and affectionate manner in which he had supported the prayer of these petitioners. There was not a single opinion advanced by his right rev. Friend in which he did not heartily concur. The inhabitants of Merthyr-Tydvil would feel much indebted to his right rev. Friend for his able advocacy of their cause this day. It was a singular fact, that the census of the population of Merthyr Tydvil in 1831 did not give the full number of the inhabitants of that parish. It so happened that the returns pf the population were made within a few days after the riots there, and such had been the alarm created by those riots, that not less than 3,000 persons had left the town.The Marquess of Bute
 thought that this was a subject of very great importance; and, therefore, he should say a few words in support of the prayer of the petition, which was well worthy the consideration of her Majesty's Ministers. The present state of the law with respect to the importation of foreign fruit inflicted on the labouring class —on the poorer class—a very severe injury, and ought to he amended. He hoped, therefore, that his noble Friend would bring the subject distinctly before their Lordships.The Earl of Winchilsea
502 had no objection to the production of the paper for which his noble Friend had moved; and, in assenting to the production of it, he begged to offer to his noble Friend his best thanks for the very clear statement he had made of the views his noble Friend entertained upon this most important subject. As his noble Friend, however, had only given notice of an intention to put a short question, he was not prepared for so detailed a statement of his views and opinions upon the subject. Under these circumstances, he was sure his noble Friend would feel that it would be premature on his part, if
502The Marquess of Normanby
 thought that some general measure should be introduced to remove existing difficulties, to specify distinctly the description of property to be rated, and to do justice to all parties. It was absolutely requisite that some clear, intelligible, and definite law should be passed upon the subject before the close of the present Session.Lord Ashburton
495 presented a petition from a numerous body of market-gardeners who supply the London market with fruit and vegetables, complaining of the great injury which they sustain in consequence of the low rate of duty imposed on the importation of fresh foreign fruit. When his noble Friend, at the head of the Government, was formerly applied to on this subject, he said, that he would take
495The Duke of Richmond
503 was delighted that the noble Baron had brought this subject under their Lordships' consideration; and not less delighted to find that the noble Marquess, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, thought it would be desirable to bring in a separate bill upon the subject. He was quite sure that that would be the best way of dealing with the question. Their Lordships would not be doing justice if they altered only that part of the existing law which related to stock in trade. Because, he for one—although he thought the stock in trade of the shopkeeper ought not to be rated, still if a bill should come up to their Lordships, which did not prevent the stock of the farmer from being
503The Duke of Richmond
496 said, he objected to some of the provisions of the bill. He could not consent that those insane prisoners should be supported out of the rates. Under the Poor-law Bill, a father, who happened to have property, and whose child was in the workhouse, was obliged to allow something for its maintenance. Now, the parents of some of these insane prisoners might possess property, and he could not see why they should not be supported by them in like manner. Indeed, he could not see why a part of the expense should not be defrayed out of the consoli-
496The Duke of Richmond
501500 had given notice of his intention to ask a question of his noble Friend at the head of the Home Department (the Marquess of Normanby) respecting the rating to the relief of the poor, but he had since thought it would be more convenient to move for a copy of the letter addressed by the Poor-law Commissioners to the churchwardens and overseers of the several parishes within this country, especially relating to the subject of rating stock in trade. This he believed to be as important a subject as any that could possibly engage their Lordships' attention, because it affected all the inhabitants, and particularly the rate-payers (who were now become a distinct people), in every parish. The Court of Queen's Bench, in the judgment given in the case of "The. Queen v. Lumsdale," had decided, that stock in trade was liable to be, and must be rated under the statute of the 43d of Elizabeth, and subsequent statutes relating to the rating of the poor.
501500Lord Portman
554553 had to present a petition, very respectably signed, of which he had given notice last week, on the subject of the Articles and the Liturgy of the Church of England. It was signed by sixty persons, half of whom were clergymen, and all of whom were members of the Church of England. The petition complained of certain parts of the articles of subscription to the Established Church and the Liturgy, which it stated required to be altered, and concluded by praying that their Lordships would consider what measures should be adopted to render the articles consistent with the practices of the clergy, and the acknowledged mean-
554553The Archbishop of Dublin
555 agreed in much
555The Bishop of Lincoln
556 would willingly join and assist in the adoption of any reasonable and practical plan that might be proposed by the most rev. Prelate, or by any other competent persons who might take the subject into their hands; but agreeing entirely upon that point with the most rev. Prelate, and not thinking it necessary to enter upon the reasons for his concurrence, he could not agree in the prayer of the petition, which the rev. Prelate had presented, which was a subject of a very different kind. The petition related to matters concerning the present state of the Church and the Liturgy, and it made a statement which was not fully authorised. If there were such practices in the Church as were alluded to, they were confined to a small minority of the clergy, and it was his opinion, from all he had heard, and from every opportunity he had had of observing, that every plan which proposed an alteration in the articles or liturgy of the Church, so far from satisfying the great body of the clergy, gave the greatest dissatisfaction to the largest portion of that body. The small number of signatures to the present petition justified that inference. The prayer of the petition was not the opinion of the great body of the clergy, the majority of whom was decidedly adverse to it. Indeed he
556The Archbishop of Canterbury
559nolumus leges Angliœ mutaricaptandum vulgusverbatim et literatim558557 would not have risen if the name of a clergyman of his own diocese (Mr. Wodehouse, a prebendary of Norwich) had not been mentioned. He agreed with the most rev. Prelate, who had presented this petition, that there was an insuperable difficulty with respect to an alteration of the liturgy, and perhaps of the articles. He saw the difficulties, and he fully believed that the clergy, as a body, would not consent to any alteration. He trusted, however, that he might be allowed, without entering upon the statements in the petition, and without stating whether he himself agreed to this or that alteration, to make a few observations on the point of subscription. If it were proved that there was anything insincere in the subscription—if the clergy confessed with their lips what they did not confess with their hearts—they were giving to their opponents an advantage ground of which they would readily avail themselves, and their opponents would have to thank them for having placed them upon it. How stood the question of subscription? He did not pretend to enter into all the particulars and considerations; let it suffice to say that there were apparent difficulties—mind he only said apparent—about the
559nolumus leges Angliœ mutaricaptandum vulgusverbatim et literatim558557The Bishop of Norwich
caput mortuum563ex animo562"I mean an universal system deduced from scripture, and digested into heads of doctrine like the articles, and that is to be equally binding on priests, deacons, and bishops. In short, I would have a system of religious laws that would remain fixed and permanent like our civil constitution, and that would preserve the body ecclesiastical from tyranny and despotism, as much at least as our code of common and statute law does the people in general; for I am convinced that the liberty of conscience contended for by the petitioners, would be the forerunner of religious slavery,""Nothing can be clearer to me, than that forms of subscription are necessary for the sake of order, and decorum, and public peace. By a form of subscription I mean a general standard, which obtains throughout the whole community, and not the partial creed of this or that bishop by whom a priest happens to be ordained. Were this rule to take place, how perplexing would be the situation of a clergyman, ordained in the diocese of Ely, beneficed in that of Chester, and removed to that of Gloucester."561560 said, that after the temperate speech of the most rev. Prelate who had presented the petition, and the concurrence of the most rev. Prelate (the Archbishop of Canterbury), he had hoped that their Lordships would
caput mortuum563ex animo562"I mean an universal system deduced from scripture, and digested into heads of doctrine like the articles, and that is to be equally binding on priests, deacons, and bishops. In short, I would have a system of religious laws that would remain fixed and permanent like our civil constitution, and that would preserve the body ecclesiastical from tyranny and despotism, as much at least as our code of common and statute law does the people in general; for I am convinced that the liberty of conscience contended for by the petitioners, would be the forerunner of religious slavery,""Nothing can be clearer to me, than that forms of subscription are necessary for the sake of order, and decorum, and public peace. By a form of subscription I mean a general standard, which obtains throughout the whole community, and not the partial creed of this or that bishop by whom a priest happens to be ordained. Were this rule to take place, how perplexing would be the situation of a clergyman, ordained in the diocese of Ely, beneficed in that of Chester, and removed to that of Gloucester."561560The Bishop of London
 said, that not having been able to consider sufficiently the bill of the noble Earl, he would abstain at present from saying anything respecting it. He would, however, maintain the opinion which he held the last time he had the honour of addressing their Lordships upon the subject, which was, that the people of Scotland did not go along with those who had placed themselves in resistance to the law of the land. The law of the land had been declared by the highest authority in the law—by their Lordships in their judicial capacity; and if there were any who persisted in offering resistance to the law, he asserted that it was not the people of Scotland, but those misguided individuals or bodies who had thought fit to join them. He might be told that there was conflict and collision upon the subject; but what was it? It was a conflict and collision which there ever would be in every case where a decision had been pronounced by a legal, authorized, and only authorised tribunal—namely, a conflict and collision between that tribunal and the party against whom that tribunal had pronounced judgment. And whether that party were an humble or a powerful individual—whether an individual or a body corporate—whether the meanest lay corporation in the country, or the highest clerical body in the country—it fell within the same rule, and must be considered as the party in a suit in which the decision was given against it by a competent tribunal. Great differences prevailed on other points in that part of the kingdom to which he alluded; he was anxious that those heats should subside; he was anxious, as the peace of the country would be endangered if the peace of the Church were endangered—he was most anxious, before any legislative measure should be adopted, that proper means might be taken in the proper quarter to secure and enforce not merely a nominal but a real and substantial obedience to the law as it at present existed.Lord Brougham
773772771770769768767766765 said, that he had to apoligise to their Lordships for rising to give his opinion with respect to the bill in its present stage, but not having been present on a former occasion, so as to avail himself of the opportunity of doing so at the proper stage, he had no other alternative. He had had repeated occasions—indeed he was sorry to say how often, as the frequency showed for how long a period so important, a question had been left unsettled, but he had had repeated occasions of addressing their Lordships upon this subject, and his noble and learned Friend deserved the thanks both of their Lordships and the country for bringing it again before their Lordships, without being dispirited by the failure which he suffered upon the point four years ago. He hoped he should not be accused of an obstinate adherence to his former opinions if, after having since the introduction of this bill given to the subject, the greatest possible attention, he still, in some measure, adhered to those opinions. In giving the grounds he would not say of his opposition to, but of his doubts as to the necessity of so large a measure, he did not mean to say that there was no necessity for some increase of the judicial force; but, as there was great conflict of argument upon the subject, it would better tend to guide the House, so as that it might more clearly find its way through so intricate a question, to state clearly all that might be urged for and against it; for his own part he felt that he should best discharge his duty by fairly stating the reason which induced him to adhere to his former opinions. One of the main facts which the House had to consider was, whether the increase of business in the courts of equity was or was not such as to require so large an increase of the judicial force. The two main sources of the business were the bills filed and the petitions presented, and in both these it was stated, that a great increase had taken place. Now, in the five years ending in 1754, he found the number of bills filed was 1,698, being something under 1,700., and the average number of petitions was 282, making altogether 1,980. In the five years ending 1835, being the latest period at which returns had been presented, the number of bills filed was 2,366, and the number of petitions presented was 1,271, making a total of 3,637, which, instead of being double, as
773772771770769768767766765Lord Brougham
 had no objection to that course. In explanation, however, he must be permitted to say, that his noble and learned Friend had somewhat mistaken his argument. He admitted that there was a very heavy arrear in the Court of Chancery, but he contended that that being only of a temporary nature, the appointment of one additional judge would be abundantly sufficient to master it within a reasonable time.Lord Brougham
 entirely agreed in the propriety of sending this bill to a committee up stairs; he hoped, however, no one in that House would misunderstand, and none out of doors misrepresent, the object of his noble and learned Friend. He was quite sure his noble and learned Friend would go into the committee with the sincerest desire to abate this long-continued grievance, which he had himself brought under their Lordships' consideration in former years. His noble and learned Friend opposite (Lord Brougham) thought one additional Vice-chancellor would be sufficient to get rid of the arrears. But even if the smallest case could be made out for the appointment of a second, it would be the duty of the committee to recommend it.Lord Ellenborough
, in presenting a petition against the intrusion of ministers into the Church of Scotland, and praying that the bill then before Parliament, introduced by the noble Earl opposite (the Earl of Aberdeen), might not pass into a law, observed that the general assembly of the Church of Scotland had, as their Lordships were aware, come to a decision, by a large majority, unfavourable to that bill, and such he believed to be the feeling not only of a great majority of the Church of Scotland, but of the people at large.The Marquess of Breadalbane
763 could only refer the noble Earl to the numerous
763The Marquess of Breadalbane
 said, unless he were satisfied with the clearness of demonstration almost that one would be sufficient, he should certainly vote for a scond additional judge.Lord Lyndhurst
777 said, their Lordships had attended to the statements and details which had been entered into upon this occasion, in a manner which the importance of the subject demanded; and he was quite satisfied they could only come to one conclusion—that it was impossible to arrive at any safe and satisfactory decision with respect to this bill, except by referring the consideration of it to a committee upstairs. He was clearly of opinion, that at least one additional judge was necessary for the Court of Chancery. It was quite impossible to get rid of the arrears existing in that court, without consenting that one judge should be added to its present strength. The only doubt that existed in
777Lord Lyndhurst
 thought their Lordships were perfectly competent, after all the inquiries which had taken place upon this subject, at once to form an opinion as to the best remedy for an universally admitted evil, without sending this bill to a committee up stairs. At all events, he hoped the committee would proceed with its inquiries forthwith, and report as speedily as possible. He had come with great, reluctance to a full conviction that it was necessary to increase the judicial strength of the Court of Chancery, and the sooner that remedy was applied the better. A state of transition in courts of justice was one of the worst for the suitors that could possibly exist.Lord Denman
bonâ fide felt perfectly satisfied as to all the details of the bill; but, believing this motion to originate in a bonâ fideThe Lord Chancellor
776775774 said, he would recall his noble and learned Friend's attention to one or two tests which he (the Lord Chancellor) thought his noble and learned Friend would admit were quite conclusive as to the necessity of having a considerable addition to the force of the Chancery judges. He knew that it was almost universally the opinion of the bar, that great additional strength was required; and that it was the opinion of the solicitors who practised in the court, he knew. It was also the opinion of the judges engaged in administering equity. These were the persons, and the only persons, who, being conversant with the present state of business in the Court of Chancery, could state the difficulties which at present existed in obtaining justice in the present state of the arrears of that court. Whatever might be the
776775774The Lord Chancellor
778 also concurred in the propriety of referring the consideration of this bill to a committee up stairs. The evil
778Lord Abinger
 presented petitions from places in Scotland, and from the Presbytery of Newcastle-on-Tyne, against the intrusion of ministers in the Scotch Church. The noble Marquess proceeded to say, that the excitement prevailing on that subject in Scotland was already sufficiently strong, without anything being said or done in that House or elsewhere, which could tend to aggravate the feelings of the people of Scotland. He must say, that if that people, attached as they were to all the principles of their Presbyterian Church, considered, that by the decision of the civil judicature of the country, their rights had been infringed on, they would only conscientiously discharge their duty in endeavouring to obtain an alteration of the law. The pastors of that church would, in his opinion, have deserted their obligations, and would not have fulfilled their duties, if they did not endeavour to maintain the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of their Church when they thought it had been assailed.The Marquess of Breadulbane
816 felt himself called upon to express his complete conviction, that the conduct of the majority of the Church of Scotland was endangering the institutions of that country in a manner they were not perhaps aware of. He did not deny that a very strong feeling had been excited, but it had been excited in a manner which, friendly as he was to the Church of Scotland, he was very sorry to see. As had been truly observed by the noble and learned Lord (Lord (Brougham) last evening, the Church of Scotland stood in direct opposition to the law of the land. He was ready to give credit to every man for any conscientious scruples which he might entertain; but if individuals or bodies of men were entitled to oppose the decisions of the courts, and to disobey the law, because they entertained scruples of conscience, he must say, that he thought one of the very first principles which bound society together would be endangered. He very much regretted to perceive that the bill of the noble Earl opposite had been rejected by the majority of the General Assembly. It should not
816The Earl of Camperdown
 put it to their Lordships, whether there was much fairness, any more than good sense, if the noble Marquess would permit him to make the observation, in putting into the mouth of any person, a word which he had never used, more especially when at the very moment when the suggestion was made, it was declared that the word had not in reality been employed. The noble Marquess had suggested, that he had used the word, "rebel," whereass in fact, he had not used it. The noble Marquess began by saying, that he almost used the word, and then he proceeded to act and to speak, as if in truth he had employed it. Now, that was holding him up to the minority, as he said, of the people of Scotland, and to the majority of the Church judicature, as he believed, in an improper light, more especially in the exciteable state in which their minds now were.Lord Brougham
830, in moving the consideration of the Commons' Amendment to the Prisons' Act Amendment Bill, said that it was the intention to relieve certain persons confined for misdemeanour from great severity of punishment. He did not agree that parties convicted of all political offences short of treason should be treated as felons, but at the same time be was not disposed to confine a relaxation of discipline to persons confined for one portion of the class of misdemeanours, but he would extend it, if circumstances required it, to all portions. The amendment made in the Commons did not meet the difficulty, for it limited the relaxation to the provisions of the Prisons' Act of last year, whereas the seventy arose under the General Gaol Act of 4 Geo. 4th; and he would, therefore, propose an alteration in the amendment so as to make it meet all cases of misdemeanour in which circumstances should exist which should render it desirable to mitigate in favour of particular prisoners the general prison regulations. But in moving this, he only did it as a temporary measure, because it would scarcely meet the real evil. At some future time he would propose that convicts confined for misdemeanours should be separated into two distinct classes, and that then the judge should state whether the prisoner should be confined in class one or class two; thus leaving in the hands of the judges the discretion as to the severity of punishment in each case. As to some cases, the previous habits of the individual made an enforcement of the strict ordinary prison discipline a great increase of the severity of punishment, and under the name of uniformity they were making the most unequal punishment. The Commons' amendment, too, confined the power to the visiting justices and the Secretary of State; he proposed to add the term "visitors" to make the temporary remedy apply to the
830The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that it seemed to have been the intention of the House of Commons to alter a bill framed, for one purpose, expressly to meet certain cases that had lately occurred, and, in fact, to alter entirely the law with regard to all seditious and public libels; and if the noble Marquess's alteration were intended to meet those particular cases, he was, in fact, agreeing to the amendment of the Commons. Now, this was not a fair way of meeting such a question, because if the noble Marquess thought that in these particular cases there ought to be a relaxation of punishment, he had the power of recommending the exercise of the clemency of the Crown; and it would be but fair, as the whole law was proposed to be altered, that the precise amendment should be printed for noble Lords to consider.The Marquess of Salisbury
831 would not oppose the printing if it were pressed, and there was any objection to the principle of his alteration. He must, however, say one word upon the noble Marquess's remarks, that though he might wish to relax the severity of prison discipline, he might not wish to go to the extent of recommending an exercise of the clemency of the
831The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that if his objection to the proposed alteration was strong before, it was made ten times stronger by the remarks of the noble Baron, because it would appear, that it was the object of the alteration to allow the Secretary of State to alter when he thought fit the sentences of the Judges.The Marquess of Salisbury
832 observed,
832The Marquess of Normanby
: That was the fault of the Secretary of State. He might have disallowed the rules if they were not uniform.Lord Ellenborough
: That could not be, for the state of prisons would not allow uniformity.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that the effect of the noble Marquess's alteration, as he understood it, was to make the punishment in all cases of misdemeanour depend not on the sentence of the judge who had tried the prisoner, but on the view taken of the case by the Secretary of State. In some cases such a power in the Secretary of State might be necessary; but as the noble Marquess himself admitted that his present proposal was only temporary, he had better bring in such a bill as he considered perfectly right.Lord Ellenborough
 said, the noble and learned Lord (Lord Brougham) had last evening almost called the people of Scotland rebels, because they held, that the decisions of the civil courts were contrary to the fundamental principles on which their national Church was established. Were the people of Scotland to be called rebels, because they endeavoured to support the fundamental principles of their Church? The House of Commons, when recently supporting their privileges against decisions of the courts of law, had not been called rebels, then why brand the people of Scotland with that name.The Marquess of Breadalbane
 said, that all that was asked by the proposed alteration was, to give to the Secretary of State the same power of relaxing the prison discipline in particular cases which might demand it, as the surgeon of the prison now had on a consideration of the health of a particular prisoner. There were parties to whom simple imprisonment itself was a very great punishment, and under the present law, if a person were sentenced to imprisonment for a misdemeanour in inciting to a breach of the peace, he must be subject to every one portion of the ordinary prison discipline for misdemeanours, and he was sure that inciting to a breach of the peace, was not such a case as their Lordships would wish to see punished by such severity.Lord Portman
815 was at a loss to understand what was the meaning of the noble Marquess in the observations he had offered to the House. The noble Marquess had said, that the people of Scotland had a right to call for an alteration of the law which they complained of. Undoubtedly they had. But when the noble Marquess said, that they were justified in complaining of a trenching on their rights, and a violation of them, he (the Earl of Aberdeen) must say, that no such violation had taken place. The law of the land had been
815The Earl of Aberdeen
 remarked, in reference to some of the cases which had been alluded to, and which had come under his own observation, that it was impossible to say that people could be better treated according to their deserts than those individuals. They all knew that this matter was got up in another place, for the purpose of asking their Lordships to legislate permanently with the reports of these cases fresh on their minds, and he would certainly vote for the printing of the amendment.The Earl of Warwick
: Why not print the original bill with the Commons' amendments and the proposed alteration of the noble Marquess?Lord Lyndhurst
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid upon the table of the House a copy of the treaty negociated with the Sicilian government in 1839 by Mr. M'Gregor, and of the correspondence between Viscount Palmerston and Mr. M'Gregor relating thereto."*Of public scorn.'" *A dismal universal hiss, the sound'—On all sides, from innumerable tongues,"Solemn engagements, to which we were parties, have been broken; gross indignity, by the admission of the Ministers themselves, has been offered to our King; Europe has been strewed with victims ruined by their confidence in us; negotiations on all these matters have been undertaken, and have ended in acknowledged nothing; England, or at least its Government, is loaded with the reproaches of Europe; we hear825"Although I was convinced of the sincerity of his Majesty, yet the evidence of intrigues and corruption were clear; and the assurance given to Taix by the Minister of the Interior, as lately as three days before, of the King's determination to maintain the monopoly, was so positive, that Taix had written to his partner at Palermo, directing him to make public there: 'Grace à la fermeté du Roi il a gagné une grande victoire sur les Anglais avec Monsieur Macgregor à leur téte."824"The policy contemplated by the Neapolitan government in asking this six months delay is that of sacrificing the interests of British subjects established in this island, and of those interested in the trade as consumers, to add to the profits of a few French speculators, who, unlike British merchants, are total strangers in the island, who have taken no part in the rise or progress of the sulphur trade, and whose existence in connexion with this branch of the trade of Sicily dates only from the commencement of the monopoly. Other objects, however, contemplated by the monopolists in the required delay is, that they may, in the meantime, occupy the markets free from competition, and thus be enabled to dictate their own conditions as to prices. Granting their request would effect their pur-
824"If the abolition of the sulphur monopoly contract be deferred for six months—say till the 30th of June—it must of necessity continue until the 31st December.""If you allow an extension to six months, you in substance and effect allow an extension of a year."823ds"The sulphur they have on hand they can only export by paying an amount, as a differential duty, of about 84dsl.822821820819***"When the time had arrived at which the Government think that information may be communicated to Parliament without detriment to the public service, surely it is incumbent upon them to give such papers as shall elucidate the transactions to which they relate, and shall afford such complete explanations as may enable Parliament to arrive at a sound and correct judgment upon the course which has been pursued; but to give imperfect information, mutilated extracts, and fragments of correspondence, from which the most important parts have been cut off, is to make a mockery of Parliament, under pretence of submitting to its jurisdiction."*818817 said, he was anxious for a few moments to call the attention of the House to a subject of very great importance. Their Lordships had no doubt read the papers laid upon their Lordships' Table, relating to the sulphur monopoly in Sicily, and they must have been surprised, on their perusal, to find that there was no mention made among them of the treaty negociated by Mr. M'Gregor, on the part of this country last
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid upon the table of the House a copy of the treaty negociated with the Sicilian government in 1839 by Mr. M'Gregor, and of the correspondence between Viscount Palmerston and Mr. M'Gregor relating thereto."*Of public scorn.'" *A dismal universal hiss, the sound'—On all sides, from innumerable tongues,"Solemn engagements, to which we were parties, have been broken; gross indignity, by the admission of the Ministers themselves, has been offered to our King; Europe has been strewed with victims ruined by their confidence in us; negotiations on all these matters have been undertaken, and have ended in acknowledged nothing; England, or at least its Government, is loaded with the reproaches of Europe; we hear825"Although I was convinced of the sincerity of his Majesty, yet the evidence of intrigues and corruption were clear; and the assurance given to Taix by the Minister of the Interior, as lately as three days before, of the King's determination to maintain the monopoly, was so positive, that Taix had written to his partner at Palermo, directing him to make public there: 'Grace à la fermeté du Roi il a gagné une grande victoire sur les Anglais avec Monsieur Macgregor à leur téte."824"The policy contemplated by the Neapolitan government in asking this six months delay is that of sacrificing the interests of British subjects established in this island, and of those interested in the trade as consumers, to add to the profits of a few French speculators, who, unlike British merchants, are total strangers in the island, who have taken no part in the rise or progress of the sulphur trade, and whose existence in connexion with this branch of the trade of Sicily dates only from the commencement of the monopoly. Other objects, however, contemplated by the monopolists in the required delay is, that they may, in the meantime, occupy the markets free from competition, and thus be enabled to dictate their own conditions as to prices. Granting their request would effect their pur-
824"If the abolition of the sulphur monopoly contract be deferred for six months—say till the 30th of June—it must of necessity continue until the 31st December.""If you allow an extension to six months, you in substance and effect allow an extension of a year."823ds"The sulphur they have on hand they can only export by paying an amount, as a differential duty, of about 84dsl.822821820819***"When the time had arrived at which the Government think that information may be communicated to Parliament without detriment to the public service, surely it is incumbent upon them to give such papers as shall elucidate the transactions to which they relate, and shall afford such complete explanations as may enable Parliament to arrive at a sound and correct judgment upon the course which has been pursued; but to give imperfect information, mutilated extracts, and fragments of correspondence, from which the most important parts have been cut off, is to make a mockery of Parliament, under pretence of submitting to its jurisdiction."*818817Lord Lyndhurst
 What was the paper which the noble Lord promised to produce? Was it the imperfect treaty—viz., the notes of Mr. M'Gregor, or the treaty drawn up at home, founded upon that imperfect treaty?Lord Lyndhurst.
. Then if a treaty had been prepared consistently with the notes of Mr. M'Gregor, and negotiations were still pending as to that proposed treaty, of course he was not in a position to press his motion.Lord Lyndhurst
 had answered hastily; he did mean the notes of Mr. M'Gregor; but he had afterwards altered his opinion of the propriety of producing them, and he had taken an early opportunity of stating his determination.Viscount Melbourne
828827826** said, that perhaps their Lordships would recollect that when this subject was before the House upon a former occasion he gave an account of Mr. M'Gregor's proceedings, which the noble Lord called negotiations; and of this document, which he had denominated a treaty; and in these descriptions and expressions consisted a great deal of the fallacy of the argument of the noble Lord. There could be no desire on the part of the Government for concealment; and when the time arrived to which the noble Lord had referred at the end of his speech—the time when it would be proper to go into a more deliberate investigation of the subject—all the documents might be produced; but at the present time he thought that he should find no difficulty in being able to convince the House that these papers were not of such a nature and character as ought to be laid before the House; and moreover, that even if they might hereafter be brought to light, at the present period, and under the existing circumstances of affairs between this and the Neapolitan government, such a step could not with propriety be taken.
828827826**Viscount Melbourne
 wished to know whether her Majesty's Ministers had received from the Governor-general any report of his having carried into effect, or of his having relinquished his intention of acting on the project which had been announced by him in his despatch of the 13th March.The Bishop of Exeter
Gazette. begged leave to ask the noble Viscount (Melbourne) the question of which he had given notice with respect to the Roman Catholic College of St. Sulpice, in Lower Canada. He wished to know what the Special Council had done with respect to the incorporation of that college of which notice had been given in the Extraordinary Gazette.The Bishop of Exeter
 wished to ask, thirdly, whether the noble Viscount would have any objection to lay before the House the instructions given to the Governor-general, and which he had referred to in his despatch of March 13.The Bishop of Exeter
 said, that if the Governor-general had received no instructions, though he himself had alluded to them in his despatch, that of course settled the question.The Bishop of Exeter
 presented three petitions from Edinburgh, praying for a repeal of the Corn-laws.Earl of Fitzwilliam
 was anxious that the discussion of the subject should take place, because the truth would then be brought to light.The Earl of Falmouth
 did not think it very desirable that the question should be discussed on the presentation of petitions, and without due notice.The Marquess of Salisbury
Anti-corn-law would remind the noble Earl that the organ of the Anti-corn-law party, a very mischievous publication, called the Anti-corn-lawThe Earl of Falmouth
 said, that the noble Earl would find that these words had been made use of in the Manchester Chamber of Commerce, and he was rather surprised to find so respectable a body of merchants sanctioning the use of such terms.The Earl of Falmouth
918 presented a petition adopted at a large public meeting, held at Bradford, in Yorkshire, and signed by the chairman on behalf of the meeting, complaining of the treatment of Mr. Feargus O'Connor in York Castle. The petition stated that Mr. O'Connor, for the offence of which he had been convicted—a libel —had been subjected to the treatment of felons, and to the inflictions suffered by thieves and murderers. He begged it to be understood that he was here stating merely the petition, vouching not in any degree for its truth, nor saying (because not knowing) how far it might or might not be exaggerated. The petition went on to state that Mr. O'Connor, had been compelled to lie on an iron bedstead, and to perform various menial offices, some of them of a disgusting nature, which were specified—that he was not allowed to receive visits from his friends—that he was denied the accommodation of a wooden bench to sit on, and was obliged to sit upon the cold stone, although suffering under disease; and that the effect, of this hard usage had been greatly to injure his health. The petition went on to give various instances of persons, who in former times had been convicted of similar offences, but who had not been subjected to like treatment, and complained of the hardship and injustice of thus varying the punishment for the same offences. The prayer of the petition was, that their Lordships would institute an inquiry into the case with a view to Mr. O'Connor's removal from the felons' to the debtors' side of the prison. As far as respected the inquiry, it was within their Lordships' power; but as to the other part of the prayer, he doubted much if they could interfere. This, however, he must say, that if there were any truth whatever in these statements, and others of the same kind which had lately come before the
918Lord Brougham
922"I am directed by the Marquess of Normanby to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 29th May, respecting Mr. F. O'Connor, and to inform you that his Lordship sees no objection to a suitable room being supplied Mr. O'Connor in another part of the prison, provided it can be done agreeably with the arrangements of the law respecting debtors, who are to form a separate class. I am also, with reference to the fifteenth rule, desired to refer you to the tenth section of the 4th George 4th, which enables one or more justices, under special circumstances, to allow a prisoner to receive food and clothes beyond the first allowance, and to recommend you to allow Mr. O'Connor to have any reasonable allowance in these particulars."921920919 was not then prepared to enter into all the subjects alluded to by the noble and learned Lord. He wished, however, to say a few words with regard to the case of
922"I am directed by the Marquess of Normanby to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 29th May, respecting Mr. F. O'Connor, and to inform you that his Lordship sees no objection to a suitable room being supplied Mr. O'Connor in another part of the prison, provided it can be done agreeably with the arrangements of the law respecting debtors, who are to form a separate class. I am also, with reference to the fifteenth rule, desired to refer you to the tenth section of the 4th George 4th, which enables one or more justices, under special circumstances, to allow a prisoner to receive food and clothes beyond the first allowance, and to recommend you to allow Mr. O'Connor to have any reasonable allowance in these particulars."921920919The Marquess of Normanby
 thought, one part of the noble Lord's statement was quite satisfactory, namely, that directions had been given to enquire into the truth of these allegations. Very opposite accounts had been given, and he had no doubt from the character of the Gentleman employed, there would be some light thrown upon the subject. The postponement of the power intended to be conferred by the clause would not have the effect of postponing the indulgence which he understood had been already shown to that gentleman.Lord Brougham
 thought, the best thing that could be done would be to refer the bill to a Select Committee. He thought when gentlemen were guilty of a violation of the law, they ought to be punished with as much, if not more severity than the humbler classes. They ought to be very cautious in making any changes in the great principle of prison discipline, because a man might say he did not care for committing an offence, as his health was weakly, and when sent to prison he would receive indulgencies. In his opinion, the best way to deal with offences was to make the punishment certain, and of that degree of severity that it would deter persons from violating the law.The Duke of Richmond
 had never objected to lecturers going about the country, but what he objected to was their stating what was perfectly untrue, in order to excite the labourers against their employers. He did not think it came very well from the manufacturers, who themselves employed large bodies of artisans and workmen, to be inflaming the feelings and passions of the working classes against their masters.The Duke of Richmond
 would take that opportunity of asking his noble Friend what the terms of the motion were which he intended to propose. It, in his opinion, would be convenient if their lordships were put in possession of the proposition which they were to be called upon to negative.The Duke of Richmond
 could assure his noble Friend that the more deliberation the Corn-laws received in that House, the more he should be satisfied, for he only wanted that the public should know the real truth of the case. Their Lordships were aware that persons were sent about the country to tell those things which were not true, and were trying to raise an ill feeling between the labourers, their employers, and landlords. Of course he did not mean to accuse his noble Friend of being a party to the sending abroad of those emissaries. He had merely thought it necessary to know the terms of the motion to be proposed by his noble Friend; and hecon idered it would be negatived as a matter of course, because he knew his noble Friend would bring forward no motion inconsistent with the many pamphlets he had published on the subject. He hoped that his noble Friend would not only bring forward his motion, but would give the House by a vote an opportunity of seeing how many of their Lordships were hostile, as he called it, to the interests of the country.The Duke of Richmond
Anti-Corn-law Circular, said, that if the noble Lord looked at the Anti-Corn-law Circular,The Earl of Warwick
 agreed to the principle, as proposed by the noble Marquess, as by it the Judge would be enabled, when passing sentence on the prisoners, to state the class in which he should be confined.The Earl of Devon
 said, that no instructions had been given to the Governor-general on the subject. The despatch transmitted to him merely contained the opinion of the Law-officers of the Crown with respect to the legality of the proceeding. No despatch had since been received on the subject.Viscount Melbourne
 said, that the Government had received no account of any ordinance on the subject.Viscount Melbourne
 said, that the Government had received no communication on the subject.Viscount Melbourne
915 said, as his noble Friend had made a speech, it would not be out of order in him to do so also. His noble Friend wanted to know the terms of
915Earl Fitzwilliam
 said, he did not think the Chamber of Commerce was responsible for the opinions of every individual of the body.—Petitions laid on the table.Earl Fitzwilliam
 had seen the paper in question, but any body who took in a newspaper was not to be held responsible for its language; indeed there was hardly any newspaper that did not contain something reprehensible. He thought it was a very indecent mode of describing a most respectable class, who were certainly equally respectable with the fund-owners, the mill-owners, or any other owners.Earl Fitzwilliam
 quite agreed with the noble Earl, that the more the subject was discussed and considered the better, and, therefore, he did not think that the noble Duke (Richmond) had any right to find fault with those persons who were going about the country. He thought that both lecturers and anti-lecturers were useful in order that the thinking part of the population might be brought to consider the subject. He believed it was one which a great number of persons had very little studied, and he was bound to express his belief that even amongst the highest ranks, not even excepting Members of their Lordships' House, the subject had been very little considered. These were the grounds which induced him to bring forward certain points connected with the subject incidentally.Earl Fitzwilliam
954"Mr. Feargus O'Connor is not subjected to any indignities of the person. He does not take his chamber utensil up stairs, or bring it down to clean it out. He does not scour out his room. He does not perform any menial office. He has had sheets offered him to sleep in, and he refused them. He occupies tonight, and will continue to occupy, the best room on the felons' side. He has tea and sugar, without restriction as to quantity, twice a day. He has animal food at dinner, and two glasses of wine. He is shaved daily, and has clean linen and towels when he wishes. There are no beds but those of iron stock and flock beds, of which flock beds he has four. He has a pillow, chair and table. He eats, and has eaten, his meals in his ward by himself, the first day excepted. He has a large yard to exercise in. He has a bed-room and large hospital to himself. He wears his own clothes. He has not had any newspapers. He has not written or received any letters without the inspection of the governor." would take this opportunity of giving some further explanation upon the subject of Mr. O'Connor's imprisonment, in reference to which he had been almost in daily communication with the visiting magistrates of York Castle. He had received in reply to the various questions he had addressed to them a letter from Mr. Barnard Hague, chairman of the visiting magistrates, dated June 1, from which he would read the following extract—
954"Mr. Feargus O'Connor is not subjected to any indignities of the person. He does not take his chamber utensil up stairs, or bring it down to clean it out. He does not scour out his room. He does not perform any menial office. He has had sheets offered him to sleep in, and he refused them. He occupies tonight, and will continue to occupy, the best room on the felons' side. He has tea and sugar, without restriction as to quantity, twice a day. He has animal food at dinner, and two glasses of wine. He is shaved daily, and has clean linen and towels when he wishes. There are no beds but those of iron stock and flock beds, of which flock beds he has four. He has a pillow, chair and table. He eats, and has eaten, his meals in his ward by himself, the first day excepted. He has a large yard to exercise in. He has a bed-room and large hospital to himself. He wears his own clothes. He has not had any newspapers. He has not written or received any letters without the inspection of the governor."The Marquess of Normanby
 thought his noble Friend was very right to make further inquiry. He had seen quite enough of statements and counterstatements to induce him to suspend his opinion until further inquiry should be made upon the subject. Without meaning any disrespect whatever to the magistrates themselves who had given those answers, he thought it would be safer to trust to an impartial inquiry which, it appeared, was about to be instituted.Lord Brougham
 presented a petition signed by the Chairman of a public meeting which took place at Leeds, praying for a free pardon for Feargus O'Connor in consideration of the sufferings he had endured since his imprisonment in York Castle.Lord Denman
 suggested to the noble Earl whether, under circumstances so extraordinary, it would not be more decorous to postpone the subject, more especially as all the precedents were in favour of that course?The Marquess of Londonderry,
d.s.1018101710161015 regarded this as a question of all others which ought to be considered apart from party bias, from all selfish and narrow interests, and to be decided only with a view to the general welfare of the community at large. Yet on both sides many mistakes and misapprehensions seemed to prevail with reference to it. On the one hand the present restrictive system was attributed entirely to the cupidity of the landlords, and represented as seriously injurious to all other classes, while the same reasoners at another time most inconsistently ridiculed the agricultural body for adhering to a system which must be injurious to their own interests. Again, he very much doubted whether, if there were a free trade in corn, the labouring population of this country would derive the benefit of a proportional reduction in the price of bread. That was another fallacy which pervaded the speeches, of many corn-law repealers. Although wages might not fall with the price of corn in abundant
d.s.1018101710161015The Earl of Rosebery
1021s.l.l.1020l.s.s.s.s.1019et hoc genus omne. fully concurred in the principles of protection laid down by his noble Friend who had just addressed the House; but that principle he conceived to be entirely at issue with the doctrines of the noble Earl who opened the debate, and who had so framed his motion as to catch all the loose fish, all the modifiers, 1021s.l.l.1020l.s.s.s.s.1019et hoc genus omne.The Earl of Falmouth
 explained. What he had said was, that a person who lived in the atmosphere of Bergara conventions, and who had spent his time in Spain, was not such an authority upon this question, as those who in this country had devoted their attention to the working of this measure.The Earl of Falmouth
 began by observing, that he proposed to answer his noble Friend's (Lord Ashburton) arguments without having the advantage of hearing a great many of them, for his noble and learned Friend turned his back on his side of the House, and addressed all his observations to those silting opposite. He did hear his noble Friend, however, say that they should not change the present, system without evidence of its ill effects, and yet when a noble and learned Friend below him (Lord Brougham) last year asked simply for inquiry, his motion was scouted. The noble Lord said, also, that he was unwilling to set up one interest against another; yet he found the noble Lord was vice-president of a society for the protection of agriculture, which expressly opposed the agricultural to the manufacturing interest. This society stated, that the owners of land possessed property to the amount of three thousand millions, whereas the manufacturers were worth only two hundred and sixty millions.The Earl of Radnor
103610351034: These statements were put forward under the sanction of his noble Friend's name. If wheat was natu-
103610351034Lord Radnor
1040Falmouth1039 said, he must even at that late hour, (a quarter to two o'clock), say a few words. It was said by the noble Duke (Richmond) that no inquiry was needed; yet, had the subtle speech of the noble Baron (Ashburton) not touched the facts of the noble Earl, the mover of the question? Said the noble Duke, "You assert, and I deny—and what's the conclusion?" "Therefore I am right?" Ought not the conclusion to be "Therefore we should inquire?" Had not last year's evidence been tendered at the bar? Had it not been refused? After that, whose fault was it that the motion was vague? Would their Lordships allow him shortly to ask what they intended to do? Were they about to say that they would not consider the question? If they acceded to this motion, they would give the coun-
1040Falmouth1039Lord Brougham
 said, that as this was a subject of great importance, he wished to know from the noble Earl, whether he really meant to press the bill in question. By a letter which he had received that morning from Edinburgh, he was informed, that there was a sort of understanding between an hon. Friend of the noble Earl and an eminent clergyman of the Church of Scotland, to the effect, that the bill in question should not be pressed, if a majority of the Assembly of the Church of Scotland decided against it. Now, a majority of the Assembly had, by vote, come to the resolution that the bill in question was inconsistent with the principles of the Presbyterian Church, and, therefore, he felt bound to ask the noble Earl whether he really meant to press the bill?The Marquess of Breadalbane
: I have never attended this society, and can't be considered responsible for their calculations.Lord Ashburton
1033103210311030s.1029 said, he should not trouble their Lordships to any great extent at that late hour; but, from the extreme importance of the subject, and from the view taken of the question by her Majesty's Ministers, he could not refrain from expressing his opinion. The question was in itself, however, perhaps the most momentous that could arise in this country, and it was made of additional importance by the conduct of her Majesty's Government. With the complicated relations that prevailed in this country—more complicated than any where else—it was absurd to speak of any one interest as being able to do without the other—as well might a man try to find out which limb he could do without. Therefore, if any one "interest" could satisfactorily show that the Corn-laws injured them, that was sufficient reason for repealing them. He, however, did not believe that to be the case. He denied that the present Corn-laws gave the landlords a private interest adverse to the interests of the other classes. Having watched the course of events with great anxiety and care, he did most conscientiously say, that in the present state of affairs, he saw nothing in the existing law that called for alteration; and he was quite sure that the most imprudent and most impolitic course which their Lordships could take would be to do that which he was sorry to see her Majesty's Government were ready to do,
1033103210311030s.1029Lord Ashburton
10381037 would at that late hour make but a few observations,
10381037The Duke of Richmond
1014s.s.1013s.s.s. was anxious to say a few words on the subject, and to deny that the object of the Corn-laws had ever been to raise the price of corn. The act of 1815, to which the noble Lord had so particularly referred, had not that object. The object of that act was to protect and extend agriculture, and render the country independent of foreign supplies. The whole successive acts of the Legislature, from the reign of Charles 2nd down to the present moment had had the same object. The act of 1815 certainly placed a higher import duty than any former act, but those who supported it never entertained the vain expectation, still less did they instruct their tenants to expect that the price of wheat would be maintained at 801014s.s.1013s.s.s.Lord Western
 postponed until Tuesday next the second reading of the bill relating to the admission of ministers to benefices in. Scotland.The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, he would Be quite ready to debate the bill with the noble Marquess on Tuesday. He had already given notice of the second reading for that day, and he was no party to any understanding with any one on the subject.The Earl of Aberdeen
102810271026d.s.s.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.l.l.l.1025l.l,;l.d.s.d.s.1024s.s.10231022 felt much obliged to the noble Earl for repeating what he had just now said. Although he was free to admit, that what he might say would prove the truth of that which the noble Earl had asserted, as to his unfitness to form a correct opinion on such a subject, and as to his being a person to whom a petition on such a question ought not to be entrusted from Liverpool; yet, conscious as he was of his incapacity, he assured their Lordships he did not rise influenced by the presumption that he could add anything to the weight of what had fallen from the noble Earl in support of his motion, nor with the hope that he could aid by any influence of his own, the very powerful and convincing speech which the noble Earl had addressed to their Lordships, for the purpose of inducing them to reconsider the laws regulating the importation of corn. But this, in his opinion, was a question increasing in every year in its magnitude and importance; and as it was in this year forced with greater energy on their Lord-
102810271026d.s.s.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.l.l.l.1025l.l,;l.d.s.d.s.1024s.s.10231022The Earl of Clarendon
 rose to repel the very uncourteous allusion made to him by the noble Earl, when his unfitness had been spoken of by the noble Lord. The noble Earl had alluded to him when the noble Earl said, that a person occupied in Bergara conventions, and one who had passed his time in Spain, was not one to whose opinions much attention ought to be paid. This not very courteous allusion to himself justified him in making at least a few remarks to their Lordships.The Earl of Clarendon
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, to express our horror and indignation at the late atrocious and treasonable attempt against her Majesty's sacred person, and our heartfelt congratulations to her Majesty and the country, on her Majesty's happy preservation from so great a danger, to express our deep concern at there having been found within her Majesty's dominions a person capable of so flagitious an act, and that we make it our earnest prayer to Almighty God, that as he has preserved to us the blessings that we enjoy under her Majesty's just and mild government, be will continue to watch over a life so justly dear to us."990 said, My Lords, your Lordships have all, doubtless, heard, with that deep sorrow and concern, with that mingled surprise, horror, and indignation which such an event is calculated to produce, of that with which it is now my duty formally and officially to acquaint you—that a desperate attempt on her Majesty's life was made yesterday evening, as she was proceeding from the palace to the park. Two pistols were fired at her in the most determined and most desperate manner, at no great distance from her person, and it is only matter of wonder that the event was not more unfortunate and melancholy. My Lords, on all former occasions of a similar nature, of which, unfortunately, there are in the recent history of our country but too many examples, it has always been the custom of your Lordships to address the Throne to express the horror which you feel at the attempt which has been made, and to congratulate the Sovereign on the happy and fortunate escape which has taken place. Upon all former occasions such are the precedents; and your Lordships, therefore, I am sure, will not be in the least surprised, that I should seize the earliest opportunity of your Lordships' meeting—without any notice—to call upon your Lordships to follow on this occasion, the usual course. At the same time, I feel that it is unnecessary for me, and that it would be, in some degree, improper to expatiate any further on the circumstances, or upon what might have been the consequences of the unfortunate event which has taken place. This matter is now in course of investigation; it must be matter of judicial inquiry, and under such circumstances, it would ill become either me to address the House, or your Lordships to hear, any observations which could, in the slightest degree, interfere with the calm, the deliberate, the dignified, and impartial course of public
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, to express our horror and indignation at the late atrocious and treasonable attempt against her Majesty's sacred person, and our heartfelt congratulations to her Majesty and the country, on her Majesty's happy preservation from so great a danger, to express our deep concern at there having been found within her Majesty's dominions a person capable of so flagitious an act, and that we make it our earnest prayer to Almighty God, that as he has preserved to us the blessings that we enjoy under her Majesty's just and mild government, be will continue to watch over a life so justly dear to us."990Viscount Melbourne
10431042ipse dixits.s.s.1041 was well aware that even at an earlier hour of the evening, when their Lordships' attention was less exhausted than at present, it would be difficult for him to render such a subject as this either sufficiently attractive or full enough of practical interest, to entitle him to their Lordships' indulgence. Yet, considering the position which he occupied, the part he had before taken, the comments which had been made upon what he had said, and the interest felt in the subject, it was impossible for him to allow the question to go to a division without stating some of the grounds upon which he intended to vote against it. Indeed, upon the motion itself as presented to the House by his noble Friend, he (Lord Melbourne) had very little difficulty. For the noble Earl proposed that "it was expedient" to enter into an enquiry upon this subject. Now, he (Lord Melbourne) was distinctly of opinion that it was "inexpedient." Yet he would guard himself against being supposed to pledge himself to maintain the existing duties. He had never so pledged himself, nor did he mean to do so. This was no question of stubborn principle from which he could safely pledge himself not to swerve:—for considerations of various kinds of economy or of policy might arise not only to justify, but to render necessary the adoption of a different course. Yet, under present circumstances, he did not think it wise for Parliament to stir the question as they would stir it, if they adopted the motion of his noble Friend. But his noble Friend had said that all he asked for was inquiry,
10431042ipse dixits.s.s.1041Viscount Melbourne
 was quite ready to move the order of the day, but so many whispers had come to his ears that he rather expected that there would have been some proposition to him to postpone the consideration of the subject. He understood some noble Lords were of opinion that it would be more complimentary, and decorous to her Majesty not to proceed under existing circumstances to any other business, after agreeing to the Address. He confessed that, individually he thought they would be paying her Majesty a very bad compliment in supposing that she would desire that any important business should be postponed.Earl Fitzwilliam
1012s.s.s.s.a priori,d.s.s.s.s.1011No, no.No, no.s.s.1010s.s.s.s.Hear, hear100910081007s.s.s.s.1006RichmondAshburton." I really do not know anything that can be done for the agriculturists, but to tell them honestly, that no parliamentary relief is possible. I am not aware of anything that can be done for agriculture by Parliament.""Can your Lordship suggest any legislative measure, unconnected with the currency, by which the interests of the agriculturists can be relieved, without prejudice to the other interests of the community."10051004s.s.s.s.s.s.1003s.s.s.s.10021001s.s.s.s.s.s.1000s.s.s.999998" I think, the present duty is too high (that was in April, 1836, when the prices and the duties were correspondingly high), for this reason, that I think it gives a fictitious value to land. It gives the farmers an expectation of something to come to their relief, which can never arrive, and therefore, it gives land a fictitious value."Noble Lord"That is a subject which I am not able to grapple with; but as far as I could form a judgment I was pleased with the scheme before it was put in action; but now it has been of no benefit to the farmer, for the last three years, I confess I should have preferred a moderate fixed duty, but that is a subject into which I shall not enter.""You have spoken of some of the evils of the Corn-laws of 1815, are you well satisfied with the present Corn-law of 1828?"997s."Then, the Corn-law having promised the price of 80s.l."In your opinion, did the Corn-law of 1815 deceive both the landlord and the tenant?—It did. I believe, that the calculation which they made at that time was almost universally 4l.Hear, hear!a laughs."Money rents were exacted from them. They all conceived, that they were to have 80s."What is the reason of the farmers having all gone away?"996"Before any foreign corn can be introduced prices may run up so high as to be prejudicial to the farmers, because, in 1831, they could not grow so much wheat as would pay their rent. This is prejudicial to those who paid money-rent, because I am sure, that if they had not believed the Corn-laws, they would not have paid so much money-rent.""I think, by the present working of the Corn-laws, that prices may run too high, in years of scarcity, for the interests of the farmers."" Because it led those who took farms at money-rents to give much higher rents than otherwise they would have done.""Then, how has the Corn-law disappointed the expectations of the farmers?"995s.s."Yes, under the expectation that the price of wheat would be maintained at something like what the Corn-law proposed."" Were the money-rents fixed under the operation Of the law of 1815?"s.s.s.994s.sGazettes.s.Gazette,s.s.s.s.993s.s.Gazette.992 really wished only to do that which was most satisfactory to the great mass of their Lordships, and he thought that the general feeling was that he ought not to postpone the subject. His own opinion was, that it would be best to proceed. He gathered, too, that it was the wish of the House that he should at once proceed with the motion of which he had given notice, and he was at all times desirous to comply with that wish, when to do so was in his power and it involved no sacrifice of principle. He was well aware that in approaching this subject, and in bringing it under their Lordships' consideration, he was mooting a question—he would not presume to say upon which their Lordships had made up their minds, although such an assertion had been made, but upon which he thought he might say that much prejudice existed, or on which at least very strong opinions were entertained in a direction opposed to the conclusion which he advocated. But he trusted that upon this occasion, as upon all others, their Lordships would not so much consider the individual who
1012s.s.s.s.a priori,d.s.s.s.s.1011No, no.No, no.s.s.1010s.s.s.s.Hear, hear100910081007s.s.s.s.1006RichmondAshburton." I really do not know anything that can be done for the agriculturists, but to tell them honestly, that no parliamentary relief is possible. I am not aware of anything that can be done for agriculture by Parliament.""Can your Lordship suggest any legislative measure, unconnected with the currency, by which the interests of the agriculturists can be relieved, without prejudice to the other interests of the community."10051004s.s.s.s.s.s.1003s.s.s.s.10021001s.s.s.s.s.s.1000s.s.s.999998" I think, the present duty is too high (that was in April, 1836, when the prices and the duties were correspondingly high), for this reason, that I think it gives a fictitious value to land. It gives the farmers an expectation of something to come to their relief, which can never arrive, and therefore, it gives land a fictitious value."Noble Lord"That is a subject which I am not able to grapple with; but as far as I could form a judgment I was pleased with the scheme before it was put in action; but now it has been of no benefit to the farmer, for the last three years, I confess I should have preferred a moderate fixed duty, but that is a subject into which I shall not enter.""You have spoken of some of the evils of the Corn-laws of 1815, are you well satisfied with the present Corn-law of 1828?"997s."Then, the Corn-law having promised the price of 80s.l."In your opinion, did the Corn-law of 1815 deceive both the landlord and the tenant?—It did. I believe, that the calculation which they made at that time was almost universally 4l.Hear, hear!a laughs."Money rents were exacted from them. They all conceived, that they were to have 80s."What is the reason of the farmers having all gone away?"996"Before any foreign corn can be introduced prices may run up so high as to be prejudicial to the farmers, because, in 1831, they could not grow so much wheat as would pay their rent. This is prejudicial to those who paid money-rent, because I am sure, that if they had not believed the Corn-laws, they would not have paid so much money-rent.""I think, by the present working of the Corn-laws, that prices may run too high, in years of scarcity, for the interests of the farmers."" Because it led those who took farms at money-rents to give much higher rents than otherwise they would have done.""Then, how has the Corn-law disappointed the expectations of the farmers?"995s.s."Yes, under the expectation that the price of wheat would be maintained at something like what the Corn-law proposed."" Were the money-rents fixed under the operation Of the law of 1815?"s.s.s.994s.sGazettes.s.Gazette,s.s.s.s.993s.s.Gazette.992Earl Fitzwilliam
 wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to have a day of public thanksgiving, in consequence of her Majesty's recent escape from assassination? He was old enough to remember, that in the case of George 3rd, such a proceeding had been adopted, and he thought it would be only respectful to her Majesty to follow that precedent, in doing which no one would more heartily join than himself.Lord Rolle
 bore testimony to the evil and demoralising effects of Sunday traffic on canals. Boys attached to boats upon canals were polluted from the earliest age, and, owing to their being occupied on Sundays, there was no opportunity or chance of reclaiming them. A meeting had already been held in Staffordshire upon the subject, and the clergy were ready to lend their assistance in carrying into effect such steps as it might be deemed advisable to adopt. What they suggested was, that chaplains should be stationed along the lines of the canals.The Bishop of Lichfield
 agreed with the rev. Prelate, that the Sunday traffic upon canals had a very demoralizing effect upon the adjoining population. He had only to observe that the subject was under his consideration, but he could not then pledge himself to any of the remedies that had been suggested.The Marquess of Normanby
1107 said, that as the question had been asked whether there were to be two taxing bodies or one, he would answer it at the outset by saying, that if a smaller taxing power were to be vested in the municipal bodies, he should have been more content with the measure. The noble Marquess had stated that his security for the conduct of these bodies was, that they would have to be re-elected annually, and that that was tantamount to responsibility. He would ask noble Lords
1107The Marquess of Westmeath
1108 said, that the bill only affected five towns in Ireland which were counties of towns. As, however, the object proposed to be affected by the Municipal Bill was the reform of the corporations in Ireland, he did not see the necessity of having the Municipal Bill accompanied by the Grand Jury Cess Bill. There was one thing in the bill which was well worthy the notice of their Lordships—namely, that it proposed to transfer the power now vested in the grand juries to the municipal bodies, and yet at the same time it deprived those bodies of the power of paving their own towns. Government had not the confidence in those bodies to intrust them with the power of paving the towns, and yet it deprived the grand juries of the power over the roads to vest it in them. If they had confidence in these bodies to vest them with the macadamization, why not intrust them with the paving of their towns? These observations applied to Limerick, and to Drogheda. Here, then, were two towns with respect to which the bill was neither clear nor intelligible. Surely, then, it would be better
1108The Earl of Wicklow
 said, that as he thought the House should not begin legislation by giving a taxing power to town councils, and then exhibit a distrust of those councils; on that ground, approving as he did of the taxing and other clauses of this bill, he should give his vote in favour of the motion for now going into Committee, and against the amendment moved by his noble and learned Friend opposite (Lord Lyndhurst).Lord Brougham
1106s.s.s. wondered that the noble and learned Lord objected to clauses in the present bill, after having co-operated in framing clauses to a similar effect in a former measure. He had been appealed to as to his local knowledge, and he was aware that it would be most important and imperative to free the agricultural districts adjacent to corporate towns from the unnecessary amount of taxation to which they had for many years been subjected, at the rate of 101106s.s.s.The Marquess of Lansdowne
1101, according to notice, presented petitions from the Staffordshire and Worcestershire Canal Company, and from the parishes on the line of the canal, in all about twenty, praying for a law to prohibit the carriage of goods on canals and railways on Sundays. The noble Lord said, he hoped the present Session would not pass over without a measure on this subject being introduced. That measure ought to apply to railways as well as to canals, for it would be unfair to restrain canal companies from carrying goods on Sunday, if railway companies were to be at liberty to do so. He was not prepared to say that he himself would introduce any measure upon this subject, and he thought it was a question which ought to be taken
1101Lord Hatherton
, in moving that the House resolve itself into a Committee on the Grand Jury Cess (Ireland) Bill, said, that nearly all the objects to be attained by it had been embodied in the Irish Corporation Bill of 1838, and in the bill of last year as amended by their Lordships. The main object of the bill was, to enable the town councils to exercise the same jurisdiction within the towns and boundaries attached to those towns as was formerly exercised by grand juries.Viscount Duncannon
1105l.l.l.l.110411031102 was desirous of calling their Lordships' attention to the nature of this bill, being of opinion that it ought not to proceed any further. In order to render it intelligible, it would be necessary to refer to the bills which had been introduced on the subject of municipal corpora-
1105l.l.l.l.110411031102Lord Lyndhurst
 admitted the propriety of the precedent alluded to, and was sure their Lordships all felt with the noble Lord opposite, that it ought to be followed on the present occasion. In answer to the noble Lord's question, he begged to state that it decidedly was the intention of the Government to have a day of religious observance.Viscount Melbourne
1112 said, the postponement of the present bill until the measure just now disposed of, came up from the other House of Parliament, had been urged by noble Lords opposite, and not by his side of the House. He had only acquiesced in the postponement in compliance with the wish expressed by noble Lords opposite. At the same time, he must say, that the Government was not in the slight-
1112Viscount Melbourne
1113 said, he must make an observation, in consequence of what had fallen from the noble Viscount. The noble Viscount had said, that this was an attempt on his part to postpone the bill beyond the day fixed for its consideration. Now, he had understood when this bill was last spoken of, that the noble Viscount postponed it, as the other bill had not yet come up, and could not come up for a certain period of time. He thought, also, the noble Marquess opposite had stated, at an early period of this Session, that the other bill just now disposed of was necessary to relieve the grievances which would exist under this bill in certain districts. The noble Viscount said, the object of the now proposed postponement was to defeat this bill. Now, he (the Duke of Wellington) wanted to know if there was any intention on the part of the noble Viscount to carry it, because, if so, nothing would have been easier than last week for the Government to have adopted the proposition made by an hon. Friend of his, that the bill just rejected should be divided into two bills. Thus all inconvenience would have been avoided, and the consideration of the enactments of this bill which every body admitted must become law, might have now proceeded. He said, that they had the power to carry them. Why did they not
1113The Duke of Wellington
1111 said, it had been agreed, that this bill should not proceed until their Lordships had had an opportunity of becoming acquainted with the contents of the bill which their Lordships had just disposed of. The object of that bill was to fix the boundaries of cer-
1111The Duke of Wellington
"I am deeply sensible of the mercy of Divine Providence, to whose continued protection I humbly commend myself; and I trust, that under all trials, I shall find the same consolation and support, which I now derive from, the loyal and affectionate attachment of my Parliament and my people.""It is with heartfelt satisfaction, that I receive upon the present occasion this Address from both my houses of Parliament.1100: My Lords, I have
"I am deeply sensible of the mercy of Divine Providence, to whose continued protection I humbly commend myself; and I trust, that under all trials, I shall find the same consolation and support, which I now derive from, the loyal and affectionate attachment of my Parliament and my people.""It is with heartfelt satisfaction, that I receive upon the present occasion this Address from both my houses of Parliament.1100The Lord Chancellor
 then put the question. The question was, "That the House resolve itself into a Committee;" since which it had been moved, "that the House resolve itself into Committee on Friday next."The Lord Chancellor
1168 said, a petition having been presented praying for the dismissal of her Majesty's Ministers, he felt it to be his duty, as it was the duty of any other Member of that House, to demand of Ministers upon what system or principle the Government of the country was at present conducted? The situation of the Government was unexampled in the history of the country. At no former time had he seen any instance of a Government sustaining so many defeats as the present Government had done in the last few weeks, and yet remaining in office. They had sustained no less than six decided defeats, in so many pitched battles. When he recalled these facts, and when he further recollected that last year the noble Viscount had come down to the House and declared that it was not possible for him to carry on the Government of the country when he had a majority of five, he could not avoid asking, how could the noble Viscount now hope to carry on the Government, when, upon two late occasions, there were majorities of three and eleven against Ministers? Why, under these circumstances, did the noble Viscount now continue at the head of the Government, when such a proceeding was directly contrary to what he had stated on the occasion to which he (the Marquess of Londonderry) had referred? Let the noble Viscount consider for a moment the extraordinary situation in which he stood in that House when the last most important discussion took place a few evenings since. Their Lordships saw the noble Viscount on that occasion deserted by all his colleagues. Yes; not one of them stood by him. Even the first Commissioner of Woods and Forests deserted the noble Viscount "at his utmost need." Not one of his colleagues stood by him. What, then, was the influence of Government? Where did it centre? What was the country to look to? Were they to look to a divided cabinet? Or was their attention to be directed to the noble Viscount? The present, he repeated, was a crisis unexampled in the history of the
1168The Marquess of Londonderry
 said, he certainly did not expect, when he put his question, that the noble Viscount could or would give any explanation of the unfortunate situation in which the Government was at present placed. He, however, had on former occasions congratulated the noble Viscount on his various defeats; and, as long as he had the honour of holding a seat in that Assembly, he should not fail to congratulate the noble Viscount on every new defeat which he might happen to sustain.The Marquess of Londonderry
 said, the noble Earl could not expect him to enter into a statement of the general affairs of the country, and of the general proceedings of the Government, on the present occasion, when, in fact, scarcely any thing bearing the semblance of a definite question had been put by the noble Earl.Viscount Melbourne
12391238 said, that the noble Viscount did not often address long speeches to their Lordships; but, on the contrary, generally contrived to occupy but a very short time with what he said, and to condense a very great deal of matter into a very small space. That evening, however, the noble Viscount had contrived to make a speech of about his usual length, but without saying anything whatever. The noble Viscount said, that their Lordships ought not to do anything until they could pass a bill which would be satisfactory to all parties. Now, he defied the ingenuity of man to frame such a bill as would satisfy both parties. If they were not to legislate for the purpose of establishing the peace of Scotland until they could pass a measure which would be satisfactory to all parties, the Church of Scotland would be allowed to totter to its fall without a hand being stretched out for its support. In his opinion, it was the duty of Government to have brought in a bill, and have left parties to obey it. He certainly had much rather that the law should be obeyed willingly, but it was better that the law should be settled by Parliament, and that all parties should be forced to comply with it, than that the present state of things should continue. The moment that the decision of that House was given in the Auchterarder case it was the duty of the Government to take up the question, and introduce some legislative measure on the subject. Instead of that, the Government went on hesitat-
12391238The Earl of Haddington
12411240 said, that considering that out of the judgment which he and his noble and learned Friend had pronounced, affirming the decision of the Court of Session, had mainly arisen many of these unfortunate circumstances, and as there was a probability, nay almost a certainty, that their Lordships would be applied to again to act in their judicial capacity, he feared that if he gave any opinion on the construction of Acts of Parliament and of clerical acts, he should be prejudging what he might soon be called upon to decide judicially. The unhappy state of excitement which prevailed in Scotland upon this subject it was hardly possible to exaggerate by any description; and if he reminded their Lordships of two delusions which prevailed on matters connected with the bill, and the decision of that House upon the general question, he should not only greatly strengthen the reason he had given for abstaining from entering into this debate, but do his endeavour at least, in part, to allay that irritation. Would it be believed that this bill was held up to the people of Scotland as an encroachment on the rights of the Church, and an attempt to diminish her
12411240Lord Brougham
122312221221 said, that hitherto, when this subject was introduced upon the presentation of petitions, he had abstained from delivering his sentiments upon it, not that he did not think that incidental conversations upon many subjects might be attended with very useful effects, but because he had felt that upon this particular subject it might have been not only inconvenient but detrimental to have addressed the House. He had refrained from delivering his sentiments upon these occasions, because not being a member of the Church of Scotland, he apprehended he might have risen to address their Lordships on a question which he did not perfectly understand. On the present occasion, however, he considered it impossible for any one who had ever taken a part, however humble, in the debates of that House, not to state his sentiments upon one of the most momentous questions that affected the country to which he particularly belonged. He was the more encouraged to take this course by the circumstance, that although he was an avowed and attached member of the Church of England, he was nevertheless one of those who thought that the Presbyterian religion was as much a branch of the Christian Church as the religion which he himself professed; and although that might be considered by some individuals as somewhat latitudinarian, yet it was a principle which he sincerely professed, and which he thought most reconcileable with the true doctrines of Christianity and Protestantism. With these feelings he would proceed to offer his opinion of the noble Earl's bill. The noble Earl on a former occasion had stated, that a great difference existed between the Presbyterian Church in Scotland and in this country or in Ireland j that in Scotland it was an established church, and should obey the law by which it was established. But the Church of Scotland considered that in all matters exclusively spiritual their jurisdiction was above the jurisdiction of all
122312221221The Earl of Rosebery
122612251224 said, he was particularly anxious to express his opinion upon the measure, though it was his intention to support the amendment of the noble Marquess. Before entering upon the
122612251224The Earl of Camperdown
Second Book of Discipline1228" Primum eleguntur ministri a nostro collegio; ac datur illis scriptmæ locus in cujus interpretatione specemen suædexteritatis edant. Deinde examen habetur de prsecipuis doctrinæ capitibus: tandem coram nobis ut apud populum concionatur. Adsunt duo ex senatu. Si probatur eorum eruditio, eos senatui cum tes-timonio offerimus: in cujus arbitrio est non admittere, si minus idoneos judicent. Quod si recipiuntur (ut semper hactenus contigit) turn nomiua promulgamus coram populo ut si quod vitium latuerit, liberum sit singulis ante octo dies promulgare. Qui tacitis omnium suffrages probantur, eos commendamus Deo et ecclesiæ ""Ordinar and outward calling has twa parts, election and ordination. Election is the chusing out of a person or persons maist abile to the office that vaiks be the judgment of the elderschip, and consent of the congregation. In this ordinar election it is to be eschewit that na person be intrusit in ony of the offices of the Kirk, contrar to the will of the congregation to whom they are appointed, or without the voice of the elderschip."Second Book of Discipline1227 rose and said, he must apologise to the House for offering himself, so young a Member, to its notice on this important question, but being a Presbyterian, being an office-bearer in the Church of Scotland, and having borne some share in proposing for the consideration of the General Assembly, the same views, which the noble Earl below him (the Earl of Aberdeen) had embodied in the bill now on the table, he trusted their Lordships would give him some indulgence while he stated the reason why he should give his vote in favour of the motion of the noble Earl, and against the amendment of the noble Marquess opposite. He had waited in vain to hear any noble Lord address himself to the ground on which the noble Marquess had opposed the bill. The veto law was not now the question before their Lordships, but as he had some knowledge of the parties concerned in these divisions, and as he was well aware of the injurious effect which would be produced in Scotland, if no answer were given to the terms—the bold and open grounds which the noble Marquess opposite had taken in moving the present amendment, he would make the attempt. The ground the noble Marquess had taken was, that the learned Assembly of the Church of Scotland had clone no more than its bounden duty in the course it had pursued, and that if that body had acted otherwise, it would have deserted a fundamental and vital principle of the Church of Scotland. Now he must take the liberty of saying, that the principle of non-intrusion was not a fundamental principle of the Church of Scotland, in the sense of an absolute rejection, without reason or objection stated, which objection was to be judged of by the ecclesiastical autho-
Second Book of Discipline1228" Primum eleguntur ministri a nostro collegio; ac datur illis scriptmæ locus in cujus interpretatione specemen suædexteritatis edant. Deinde examen habetur de prsecipuis doctrinæ capitibus: tandem coram nobis ut apud populum concionatur. Adsunt duo ex senatu. Si probatur eorum eruditio, eos senatui cum tes-timonio offerimus: in cujus arbitrio est non admittere, si minus idoneos judicent. Quod si recipiuntur (ut semper hactenus contigit) turn nomiua promulgamus coram populo ut si quod vitium latuerit, liberum sit singulis ante octo dies promulgare. Qui tacitis omnium suffrages probantur, eos commendamus Deo et ecclesiæ ""Ordinar and outward calling has twa parts, election and ordination. Election is the chusing out of a person or persons maist abile to the office that vaiks be the judgment of the elderschip, and consent of the congregation. In this ordinar election it is to be eschewit that na person be intrusit in ony of the offices of the Kirk, contrar to the will of the congregation to whom they are appointed, or without the voice of the elderschip."Second Book of Discipline1227The Earl of Dalhousie
12201219"The power of the Church exclusively to refuse as incompetent any application made to them by different patrons to prevent presbyteries from supplying vacant parishes, because their doing so, would, in their opinion, be interfering with the power of ordination, and with the internal authority of the Church, with which they had nothing to do, and that if an individual were inducted who had no right to
12191218 said, holding the opinions which he did on this important question, and feeling deeply convinced that the people of Scotland would be as much dissatisfied with this bill as the General Assembly had been, he could not but ask their Lordships to pause before consenting to its second reading. He was ready to acknowledge the deep attachment of the noble Earl opposite to the Church of Scotland. He was also ready to bear his testimony to the singleness of purpose and the uprightness of the motives which had induced the noble Earl to bring forward this measure. But whilst he said this much, he must also add, that he congratulated the Church and the people of Scotland that the noble Earl had given his assent to the principle of non-intrusion, and to the principle of the independence of the Church of Scotland. He was glad the noble Earl had given his assent to those principles. But whilst the noble Lord asserted those principles as the fundamental principles of the Presbyterian establishment, yet in their application, as evinced in the bill before their Lordships, there was a wide difference between him and the noble Earl. It was on the principles he had alluded to that this measure
12201219"The power of the Church exclusively to refuse as incompetent any application made to them by different patrons to prevent presbyteries from supplying vacant parishes, because their doing so, would, in their opinion, be interfering with the power of ordination, and with the internal authority of the Church, with which they had nothing to do, and that if an individual were inducted who had no right to
12191218The Marquess of Breadalbane
1217"Havoc, and spoil, and ruin are my gain."Melbourne1216MelbourneMelbourne1215121412131212"Under cover of that they might have given full effect to the dissent of the communicants in every case."121112101209"Due regard being had to the whole circumstances of the parish, and the spiritual welfare and edification of the people.""In the event of the people entertaining any objection of any kind whatever to the individual so presented, or against his settlement in that particular parish, the Presbytery shall receive the said objection either then or at their next meeting, to be without delay considered or disposed of."120812071206 having presented several petitions from different parts of Scotland in favour of the Church of Scotland Bill, proceeded to say, that having occupied a very considerable portion of their Lordships' time, when, on a former evening, he laid on their Lordships' table the measure, the second reading of which he was then about to move, he did not feel that it was necessary for him to enter at length into all the details of the bill or to go minutely into the whole of the subject. There were, however, some points of consideration to which he was desirous to call the attention
1217"Havoc, and spoil, and ruin are my gain."Melbourne1216MelbourneMelbourne1215121412131212"Under cover of that they might have given full effect to the dissent of the communicants in every case."121112101209"Due regard being had to the whole circumstances of the parish, and the spiritual welfare and edification of the people.""In the event of the people entertaining any objection of any kind whatever to the individual so presented, or against his settlement in that particular parish, the Presbytery shall receive the said objection either then or at their next meeting, to be without delay considered or disposed of."120812071206The Earl of Aberdeen
, in reply, said he was aware the bill gave large powers to the Church, yet notwithstanding this he had previously given it as his opinion, that the Church had the power to enact a law of its own similar to the present bill for the purpose of preventing intrusion. He admitted, that the powers recognized by the bill were large, but denied, that it would give to the spiritual courts a positive or absolute veto, because it compelled them to assign reasons for their judgment. This he thought was a sufficient guard' against any abuse of the power that was allowed to remain with them.The Earl of Aberdeen
1237123612351234 said, that notwithstanding the address of his noble Friend (the Earl of Aberdeen) who opened the debate—notwithstanding the length to which his noble Friend's arguments had been carried—notwithstanding the very able and powerful address to which their Lordships had just listened, but which, however, was an address expatiating more on the general questions which were now agitating on this subject in Scotland, than directed to the bill which was before them and to the question of its second reading,
1237123612351234Viscount Melbourne
 had heard it stated elsewhere that the Court of Session had assumed a spiritual judisdiction on this question. Nothing could be more unfounded; their Lordships were all aware of the course taken in the settlement of a minister in a parish. The patron had the power to present; and, according to the act of the General Assembly of 1834, a power was bestowed on the heads of families to dissent from the presentation. When a majority of the heads of families had expressed their objection to the presentee, the act of the Presbytery was at once to reject him. All that the Court of Session and their Lordships' House had done, was to declare that in so acting, the Presbytery had acted in violation of the law. Any one who looked at the interlocutor of the court below could have no ground for supposing that the civil court had assumed the jurisdiction or interfered with the duties of the spiritual court. It was the Ecclesiastical Court that had invaded the right of the patron, and not the civil court which had invaded the rights of the Church. The bill before the House gave the Church two great powers. It put it in the power of the Church to exclude the patron entirely from the civil court, and placed his right of patronage at the mercy of any one who had the right to object to his presentee.The Lord Chancellor
?The corporations of England and Scotland have been long reformed; but so strong is the prejudice against Ireland, and the disposition of the British Legislature to refuse her justice, that even the Ministers of the Crown, who are favourably disposed towards us, cannot venture, with any hope of success, to bring in a bill to give Ireland the same corporate reform which is possessed by Scotland and England. A paltry and inferior measure is in tardy progress through the Legislature; should it succeed, it will be inadequate; should it fail, it will be an additional insult. In either case it will continue a grievance, rendering the union a mockery and not a reality."1293"To make a charge of this description was to charge all those who supported that individual with subornation of perjury.""I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment, as settled by law, within this realm; and I do solemnly swear, that I never will exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled, to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion or Protestant Government in the United Kingdom; and I do solemnly, in the presence of God, profess, testify, and declare, that I do make this declaration, and every part thereof, in the plain and ordinary sense of the words of this oath, without any evasion, equivocation, or mental reservation whatsoever."1292"The ecclesiastical state revenues of Ireland are applied to the Church of a comparatively
1292129112901289"That the Lord Aungier intended to plant and settle the same in the hands of the King's English and Protestant subjects, and for the better planting the same, and for the better
1289"Incorporates the land mentioned in the charter, under the names of the borough and town of Jamestown; the said town to be built, erected, and made in the most convenient place of the said lands, which shall be next adjoining the river, called the Shannon.""He shall bring, or cause to be brought, in or to the said island of Enniskillen, twenty persons, being English or Scotch, and chiefly artificers and mechanics, to make, erect, and construct a town; and the said William Cole was bound within the aforesaid four years, to procure the same persons to be incorporated into one body politic, to endure for ever, as is necessary for the defence and security of the town aforesaid, as well for the defence and protection of all our faithful liege subjects there inhabiting, as for repressing and restraining rebels and other our enemies whatsoever,""Granted towards the fortification of Trim, where all the fideles of the county of Meath were congregated, certain tolls," &c.1288"That no one of Irish blood or nation should be mayor, or exercise any other office
1288"Exonerated the commons of Kinsale (the town being in the marches, among the Irish enemies and English rebels) from attendance on wards, musters, and Parliaments."l"Grants 30l"A burgess holding a tenement to let the same to strangers, without permission of the sovereign, and forbids Irishmen to reside in the town without licence, and the registration of their names.""Grants licence to pursue the Irish enemies who carry off the settler's property, and to make reprisals from them.""A special privilege to treat and traffic with the Irish enemies.""That the town of Balygavoran, in the county of Kilkenny, in the march of that county, was situate far from the aid of the English, and surrounded by Irish enemies, who had lately burned it, granted to the burgesses and commons certain murage and pavage customs for a term of forty years."128712861285lll"No particular individual can be pointed out as exercising paramount influence in the corporation since the change of its members in 1811, arid the proceedings of the Sovereign and free burgesses are of a more popular character than those of any other corporate body which we have visited. The admission of the commonalty to some share in the corporate proceedings, and the perfect freedom from religious distinction between the free burgesses and the great majority of the community, are strongly calculated to prevent the dissension which too commonly prevails in other places between the corporation, so called, and the inhabitants."1284 said, there were circumstances connected with this measure which rendered it impossible for him to agree to go into Committee on it. Feeling as he did on the subject of this bill, he could not permit himself to consent that it should go through any further stage. He considered the bill as one pregnant with the most serious mischiefs to that Church to which it was his happiness and pride to belong; and, feeling that the bill must inevitably produce such effects, he considered it to be his duty to offer to it all the opposition in his power. He thought the fact, that the measure was calculated to injure the Protestant Church was too plain to require any arguments to convince those who considered the question coolly and deliberately in all its bearings. When he heard it asserted, that the Protestant Church could not, in any degree, be endangered by this measure, he begged leave to remind their Lordships that the bill would increase, greatly increase, the power of a very large body of persons in Ireland—of persons who were not only not members of the Church of England, but who were acknowledged to be fiercely opposed to that Church. The number of corporations that would be immediately affected by this bill was very large; but, large as it already was, that number might be still further increased, to a very great extent. Why, every town in Ireland having 3,000 inhabitants might, hereafter, under this bill, if the Minister of the Crown pleased, become the seat of a municipal corporation. A great number of corporate bodies might thus be created by the Minister under this law, bodies hostile to the Church, and who would, therefore, be anxious to use and exert all their newly-acquired powers to do injury to the Church. Let him remind their Lordships how this bill would act, by reference to what had occurred in the corporation of Tuam. That corporation
?The corporations of England and Scotland have been long reformed; but so strong is the prejudice against Ireland, and the disposition of the British Legislature to refuse her justice, that even the Ministers of the Crown, who are favourably disposed towards us, cannot venture, with any hope of success, to bring in a bill to give Ireland the same corporate reform which is possessed by Scotland and England. A paltry and inferior measure is in tardy progress through the Legislature; should it succeed, it will be inadequate; should it fail, it will be an additional insult. In either case it will continue a grievance, rendering the union a mockery and not a reality."1293"To make a charge of this description was to charge all those who supported that individual with subornation of perjury.""I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment, as settled by law, within this realm; and I do solemnly swear, that I never will exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled, to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion or Protestant Government in the United Kingdom; and I do solemnly, in the presence of God, profess, testify, and declare, that I do make this declaration, and every part thereof, in the plain and ordinary sense of the words of this oath, without any evasion, equivocation, or mental reservation whatsoever."1292"The ecclesiastical state revenues of Ireland are applied to the Church of a comparatively
1292129112901289"That the Lord Aungier intended to plant and settle the same in the hands of the King's English and Protestant subjects, and for the better planting the same, and for the better
1289"Incorporates the land mentioned in the charter, under the names of the borough and town of Jamestown; the said town to be built, erected, and made in the most convenient place of the said lands, which shall be next adjoining the river, called the Shannon.""He shall bring, or cause to be brought, in or to the said island of Enniskillen, twenty persons, being English or Scotch, and chiefly artificers and mechanics, to make, erect, and construct a town; and the said William Cole was bound within the aforesaid four years, to procure the same persons to be incorporated into one body politic, to endure for ever, as is necessary for the defence and security of the town aforesaid, as well for the defence and protection of all our faithful liege subjects there inhabiting, as for repressing and restraining rebels and other our enemies whatsoever,""Granted towards the fortification of Trim, where all the fideles of the county of Meath were congregated, certain tolls," &c.1288"That no one of Irish blood or nation should be mayor, or exercise any other office
1288"Exonerated the commons of Kinsale (the town being in the marches, among the Irish enemies and English rebels) from attendance on wards, musters, and Parliaments."l"Grants 30l"A burgess holding a tenement to let the same to strangers, without permission of the sovereign, and forbids Irishmen to reside in the town without licence, and the registration of their names.""Grants licence to pursue the Irish enemies who carry off the settler's property, and to make reprisals from them.""A special privilege to treat and traffic with the Irish enemies.""That the town of Balygavoran, in the county of Kilkenny, in the march of that county, was situate far from the aid of the English, and surrounded by Irish enemies, who had lately burned it, granted to the burgesses and commons certain murage and pavage customs for a term of forty years."128712861285lll"No particular individual can be pointed out as exercising paramount influence in the corporation since the change of its members in 1811, arid the proceedings of the Sovereign and free burgesses are of a more popular character than those of any other corporate body which we have visited. The admission of the commonalty to some share in the corporate proceedings, and the perfect freedom from religious distinction between the free burgesses and the great majority of the community, are strongly calculated to prevent the dissension which too commonly prevails in other places between the corporation, so called, and the inhabitants."1284The Bishop of Exeter
 observed, that it had been distinctly declared on the previous night, at both sides of the House, that the arrangement then made, must not be considered as pledging any noble Lord to consent to go into Committee. If this were the case, what had he done that either was strange or extraordinary? He had risen once or twice on the previous night, but hesitated and resumed his seat, thinking upon re-consideration, he might be able to consent to go into Committee. Reflection had, however, satisfied him, that unless by opposing this motion, he could not adequately discharge his duty to the Church of which he was a Bishop.The Bishop of Exeter
1303 deeply sympathized with gentlemen who were placed in so unfortunate a position as that of which the petitioners complained. With respect to what had been said as to leaving this question to the courts, it should be remembered that the courts were no parties to the transaction, except for the purpose of expounding the law. In that exposition the courts might be right or they might be wrong; but if their exposition of the law were found to be wrong, an appeal against their decision could be made to their Lordships. The present petitioners had acted with the utmost caution, and to the best of their judgment, under circumstances of pe-
1303The Earl of Haddington
1304 was desirous of avoiding any of the points connected with this question which might be likely to come before their Lordships in their judicial capacity. With respect to the petitioners, their case was an exceedingly hard one, and there was no foundation whatsoever upon which to allege that they had gone out of their way or done anything unnecessary, for it had not been denied that they were bound by law, not only to do what they had done but even to go beyond it at some time or other. He should like to know how it was that the conduct of the petitioners, in the course which they had so cautiously and so unwillingly pursued, could be pronounced premature and unnecessary. Had they abstained from obeying the commands of the court of law, they would have been punished for contumacy, but so far from going out of their way or acting prematurely, they had on the contrary stopped short of their obedience to the court. So far from acting prematurely, they had performed that which was their duty in rather a confined and qualified manner. For this obedience to the law, they had been visited with the
1304Lord Brougham
 observed that the General Assembly, considering itself by law to be the supreme ecclesiastical court, felt that, in the exercise of its supremacy, it was bound to see that its decrees were obeyed by the inferior courts. That was in fact the whole question. Under the present circumstances of the case, it would be premature just now to call upon their Lordships to take any proceedings. The parties were in the hands of the courts, and the proper mode would be to let the courts decide upon the question according to the law.The Marquess of Breadalbane
1302 said, that, being connected with four of the parishes in which the ministers were suspended, and having been called upon by the noble Earl to bear his testimony to the character of the petitioners, he felt he should be deserting his duty if he did not assure their Lordships that, since he had become connected with that part of the country, he had had many opportunities of witnessing the zealous and efficient manner in which the petitioners had performed the arduous duties of the sacred office to which they had devoted themselves. Their Lordships might not be aware that those were not men who had been lately presented to the parishes, and of whom the parishioners were entirely ignorant. The first of those gentlemen whose names were signed to the petition presented by the noble Earl had been forty years a parish minister, the next twelve years, the next fifteen, the next seventeen, the next fourteen, and the last only two years. Their Lordships could, therefore, easily understand that great inconvenience must have arisen from the circumstance of ministers going to those parishes with the order of the commission of the General Assembly, and suspending these men with whom they had been so long intimately acquainted. The ministers who had been so sent by the General Assembly, had not,
1302The Duke of Richmond
1301dolce far niènte1300"May it therefore please your honourable House to take the premises into consideration—to apply such legislative remedy as the nature of the case requires, and to pass some statute by which your petitioners, who are acting in obedience to a decree of the Supreme Court, may be protected in the discharge of their statutory duty, and the Church courts be restrained from punishing or depriving parties of offices held under the laws of the country for obeying the decree of the Supreme Court, which gives effect to the statutes of the realm.""Your petitioners submit, that this state of things, which may also soon occur in many other cases, requires the interposition of the Legislature, by whose statutes the duties on presbyteries of the Established Church of Scotland are imposed. The highest judicial tribunal of the country has decided what is the meaning, import, and effect of these statutes. The Supreme Court of Scotland has found that your petitioners are bound to perform the duty so declared, and have found that your petitioners, as ministers of parishes and members of presbytery, must enter upon the discharge of that duty. Your petitioners have done so. They will not resist and disobey the judgment of the Supreme Court. They submit that no body in the country can competently require them to set the law at defiance. But the General Assembly has found that the desire and attempt to obey the law is an offence against a Church established by the very same statutes which impose the duty above referred to. The General Assembly has tried to prevent your petitioners giving effect to the law, by suspending them from their offices, and have directed them to be accused of contumacy with a view to deposition, if your petitioners shall persist in obeying the law. Such proceedings bring before Parliament a state of matters which calls for immediate interposition and instant protection to your petitioners as dutiful subjects of her Majesty holding offices established by law.1299?Your petitioners humbly trust that they will not be exposed to consequences and to punishments so severe and deplorable, because they are willing to obey the law. If they thought that their vows of obedience to the Established Church, and. their duty as mi-
1299"Your petitioners," they said, and the noble Earl read the following extracts from the petition, "find that they are actually suspended, and may be deprived of legal offices, established by law, because there is a judgment of the Supreme Court pronounced against them, which they are willing and ready to obey. They find that they are not only to be prevented from obeying this judgment, buttobe punished and deprived of their rights, status, and functions, as ministers and members of the presbytery, because, under their oaths of allegiance, and as subjects of her Majesty, they desire to obey a judgment pronounced against them in that very character of ministers and members of Presbytery, and because, in the exercise of their rights as subjects, they applied for redress to the Supreme Court, which, found the sentence of the commission to be unconstitutional and illegal.1298129712961295 rose pursuant to notice, to present a petition to their Lordships from the seven Suspended Ministers of the Strathbogie Presbytery. The case which he had to bring under the consideration of the House, was one which did not require any addition of high coloured statement to secure attention. A simple statement of the facts he was sure would be sufficient to secure for the petitioners the sympathy of their Lordships. When the petitioners brought this petition to him, he had informed them, that although he
1301dolce far niènte1300"May it therefore please your honourable House to take the premises into consideration—to apply such legislative remedy as the nature of the case requires, and to pass some statute by which your petitioners, who are acting in obedience to a decree of the Supreme Court, may be protected in the discharge of their statutory duty, and the Church courts be restrained from punishing or depriving parties of offices held under the laws of the country for obeying the decree of the Supreme Court, which gives effect to the statutes of the realm.""Your petitioners submit, that this state of things, which may also soon occur in many other cases, requires the interposition of the Legislature, by whose statutes the duties on presbyteries of the Established Church of Scotland are imposed. The highest judicial tribunal of the country has decided what is the meaning, import, and effect of these statutes. The Supreme Court of Scotland has found that your petitioners are bound to perform the duty so declared, and have found that your petitioners, as ministers of parishes and members of presbytery, must enter upon the discharge of that duty. Your petitioners have done so. They will not resist and disobey the judgment of the Supreme Court. They submit that no body in the country can competently require them to set the law at defiance. But the General Assembly has found that the desire and attempt to obey the law is an offence against a Church established by the very same statutes which impose the duty above referred to. The General Assembly has tried to prevent your petitioners giving effect to the law, by suspending them from their offices, and have directed them to be accused of contumacy with a view to deposition, if your petitioners shall persist in obeying the law. Such proceedings bring before Parliament a state of matters which calls for immediate interposition and instant protection to your petitioners as dutiful subjects of her Majesty holding offices established by law.1299?Your petitioners humbly trust that they will not be exposed to consequences and to punishments so severe and deplorable, because they are willing to obey the law. If they thought that their vows of obedience to the Established Church, and. their duty as mi-
1299"Your petitioners," they said, and the noble Earl read the following extracts from the petition, "find that they are actually suspended, and may be deprived of legal offices, established by law, because there is a judgment of the Supreme Court pronounced against them, which they are willing and ready to obey. They find that they are not only to be prevented from obeying this judgment, buttobe punished and deprived of their rights, status, and functions, as ministers and members of the presbytery, because, under their oaths of allegiance, and as subjects of her Majesty, they desire to obey a judgment pronounced against them in that very character of ministers and members of Presbytery, and because, in the exercise of their rights as subjects, they applied for redress to the Supreme Court, which, found the sentence of the commission to be unconstitutional and illegal.1298129712961295The Earl of Aberdeen
 held it to be the first duty of the Government to maintain the peace of society; and, looking to the state of Scotland, arising from this agitation, he thought the Government had been guilty of an abandonment of duty in not having, at least, made some attempt at a remedy.The Earl of Aberdeen
dolce,far nièntedolce far niènte entirely agreed in the feelings expressed by all noble Lords that had spoken upon the hardship upon these petitioners. They were deprived of the power of doing good, though they were still in possession of their temporalities. They were, however, suspended in the performance of their spiritual duties, and it was impossible not deeply to lament those circumstances. With respect to any redress which it was possible for this House to afford, it could only be done by a legislative measure; therefore, the question now before the House was reduced to the same question as had already been discussed, and the difficulties were the same as then existed. It was the question, whether or not they should pass his noble Friend's bill or some other bill on the subject. His noble Friend complained that he had not brought forward any measure, and seemed to intimate that it arose from his habitual, his constant indulgence in the dolce,far nièntedolce far niènteViscount Melbourne
 disclaimed the intention of throwing any blame on the right rev. Prelate.The Duke of Wellington
1294 was desirous to address a few words to their Lordships, in explanation of the course which he in-
1294The Duke of Wellington
1366 presented a petition from Mr. Feargus O'Connor, to which he begged leave to call the attention of his noble Friend. The petitioner re-stated his former complaints as to the treatment which he had received
1366Lord Brougham
1367 said, that the petitioner, in the first place, was under a complete misapprehension as to the nature of the inquiry that had been set on foot, in consequence of his representations. A gentleman had been sent down to inquire whether the magistrates had complied with the rules and regulations of the prison, or whether they had exceeded them. The other part of the inquiry was directed for his own information, to enable him to judge whether it would be proper for him to take steps to remove Mr. O'Connor from York Castle to another prison. As to the first point, it was found that the magistrates had not violated any of the rules or regulations of the prison in the case of Mr. O'Connor; and, as to the second, nothing appeared that called for his removal. On this point, he had endeavoured to acquire all the information that he possibly could, and on that information he had acted. He did not wish to enter at large into Mr. O'Connor's representations on this occasion, but he was bound to say, that, in his mind, the weight of the testimony of the magistrates preponderated on every point. So far from any undue labour being imposed on Mr. O'Connor, one of the prisoners was directed to attend to him, and that man complained to Mr. Crawford of the extra labour imposed on him in consequence. It was denied that Mr. O'Connor was compelled to perform menial offices. He volunteered to assist in cleaning the yard, but was requested not to do so, and after
1367The Marquess of Normanby
1368 said, it was true that the Secretary of State had nothing at all to do with sending Mr. O'Connor, in the first instance, to York Castle. But Mr. O'Connor complained, that the application which he afterwards made to the Home-office to be removed from that prison, was refused. With respect to being debarred from seeing his legal adviser, the
1368Lord Brougham
 said, Mr. Crawford's statement was, that he was told that Mr. Clarkson, who was described as the professional adviser of Mr. O'Connor, wished to see him; but, on inquiry, he found that it was not on professional business. He was convinced that Mr. O'Connor's professional adviser was not refused admission to him, because strict orders were given that his friends and relations should be admitted at proper and convenient times, and, above all, that his professional adviser should have easy and ready access to him.The Marquess of Normanby
l.l.l..l.1373l.l.ll.l.1372d.s.s.l.l.l."What greater security would there be in the colonies from a law, than from a regulation binding on a colonial governor.""You will consider yourself at liberty to appropriate one-third of this sum to the payment of bounties on emigrants introduced by private settlers on the terms of the Government notice of the 28th of October, 1835; and the remaining two-thirds will be expended under the directions of the chief agent for emigration in this country."1371"Referring to the concluding paragraph of the report of the committee of the Legislative Council, in which they strongly urge the application of the whole of the revenues arising from the sale of Crown lands to the promotion of emigration, I am of opinion that the funds so derived cannot be more properly or beneficially appropriated than in the advancement of this object; and I am therefore prepared to sanction the appropriation of as large a portion of them as may be required for emigration. With this view, I have to request that you will, at the end of every year, transmit to me a statement of the revenue derived from the sale of crown lands, and also of the disbursements made from the same source in furtherance of emigration; and I would recommend that no portion of such revenue should, on any account, be devoted to other purposes, until this primary object has been sufficiently provided for."1370"Your Committee trust it will not be deemed irrelevant to state their opinion of the justice as well as the policy of applying the proceeds of the Crown lands exclusively to the introduction of a moral and industrious class of inhabitants. The first emigrants were induced to embark their fortunes in this distant colony, under the promise of receiving free grants of land, and in the confidence that the same policy would be continued as the best means of settling the country. If it has since been deemed expedient to sell the lands in lieu of granting them, as before, it is considered by the inhabitants merely as the conversion of capital into another form, and that the proceeds of the sale of land should still be applied to the same purposes as the land itself. If there be any justice in this argument it derives force from the circumstance that this colony is made the receptacle for the outcasts of the United Kingdom, and is consequently loaded with a vast disproportion of immoral people. That the colonists have derived many advantages from the transportation of convicts, cannot be denied; but the system has brought with it a long train of moral evils, which can only be counteracted by an extensive introduction of free and virtuous inhabitants; and the only means upon which the colonists can safely rely for accomplishing this
1370l..1369Lansdowne: having presented a petition from the Archdeaconry of Cornwall, praying for church extension, more especially in Australia, trusted that he should not have occasion to occupy their Lordships' attention long upon a subject which he should not have mentioned at all, but for something which had occurred during the discussion upon a most rev. Prelate's motion respecting transportation, when he (the Bishop of Exeter) said something in justification of this colony, which had been a good deal maligned by strong statements. He observed, upon that occasion, that it was a sufficiently great hardship upon this colony not to have secured the advantages to be derived from free emigration, according to the distinct pledge of the Government. [The Marquess of l.l.l..l.1373l.l.ll.l.1372d.s.s.l.l.l."What greater security would there be in the colonies from a law, than from a regulation binding on a colonial governor.""You will consider yourself at liberty to appropriate one-third of this sum to the payment of bounties on emigrants introduced by private settlers on the terms of the Government notice of the 28th of October, 1835; and the remaining two-thirds will be expended under the directions of the chief agent for emigration in this country."1371"Referring to the concluding paragraph of the report of the committee of the Legislative Council, in which they strongly urge the application of the whole of the revenues arising from the sale of Crown lands to the promotion of emigration, I am of opinion that the funds so derived cannot be more properly or beneficially appropriated than in the advancement of this object; and I am therefore prepared to sanction the appropriation of as large a portion of them as may be required for emigration. With this view, I have to request that you will, at the end of every year, transmit to me a statement of the revenue derived from the sale of crown lands, and also of the disbursements made from the same source in furtherance of emigration; and I would recommend that no portion of such revenue should, on any account, be devoted to other purposes, until this primary object has been sufficiently provided for."1370"Your Committee trust it will not be deemed irrelevant to state their opinion of the justice as well as the policy of applying the proceeds of the Crown lands exclusively to the introduction of a moral and industrious class of inhabitants. The first emigrants were induced to embark their fortunes in this distant colony, under the promise of receiving free grants of land, and in the confidence that the same policy would be continued as the best means of settling the country. If it has since been deemed expedient to sell the lands in lieu of granting them, as before, it is considered by the inhabitants merely as the conversion of capital into another form, and that the proceeds of the sale of land should still be applied to the same purposes as the land itself. If there be any justice in this argument it derives force from the circumstance that this colony is made the receptacle for the outcasts of the United Kingdom, and is consequently loaded with a vast disproportion of immoral people. That the colonists have derived many advantages from the transportation of convicts, cannot be denied; but the system has brought with it a long train of moral evils, which can only be counteracted by an extensive introduction of free and virtuous inhabitants; and the only means upon which the colonists can safely rely for accomplishing this
1370l..1369Lansdowne:The Bishop of Exeter,
"So great is the demand for labour, that a very large portion of those imported appear to be corrupted, as it were, by the competition to obtain their services, and the sudden change of circumstances in which they find themselves placed. In proof of the unexampled scarcity of labourers, I have at various periods during the last six months inserted advertisements in the newspapers for labourers to perform work by the piece, and that hitherto I have not had one application in consequence of them. I am confident, that in former years, a similar advertisement would have brought to me as many men as we wished to employ." replied. The noble Marquess had stated, that the Government had exceeded its means with respect to emigration, and that it was, therefore, high time to tie up their hands. It would also appear from the statement of the noble Marquess, that the importation of labour was carried to such an extent, that the colony was already saturated with it. What was the opinion of Mr. M'Arthur, as found in the Report on Emigration in 1834? It was this:—
"So great is the demand for labour, that a very large portion of those imported appear to be corrupted, as it were, by the competition to obtain their services, and the sudden change of circumstances in which they find themselves placed. In proof of the unexampled scarcity of labourers, I have at various periods during the last six months inserted advertisements in the newspapers for labourers to perform work by the piece, and that hitherto I have not had one application in consequence of them. I am confident, that in former years, a similar advertisement would have brought to me as many men as we wished to employ."The Bishop of Exeter
1378l.l.l.l.l..1377l.l..l.l."I am commanded to acquaint you that my Lords entirely concur in the importance which his Lordship attaches to the increase of females in New South Wales. They approve of his Lordship's proposal to apply the produce of the sale of lands in the colony for the present to the encouragement of the emigration of females to the colony."1376l.13751374 rose, he said, for the purpose of troubling their Lordships with a few observations, because the right rev. Prelate, in giving notice of this motion, had addressed himself particularly to him. The right rev. Prelate was fully entitled to do so, having expressed, as he had done, opinions with respect to emigration—opinions that he did not at all retract, because it was, and still continued to be his opinion, that with
1378l.l.l.l.l..1377l.l..l.l."I am commanded to acquaint you that my Lords entirely concur in the importance which his Lordship attaches to the increase of females in New South Wales. They approve of his Lordship's proposal to apply the produce of the sale of lands in the colony for the present to the encouragement of the emigration of females to the colony."1376l.13751374The Marquess of Lansdowne
1381l.l.l.1380l.1379 thought that the production of those papers, whether they established a charge against the administration of those funds, or afforded an explanation of the circumstances in which the interests of the colony were placed, would be very useful to their Lordships. He fully subscribed to everything that had been stated respecting the value and importance of the colony, and the necessity there was of constant vigilance on the part of the Government and of Parliament to the promotion of its interests. He would
1381l.l.l.1380l.1379The Earl of Ripon
2 said, with reference to a notice of motion, given by a noble Marquess (Westmeath) for a select committee, to inquire into matters relating to the Poor-law Act in Ireland, which stood for Thursday next, that it would be impossible for Mr. Nicholls and other Gentlemen connected with the introduction of that measure into Ireland, whose conduct might perhaps be impugned, to appear at so short a notice. He would put it to the noble Marquess himself, whether he would feel justified in moving for a select committee, on so short a notice, of which he was not himself aware until he saw it on the paper. He hoped the noble Marquess would not
2The Marquess of Normanby
, upon looking to the order book, saw no other open day but that which he had selected until Friday week. In the present state of the Session he hoped the noble Marquess would not ask him to put off his motion till the arrival of Mr. Nicholls. The question was one of pressing importance, and if he consented so to postpone his motion it would be thrown over for the present Session. He hoped that the Irish Poor Law would not be allowed to remain in its present state during the ensuing recess. That law had been basely and wickedly perverted to party purposes in Ireland, and the proceedings which had taken place under it ought to be investigated. He trusted, therefore, that the noble Marquess would allow him to proceed with his motion on Thursday. He had received many communications on the subject, urging him strongly not to postpone his motion.The Marquess of Westmeath
3 said, the more convenient course would be for the noble Marquess to take an open day for stating any general objections which he might entertain against this measure. It
3The Marquess of Normanby
 was not aware, whether the noble Marquess near him meant to impugn the conduct of Mr. Nicholls as wrong, or whether his object was to shew that the Poor-law itself was bad? If the latter, there was nothing to prevent him from bringing in a bill to amend the law; and, on the second reading, he might go into the whole subject. There was a very great difference between bringing charges against individuals, and introducing a bill to amend or to repeal another measure.Lord Ellenborough
, if he was sure of carrying a bill through that House, and more particularly through the House of Commons, for altering the Irish Poor-law, would most certainly propose it at once. But he did not flatter himself with any such assurance. His idea at present, therefore, was, that a committee should be appointed to consider the question, and, if the noble Marquess wished it, he would postpone his motion till Friday week.The Marquess of Westmeath
 said, they were now past the middle of June, and he would ask his noble Friend did he think it at all likely that a committee appointed at so late a period could make such a report, as that any bill could possibly result from their labours this Session? This, too, was the most critical moment at which the law could be attacked, when it had been so recently brought into operation. The greatest possible inconvenience would result from pursuing such a course, and he thought the most judicious mode would be for his noble Friend not to persevere in his motion for a committee.The Earl of Wicklow
4 said, the bill was working as ill as it possibly could, and, if it were allowed to go on in the same way during another recess, the worst consequences might be apprehended. Why might not an inquiry take place, so that the law might be amended on particular points? As the law now stood, in many instances the Roman Catholic priests ran away with the elections of guardians. Why should not this defect in the measure be corrected?
4The Marquess of Westmeath
 was opposed to the appointment of a committee to consider of this law. It should be recollected, that the law was now only early in the course of operation, and the formation of a committee must necessarily have the effect of preventing it from having any fair play whatever. The effect of appointing a committee would be neither more nor less than putting the bill on its trial before it had been a sufficient time in operation to judge of it fairly.Lord Brougham
 was sorry that parties, actuated by religious feelings or prejudices, should interfere in those elections. But how could they expect to ameliorate the situation of Ireland, in that respect; or in any other matter connected with the law, by going into committee at this period of the Session? They must hear both parties. And when the noble Marquess talked of the influence of priests, his opponents would speak of influence on the other side. Thus, the statements made before the committee, upon which it would be impossible to frame any measure this Session, would, during six months of the recess, be the subject of angry discussion in Ireland. Would that, he begged leave to ask, be conducive to the tranquillity of Ireland, or to the successful working of the bill? His conviction was, whatever was the ground on which the noble Marquess wished to call for a committee, that such a proceeding would only lead to aggravation of public feeling in Ireland—the very thing that was most to be avoided.Lord Ellenborough
 was prepared to shew that the power of rating under the Poor Law, as connected with the Reform Bill, was greatly abused. He could prove that many evils arose out of the system. These points might be considered, and the committee might declare what should be done, or whether nothing should be done. He should not be doing justice to numerous parties who had applied to him on the subject if he did not bring it forward this Session.The Marquess of Westmeath
5 said, that, with respect to rating, there was a power of appeal under the act. If those who now complained had not appealed, they had no right to come before Parliament. If they bad appealed, and could shew that the law was.
5Lord Ellenborough
l.l., wished to asked the noble Viscount a question, having reference to a motion of his relative to the unfortunate officers of the Anglo-Spanish Legion, which stood on the order book for Thursday next. He wished to received some information from the noble Viscount as to the progress of the negotiation for settling the claims of those officers. He had now, since April last, earnestly urged the claims of those unfortunate persons who, for three years, had been endeavouring to procure what was justly due to them. Those individuals still hoped, from had passed in that House, that justice would at length be rendered to them. He strongly felt the propriety of their claims; and he hoped that the Session would not be allowed to pass, without some decisive statement from the noble Viscount that their demands would be liquidated. If the noble Viscount would give an assurance of that nature, he should most readily withdraw his motion which stood for Thursday. He had heard a report, that a promise had been given for a speedy payment of 50,000l.l.,The Marquess of Londonderry
6 said, that that declaration of the noble Viscount was satisfactory. The justice of the claims had been acknowledged by the course which
6The Marquess of Londonderry
"Copies of any report or reports made to the Irish Government relative to the conduct of the Rev. Philip O'Reilly, Roman Catholic priest, of the county of Cavan, and of informations exhibited against him by any of the constabulary police for his having used language of an inflammatory character in his chapel, and to the congregation there, inciting to acts of violence against any persons relative to the taking of land. Also copies of the informations, &c., exhibited against the said Mr. O'Reilly, or any other Rowan Catholic priest implicated thereby in the same. Also, copies of all correspondence between the Irish Government and any magistrate, stipendiary or otherwise, attending the petty sessions of Ballymacue, in the county of Cavan, relative to this transaction. And also, copies of any report made to the Irish Government by any magistrate, stipendiary or otherwise, relative to the same."8sl.l.l.l"He congratulated the jury and himself, that they had not been brought to the commission of a legal murder."7l.,"He, who would take this land, ought to have his ears cut off, like a pig's, or an ass's." had a short statement to make to their Lordships, pursuant to notice, connected with the administration of justice in Ireland. His object was to obtain authentic information, in the shape of documents, connected with a transaction of which he understood the following to be the fact:— A Roman Catholic priest, in the county of Cavan, the Rev. Philip O'Reilly, by name, of the parish of Ballymacue, had chosen to indulge (what was not uncommon in Ireland) in very insulting language from the altar, against any person who might presume to take some land. The words which the priest used were, that,
"Copies of any report or reports made to the Irish Government relative to the conduct of the Rev. Philip O'Reilly, Roman Catholic priest, of the county of Cavan, and of informations exhibited against him by any of the constabulary police for his having used language of an inflammatory character in his chapel, and to the congregation there, inciting to acts of violence against any persons relative to the taking of land. Also copies of the informations, &c., exhibited against the said Mr. O'Reilly, or any other Rowan Catholic priest implicated thereby in the same. Also, copies of all correspondence between the Irish Government and any magistrate, stipendiary or otherwise, attending the petty sessions of Ballymacue, in the county of Cavan, relative to this transaction. And also, copies of any report made to the Irish Government by any magistrate, stipendiary or otherwise, relative to the same."8sl.l.l.l"He congratulated the jury and himself, that they had not been brought to the commission of a legal murder."7l.,"He, who would take this land, ought to have his ears cut off, like a pig's, or an ass's."The Marquess of Westmeath
11109 said, the the noble Marquess opposite had concluded his speech by stating that, in his opinion, he had laid sufficient grounds for the production of the documents for which he had
11109The Marquess of Normanby
 had never witnessed a more signal failure than that of the noble Marquess, in the attempt which he had made to lay a foundation for refusing the production of those papers. The noble Marquess had admitted the whole case, and yet he refused to produce the documents by which alone their Lordships could judge of its merits. In his opinion, he had laid fair grounds for the production of those papers, and he should persist in his motion for their production.The Marquess of Westmeath
 was happy to be able to reply that the negotiation was very near its termination. There had been no payment as yet in money, but bills had been received in London. He could also add, that he was satisfied with the negotiation, so far as it had gone.Viscount Melbourne
 was obliged to the noble Earl for calling his attention to the subject. The case was not entirely unparalleled; but still it was one of so much novelty, that it would be very inconvenient to give an opinion on it without due consideration, and an application to the proper law authorities.The Marquess of Normanby
71, said, this bill did, a short time since, contain clauses to which he felt the most decided objection, and to which, from all the attention that he had been able to bestow upon the subject, and from all that had passed in that House and in the other House of Parliament, he had every reason to believe the most decided objections was felt in every quarter. He was convinced that an universal concurrence of opinion prevailed with reference to the subject matter of those obnoxious provisions, and had they been preserved, he entertained a confident hope, that had he called on their Lordships, as he should
71Lord Brougham
72 said, if some measure were not taken to procure labourers for our sugar colonies, they would soon be lost to this country for ever. Ever since he entered Parliament he had constantly voted against the infamous traffic in slaves, and had afforded his utmost support to the efforts that were made in favour of emancipation. But he believed, that many persons who evinced a just hostility to the slave trade, laboured under some degree of misapprehension, and confounded their hostility to the trade with views which would be wholly destructive to the West India proprietor, by endeavouring to prevent him from acquiring labourers. Such a course was not only not in favour of humanity, but, as it appeared to him, was against humanity, for the fewer the labourers, the greater must be the amount of toil. Therefore, as a question of humanity, he conceived that the friends of the West India population were not taking the wisest course. He could assure their Lordships, that though the people of this country would endure to pay high prices for such a necessary as sugar, if the enhanced value were mixed up with the question of humanity; yet, if those prices were driven up too high, in the end sugar would be derived from slave colonies. The question then was, could they procure a sufficient supply of sugar by promoting the cultivation of that article elsewhere? or would they resort for it to slave colonies? As the black population was circumstanced
72Lord Ashburton
 said, as the bill had no provisions with reference to the subject to which his noble Friend had referred, he had abstained from giving any opinion whatever on it. He was rejoiced, however, to find that his noble Friend had applied his mind to the question, and he trusted that some remedy might be devised to prevent the evils which his noble Friend apprehended.Lord Brougham
73 said, if the present duty on East India sugar was equalised with that on West India sugar, that article would be extensively cultivated in the East Indies. It would be cheap, and there would be sufficient for all the wants of this country. With respect to the supply of labourers for the colonies, his noble and learned Friend would recollect, that two years ago their Lordships passed a bill on this subject, which would have admitted East India labourers to the colonies; and that bill contained restrictions which guarded them against abuse, against fraud, against death, which had too often occurred in consequence of the existing mode of importation. Their Lordships never would consent to the bill without those protective clauses. Neither would they suffer a great colony or association to consist of males only. That was an abomination to which they never would listen. He was confident that that bill would have operated beneficially. It protected the labourer, it provided against every species of fraud and abuse; but the House of Commons would not agree to it. Their Lordships were willing that the natives of of India should be employed in the colonies, but on this express condition—that no abuse should be permitted, that no in. jury should be done to the people of India, whom this Legislature, as the superior power of that country was bound to protect as British subjects. It was provided by that bill, that they should clearly know
73Lord Ellenborough
 on the part of the clergy, gave his cordial approbation to the bill.The Archbishop of Canterbury
75 entirely and heartily concurred in this measure. He should not have said a word upon it, had not the noble Lord on the woolsack said, that he liked it, because it approached so near the bill of last year. Now, he (the Bishop of Exeter) gave his assent to it,
75The Bishop of Exeter
 approved of the bill, but suggested that it ought to contain a power to put out of the ministry any clerk for misconduct which would have excluded him from admission into it. Whether Parliament would agree to give that power, he knew not; but till that power was given, it was in vain to talk of Church extension, or of building new Churches, or of providing additional funds for the support of the clergy, for they would not have that laborious and diligent clergy, which would be the best protection to the Church from all the dangers by which it was encompassed. In the bill then before the House, several amendments might be made, but the present was not a convenient time for proposing them. Perhaps the most convenient course to pursue would be for him to communicate in private to the most rev. Prelate, or to the noble Lord on the woolsack, the amendments which he thought ought to be made. If not, he should suggest them to their Lordships when the bill got into Committee.Lord Ellenborough
 stated, that the objections which he had urged against the bill, which came up to their Lordships from the House of Commons on this subject last year had all been obviated by the bill of this year, except that objection which rested on the patronage which the bill gave to the judge over the appointment of the different officers of his court. He therefore suggested, that in the present stage of the bill no resistance should be offered to it. Instead of thinking the salary given to the judge of the court too high, he thought it too low; but to their Lordships' House no alteration in that respect could be made.Lord Brougham
76 said, that the object of the bill was to enable the clergy of the Episcopal Church in Scotland, not to hold benefices, but to officiate in England as curates, under certain restrictions—with the consent of the Bishop. The most rev. Prelate read two letters from Clergymen of the Scotch Episcopal Church, thanking him for his exertions with regard to the bill, and stating, that it would confer a boon on them which would add considerably to their respectability and efficiency. He thought, therefore, that, their Lordships should not object to the bill, as it would be received as such a compliment by the
76The Archbishop of Canterbury
supersedeas70Blackstone said, he had received yesterday a copy of a requisition to the High Sheriff of the county of Galway, calling on him to convene a meeting for the purpose of addressing her Majesty on the subject of the late nefarious attempt on her Majesty's life, the answer to which was signed "Ashdown," as High Sheriff of the county. His reason for calling the attention of the noble Marquess opposite to the subject was, the High Sheriff, in this case, was a peer of Ireland. When he became High Sheriff he was not a peer; but since that time his noble relative had died, and the present noble Lord, as his nephew, had succeeded to his title and estates. He was not aware how far Lord Ashdown's appointment as High Sheriff, previous to his taking the title, affected his holding that office, or executing the duties attached to it. There was, however, a case somewhat analogous, which had occurred a few years ago. The late Earl of Dysart, when he came to his title, was acting on the grand jury; and the counsel for a prisoner objected, in consequence, to the validity of the acts performed by that jury. The case was argued, and the objection was admitted to be valid. Usage and custom, he believed, were against the practice of allowing a peer to act as High Sheriff, except in the case of Lord Thanet, who was hereditary sheriff of Westmoreland. He found it stated in supersedeas70BlackstoneThe Earl of Charleville
lll, in moving the second reading of the Admiralty Courts Judge's Salary Bill, said that the object of it was to place the judge of the Court and the registrar of the Court of Admiralty on such a footing as would enable them to transact the business of the court efficiently, both in time of peace and in time of war. The bill proposed to make the salary of the judge 4,000lllThe Lord Chancellor
74, in moving the second reading of the Church Discipline Bill expressed a hope that it would reconcile all the differences which had existed upon the subject. His opinion was, that the most desirable course to pursue, was, to bring all subjects in which clerks were accused of im-
74The Lord Chancellor
 replied, and observed, that the machinery of this bill was only for improving the administration of the existing law.The Lord Chancellor
l.111, in reference to a question which he had put last night to the noble Secretary for the Home Department, said that, in his mind, the refusing, by the Government, the payment of a sum of money from a Roman Catholic priest, in the case to which he had adverted, for the purpose of
l.111The Marquess of Westmeath
l. stated that he proceeded on the admission of the noble Marquess (Normanby) himself. The noble Marquess had admitted that the informations were not returned to a court of justice, as they ought to have been; and he also stated that 50l.The Marquess of Westmeath
Richmond:: Was the measure meant for Ireland as well as this country? [The Duke of Richmond:The Marquess of Westmeath
 would not oppose the second reading of the bill; but there were parts of its machinery to which he objected, and he did not think that it ought to pass in its present shape.Lord Portman
 suggested to the noble Duke, whether it would not be expedient to extend the provisions of the bill to corporations sole and corporations aggregate.Lord Ellenborough
112 said, that by the provisions of this bill, it would not be competent to the Lord Chancellor to order a
112Lord Ashburton
 said, the noble Marquess assumed that a compromise of a prosecution had taken place, which he had no authority for doing.Viscount Melbourne
 said, he rose to state his sentiments on this measure.The Marquess of Londonderry
: Does the noble Marquess mean to oppose going into Committee on the bill?Lord Lyndhurst
163ergo162 certainly did. After the unanswered and unanswerable speech which they had heard from counsel at the bar against this bill, he could not reconcile himself to consent to the further progress of the measure under any circumstances. He admitted the abilities, the zeal, the perspicacity, of his noble and learned Friend who intended to propose amendments in this bill; but, in his opinion, nothing which his noble and learned Friend could propose could so alter the bill as to justify their Lordships in passing it. When they found petitions pouring in from every part of Ireland against the measure, he trusted that their Lordships would not sanction it. What would be the effect of the bill? It would take power out of the hands of those who were properly intrusted with it, because they had always used it wisely, and would throw it into the hands of a party who were adverse to the British connexion. He had expected when the bill was brought forward to hear from the noble Viscount opposite some answer to the statements contained in those most able and eloquent speeches that were made at their Lordships' Bar against the measure. But what was the sort of argument that the noble Viscount urged on the House? All they heard from the noble Viscount was, that their Lordships had already passed two such bills for regulating, or rather for subverting, municipal corporations in Ireland, and therefore that they ought also to entertain the present measure. He could not consider that to be any proper ground for agreeing to this bill. The argument, if argument it could be called, amounted merely to this—that because they had in two sessions sent
163ergo162The Marquess of Londonderry
171l.l.170l.l.l.l.169l.l.l.168"The result of this system," said the commissioners, "is, that the poor agriculturists are taxed enormously to supply things which they never enjoy; the rich citizens are taxed lightly to supply things that they always enjoy; the poor countryman pays more than six times the rate of the tax paid by the rich citizen on a fair relative comparison, to support city taxes, city corporations, and general city establishments."167166165164 said, that from the complicated nature of this bill, he thought it would be convenient that he should pursue the course he had taken on former occasions, which was, to refer successively to the amendments, that it was his intention to move in Committee, and without the adoption of which he was persuaded their Lordships would never consent to pass this bill into law. He assured their Lordships that he should occupy as small a portion of their time as was consistent with the necessary statement of the facts to which he was about to refer. It was not his intention to say a single word with respect to the principle of this bill, with respect to the effect it was likely to produce in Ireland on the Protestant Church, and the general interests of the country, or with respect to the feeling which the bill had created in Ireland, and the growing distaste to the measure, according to his view, in this country. He should pass over all those topics, however fruitful they might be, because he did not think them suitable to the present occasion, and he should confine himself simply to the details of the clauses, and the amendments which it was his intention to propose. He must be allowed to say, that there were some circumstances connected with this bill which would strike their Lordships as a little singular. They had had a measure of this kind in 1836, another in 1837, a third in 1838, and a fourth in 1839. All those bills had come up from the other House of Parliament, drawn in the same form and upon the same model, so that it was easy for their Lordships to see the alterations which had been made in them, and
171l.l.170l.l.l.l.169l.l.l.168"The result of this system," said the commissioners, "is, that the poor agriculturists are taxed enormously to supply things which they never enjoy; the rich citizens are taxed lightly to supply things that they always enjoy; the poor countryman pays more than six times the rate of the tax paid by the rich citizen on a fair relative comparison, to support city taxes, city corporations, and general city establishments."167166165164Lord Lyndhurst
174173172 said, he could not help thinking that the amendments which his noble and learned Friend proposed making, would have been much better discussed when they came to the clauses
174173172The Lord Chancellor
176175 wished to make a few observations with respect to the last point which had been alluded to by the noble and learned Lord, because on going into Committee, he would not have an oppor-
176175Lord Lyndhurst
 referred to the bill of 1838 for the purpose of showing that there was no ambiguity in the clause which threw the liberties of towns into the counties. If his noble and learned Friend were right in his interpretation, they must have in all those places two grand juries and two assizes.The Lord Chancellor
: The clause in this bill is liable to the same objection.Lord Lyndhurst
178Lyndhurst177 not having the honour of being present at the second reading of this bill, only rose for the purpose of saying that he adhered to the principle of the bill, and continued his opposition to all the amendments proposed by his noble
178Lyndhurst177Lord Brougham
179hoped that his noble and learned Friend would explain the
179The Earl of Wicklow 
 said that he never meant to say positively that if the Government did not bring in a bill for the purpose of rectifying what he considered unjust, he would not give his assent to the present bill. What he intended to say, and what he thought he did say was, that he would not amend this bill in such a way as to infringe with his eyes open upon the privileges of the House of Commons; therefore that he would pass over the clauses connected with the point, leaving it for the Government or her Majesty's Ministers to pursue such a course as they might think it expedient and prudent to pursue with respect to it, leaving to himself afterwards, upon due consideration of what the Government might do or omit to do, to pursue such a course as under all the circumstances they might think it prudent and wise to adopt.Lord Lyndhurst
 was exceedingly relieved by what had fallen from his noble and learned Friend. He would have been more entirely relieved if there had been less of doubt and postponement in the tone of his noble and learned Friend. However, he felt that there was much less gloom in his (Lord Brougham's) prospects, and he could not avoid fairly stating that his noble and learned Friend had very considerably relieved him.Lord Brougham
182l.181Lyndhurst said, that the noble and learned Lord opposite objected to the power of taxation being given to the municipal bodies, because it was not accompanied by sufficient guards, by such guards as existed in the case of grand juries to prevent abuse. He was ready to state, if the noble and learned Lord would consent to give the power upon condition of having such guards, that there would be no objection on the part of the Government to proposing them. But he must take that opportunity of expressing his hostility to one of the noble Lord's amendments, which appeared to him subversive of the principle on which the bill was founded, namely, responsibility. He was astonished to find this amendment introduced, though certainly not introduced into the speech of the noble and learned Lord. He was astonished to find when their Lordships were engaged upon a bill with the important object of creating throughout Ireland responsible government, and responsible administration, that the noble and learned Lord should select that opportunity for attempting to create by Act of Parliament a corporate body responsible to no one; to provide for its perpetuity, by making the Members elect each other, and by excluding the public from every protection against the abuse of the public funds entrusted to that corporation. The amendment to which he adverted was that referring to the Blue-coat Hospital. [Lord 182l.181LyndhurstThe Marquess of Lansdowne
183 said, that he had not professed, in his opening statement, to enter into every clause in the bill. It never struck him that it was necessary to refer to a clause such as that relating to the Blue-coat Hospital, which, on two successive occasions, had been sanctioned by a majority of their Lordships. The noble Marquess was quite mistaken in supposing that the managers of that charity would be irresponsible. The noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack could
183Lord Lyndhurst
 understood the noble and learned Lord to say, that if a poor Protestant of Dublin found his child unjustly excluded from the Blue-coat School, he had the very satisfactory remedy of instituting a suit in Chancery. That was the kind of remedy which the noble and learned Lord would have for abuses in the municipal corporations.The Marquess of Lansdowne
 said, that the conduct or misconduct of persons in a public situation could only be determined by a judicial inquiry. Nothing of the kind had taken place with respect to the managers of this charity, and he could attach no value to assertions of their misconduct.Lord Lyndhurst
 had said nothing of the management of the charity, which was not founded on the report of the commissioners, a document which the noble and learned Lord himself frequently quoted.The Marquess of Lansdowne
184"That all persona now entitled to vote at
184"Provided, that nothing herein contained shall prejudice, confirm, effect, or alter any right of voting of any such person who shall have been admitted a freeman of any such borough at any time before this act shall come into operation in that borough; and that every person who shall then have, or who, if this Act had not been passed, thereafter would have had a right, by reason of birth, marriage, or service, or of any statute so in force, to be admitted a freeman of any such borough, to be placed on the roll of freemen of such borough, and to acquire as such freemen the right of voting in the election of a member or members to serve in Parliament for such borough, shall be entitled to be admitted and enrolled as a freeman of such borough, on the previous roll, according to the provisions hereinafter contained, and to acquire and enjoy as such freemen such right of voting, subject to the conditions in such recited act contained, as fully as if this act had not been passed, and as if he had been actually admitted a freeman of such borough, provided he shall be enrolled in the freemen's roll of such borough, according to the provisions hereinafter contained." proposed, as an amendment, to leave out the following words in the said clause:—
184"That all persona now entitled to vote at
184"Provided, that nothing herein contained shall prejudice, confirm, effect, or alter any right of voting of any such person who shall have been admitted a freeman of any such borough at any time before this act shall come into operation in that borough; and that every person who shall then have, or who, if this Act had not been passed, thereafter would have had a right, by reason of birth, marriage, or service, or of any statute so in force, to be admitted a freeman of any such borough, to be placed on the roll of freemen of such borough, and to acquire as such freemen the right of voting in the election of a member or members to serve in Parliament for such borough, shall be entitled to be admitted and enrolled as a freeman of such borough, on the previous roll, according to the provisions hereinafter contained, and to acquire and enjoy as such freemen such right of voting, subject to the conditions in such recited act contained, as fully as if this act had not been passed, and as if he had been actually admitted a freeman of such borough, provided he shall be enrolled in the freemen's roll of such borough, according to the provisions hereinafter contained."Lord Lyndhurst
 opposed the amendment. The Court of Queen's Bench in Dublin had decided on a writ of mandamus, that these persons had not the right described by the noble and learned Lord. The effect of the noble Lord's amendment was, that person's possessing certain opinions should have the franchise, which he should withhold from every other person in the same station of life who did not hold those opinions.The Marquess of Clanricarde
 said, that both noble Lords proposed to continue the existing rights of Parliamentary voters, but the question was, whether the bill, as it existed, would continue them. Being desirous to pass the bill if it were possible, but not to deprive any individual of his municipal rights, if any plan could be suggested by which the difficulties would be removed, he would go to a division; but as at present advised, he had come to a resolution not to divide at all.The Earl of Wicklow
185 asked, why, if these persons were included, because they had the capacity of being elected, all other persons were not also included? The noble Lord wished to give to these
185The Lord Chancellor
 referred to the opinion of the Court of Queen's Bench in Dublin, as expressed by Mr. Justice Burton, and said, that if their Lordships did not admit this amendment, but retained the clause in the bill as originally intended, there would be certain persons who had advanced a certain point to a station, and when they acquired their right of freedom you deprived them of the advantage of the position in which they were placed by abolishing the tribunal whose duty it was to decide, and said they should have no right at all.Lord Lyndhurst
 differed from the noble Lord. Their Lordships ought to give these persons the right by enlarging the operation of this bill, so as to include the citizens of Dublin, and not restrict it, so that it was almost a farce to say you were giving it to the freemen. He hoped that their Lordships would give no exclusive right to persons because they had certain opinions, and deny those rights to all other fellow-citizens of the same class.The Marquess of Clanricarde
 referred to the evidence of Alderman Nugent, in p. 10, where he said, "that of 4,000 freemen not one was a Catholic. In point of fact, the corporation was not open to Roman Catholics. Six or seven highly respectable Roman Catholics were admitted to the merchants' guild many years ago, but they were not admitted to the freedom of the city."The Marquess of Normanby
 observing, that under the Reform Act no honorary freeman admitted since the 31st of March, 1831, could vote in the election of Members of Parliament; but, in Ireland, though such persons were not entitled to exercise the Parliamentary franchise, they served to transmit to their children the privilege of being freemen of right; and there had been consequently a large manufacture of honorary freemen, not for the purpose of voting, but of transmitting the right to others. The object of this clause was to assimilate the law in Ireland to what it was in England, and to provide that no man should have a right to the freedom, who did not derive through some one who was a freeman previously to the 31st of March, 1831, or through some person who, since that time, should have become, or should hereafter become, a freeman in respect of servitude.The Lord Chancellor
bonâ fide said, the clause in the hill applied not only to honorary freemen, but to all freemen, whether admitted by birth or marriage, since 1831. His noble and learned Friend proposed this clause on the statement, that he understood a great number of honorary freemen had been made in late years, for the purpose of out-voting the bonâ fideLord Lyndhurst
 admitted, that they were attempting to correct an abuse, which existed under that act, by excluding from the freedom those who derived their title through honorary freemen admitted since the 31st of March, 1831.The Lord Chancellor
: It applies, not to those only, but to all honorary freemen.Lord Lyndhurst
189 objected to the clause. By the proposed amendment they would do nothing with the Reform Act. His objection to the last clause was, that it
189The Earl of Wicklow
 objected to this amendment. He saw no reason why one of the largest towns in Ireland should be excluded from municipal rights. When this amendment was proposed last year he should have voted against it if her Majesty's Ministers had gone to a division on it.The Earl of Wicklow
 supported the amendment. Galway was peculiarly situated. It so happened that, for a very long time, a constant struggle had been carried on between the corporation and the inhabitants, who had at length succeeded in perfectly reforming all the abuses which formerly existed, and it was now in the very state to which they wish to bring all the towns of Ireland. They had the lighting, paving, and other business of the town managed by commissioners under local acts. He should prefer having Galway placed in Schedule B.The Marquis of Clanricarde
 had presented a petition from the town of Belfast, and he thought that if the town of Galway was to be excepted, that of Belfast should be excepted also.The Marquess of Downshire
 congratulated her Majesty's Ministers on the support of the noble Marquess opposite, who, though a great advocate for municipal reform, was anxious to have his own town of Galway exempted from the operations of this bill.The Earl of Wicklow
 said the noble Earl had mistaken what he had stated. He had only said there were local acts applying to Galway so late, he believed, as 1836, which had given it the reformed corporation which it had at present. That reform being so late, and effectual, and consonant with the wishes of the inhabitants, he did not see any necessity for their Lordships now interfering.The Marquess of Clanricarde
190 said it appeared that in Galway the people had
190The Marquess of Westmeath
 observed, that the proposition of the noble and learned Lord (Lord Wynford) was to leave Dublin out of the operation of the bill, which was, in point of fact, to continue all the abuses which at present existed there, while his noble Friend merely recommended that the town of Galway should be transferred from schedule A to schedule B. He would not trouble the Committee to divide on the proposition now made by the noble and learned Lord.The Marquess of Normanby
l. said he thought that this clause was the most dangerous in the bill, as affording a fruitful source of agitation amongst a poor population, who would be liable to be influenced to petition for a charter of incorporation. The clause was exceedingly objectionable, inasmuch as it gave such a power to so small a body of inhabitants in any place as 3,000 to form such a corporation which might be turned to dangerous political purposes by designing men, especially when it might happen that there would not be more than three or four persons of property amounting to 10l.The Earl of Wicklow
l. objected to the qualification laid down by this clause, and meant to propose instead of it the qualification which was passed in the bill of 1838—the qualification, in fact, of the Scottish Municipal Reform Bill—the occupation of a house of 10l.Lord Lyndhurst
 opposed the amendment, which, he contended, originated in an anti-Irish feeling at the other side of the House. He declared that the Roman Catholics were generally richer in towns than their Protestant fellow-citizens, and that the three years contemplated would not make any difference in their comparative conditions similar to what appeared to be expected by the noble and learned Lord. The sole object of the clause, which the noble and learned Lord wished to set aside, was to place the people of both countries on a level, while the opposition to it was grounded upon the mischievous principle of ecclesiastical ascendancy in civil affairs.Lord Stuart de Decies
l. denied the justness of the imputation that their Lordships at his side of the House were animated by anti-Irish feelings. Never was a speech so inapplicable, and never was a speech so unfounded. The object of the amendment was most consistent-—to provide that the qualification should, in all cases, be 10l.The Earl of Wicklow
192 remarked, that in a former bill of this description, proposed in the year before last, the appointment of the sheriffs had been proposed to be vested in the corporations in the first instance, by their appointing or selecting three burgesses or members of the corporation, in order that the Lord-lieutenant should elect one of them to be sheriff of such place, and should he object to all three, the corporators should have a right again to name three more, and submit to the Lord-lieutenant those candidates for election. If he should again decline to select one of them to the office, then and not till then, the appointment was absolutely to vest in the Lord-lieutenant. That bill had been amended in their Lordships' House, with the assent of the noble Viscount at the head of the Government, and he saw the same reasons for proposing an amendment similar to that which had before received the assent of their Lordships, of which reasons he conceived the strongest to be, that as the sheriff's duty was magisterial and connected with the highest department of the administration of justice within
192Lord Lyndhurst
 proposed the omission of the words directing the Recorder of Dublin to hold his court at such times, besides those which he should appoint, "as the Lord-lieutenant should from time to time think fit to direct." He was sure that no person could, in the discharge of his duties, exceed the present Recorder of Dublin.Lord Lyndhurst
 said, that the higher the opinion which he entertained of the recorder, the more anxious was he for his attendance. Could the noble Lord state that the Recorder of Dublin held sessions more frequently than the Recorder of Cork? Was he aware that six weeks often passed without a gaol delivery?The Marquess of Lansdowne
 said, that on more than one occasion had the judges impressed upon the Lord Mayor of Dublin, on ins presentation to them for their approbation, the necessity of endeavouring to obtain a more frequent gaol delivery.The Marquess of Normanby
, in presenting several petitions in favour of non-intrusion, said, that the number of signatures attached to petitions in favour of non-intrusion amounted to 166,734, while those to petitions in favour of intrusion amounted only to 4,161: from this their Lordships might gather what was the general feeling in Scotland on the subject.The Marquess of Breadalbane
161 said, that notwithstanding the statement of the noble Earl as to the manufacture of petitions, he could assure their Lordships there was one general feeling throughout Scotland in favour of non-intrusion; and the very announcement of the noble Earl that these petitions were to be found in nurseries, and that ladies were engaged in procuring signatures, showed that that feeling existed in the inmost recesses of every domestic
161The Marquess of Breadalbane
160 said, that on this, as well as on several previous occasions, the noble Marquess had referred to the number of petitions and to the signatures which were affixed to them that had been presented in favour of what was called the principle of non-intrusion, and the noble Marquess had pointed to these petitions as a proof that the principle was universally adopted in Scotland. Now, he would endeavour to show the very fallacious testimony on which the noble Marquess
160The Earl of Aberdeen
226 entirely concurred with his noble Friend opposite in hoping that it might be possible for the petitioners, consistently with the forms of the House, to be heard at their Lordships' bar, and his reason for wishing it, was the same as that of his noble Friend—that he was confident the more they were heard, and the greater opportunity there was given for bringing forward their opinions, wishes, feelings, and intentions, the stronger would be the impression, if any thing could strengthen the impression now existing both in that House and the country at large, of the conduct—he would use no harsher epithet—of those whom the petitioners professed to represent. He hoped and trusted, that during the period of the residence of the deputation in London, the persons with whom they were in communication, would have the honesty and the good sense to tell them
226Lord Brougham
 could only say, in answer to what his noble Friend had just declared, that he neither hoped nor believed, that the General Assembly would be supported in its present proceedings by the people of that country.Lord Brougham
 did not believe, that the General Assembly would be supported in its present course by the people of Scotland. He knew that a great number of petitions on this subject had been got up, but he believed they had been got up under the influence of those very persons who wished to bring counsel to their Lordships' bar to be heard against the bill. He so entirely coincided with the noble Earl opposite, in what he had said, that he would not attempt to weaken the force of his remarks by adding to them.The Earl of Camperdown
252251250249 entirely agreed in every word that had fallen from the noble Duke. He was convinced that in passing this bill, Parliament would be committing an act tending to the separation of our North American colonies. And yet, in what position were their Lordships placed? In the House of Commons this great question had not attracted so much attention as it deserved; not one-fourth of that House had voted upon the question whether the bill should pass. There were for it 156, and against it 6, and that being the case, it was impossible not to say, that the general feeling of the House of Commons was favourable to this measure. The absence of some Members and the votes of those who were present made that perfectly clear. They had likewise the approval of this measure by the majority of the Assembly of Upper Canada, who, however, took some time to arrive at the conclusions they did. But then they were told, and they saw, that the result of this measure would be to make them the lords of Lower Canada, and they were also told that one of its conditions was, that the surplus of the revenues of Lower Canada should go to the payment of their debt. It was not, then, surprising that men not being practical statesmen should have been led away by such delusive expectations as these. There might have existed in their minds, as he regretted to say there existed but too much in the minds of the people of this country, the remains of those feelings of hostility towards the people of Lower Canada, which were the consequence of the events of the last few years; and he felt that their Lordships were not now called upon to legislate in that temper of fairness and impartiality in which alone measures of this important character ought to be adopted. This being the state of things, what hope had he, if he joined the noble Duke in saying "not content" to this measure, that its rejection this year would be a final rejection? If he thought it would be a final rejection, no one would more heartily join in voting against the second reading of the bill. He feared, however, that it would not. He feared that the power of the House of Commons, the feeling of the people of this country, and the misled opinion of a large portion of the people of Upper Canada, would inevitably press the question again before the House, and Ministers being unanimous
252251250249Lord Ellenbrough
267266265264263 said, notwithstanding the course which this debate had taken, and the perfectly fair line of proceeding adopted by his noble Friend the noble Duke opposite, and by the noble Baron, and although it was probable that many other opportunities would arise for discussing the principle of the bill while its details were in Committee, yet, as this was the stage appointed for the consideration of the principle, he felt that it would not be inconvenient if he were now to state the view which he took of the question, more especially with reference to the course which, two years ago, he, with little support from their Lordships, had thought it his duty to take with respect to this subject. What he would have to say to their Lordships on the present occasion would embrace two views of the subject; first, whether this measure, in itself, and with reference to the time of its introduction, was justifiable; and, in the next place, looking rather to expediency than to strict justice, what might be expected to be the future consequences of it. As regarded the first of these points, their Lordships would at once perceive that he was about to refer to that which had been already broached by more than one of their Lordships, which had not been avoided by the noble Viscount who opened the discussion, and which had been alluded to by the noble Duke—the question of how
267266265264263Lord Brougham
 would only allude to one of the observations of the noble Earl opposite, in which he said, that the gentlemen who had united in this petition were to be considered only as private individuals. He could not but think that their Lordships should consider them as representing the Church of Scotland. The noble Earl knew, that the General Assembly had by a large majority, come to a decision directly at variance with the principles and details of his bill, and that this committee was deputed by the General Assembly to watch over the progress of the bill, and take measures to oppose it. He was sorry to hear the noble Earl assume, that those gentlemen who had been appointed by the majority of the General Assembly, were not to be considered by the House as representing the Church of Scotland, but merely as unauthorized individuals. As to the remark of the noble and learned Lord below, concerning the support which the Church of Scotland would find in that House, he could only say, that whether or not it might be supported by any great portion of the inhabitants of this division of the empire, it would be supported by the people of Scotland.The Marquess of Breadalbane
224223 said, he rose to present a petition relative to the bill then before their Lordships, having relation to the Church of Scotland. He begged leave to call their Lordships' attention particularly to this petition, not only on account of the extraordinary interest which the subject had excited in Scotland, but also with reference to its own intrinsic merits. The
224223The Marquess of Breadalbane
262261"No end, in wandering mazes lost."260 said, after what had been stated by the noble Duke and the noble Baron near him, he did not mean to trouble their Lordships at any length. He did not complain of the course which had been taken upon the present occasion; but he did complain, that all the discussions which had taken place on this subject, had been conducted as though Parliament was only looking to the interests of Upper and Lower Canada, without at the same time directing its views a little to the great interests of the mother country, as connected with her colonial system. On a former occasion, he had stated his opinions on this subject, and those opinions which had been referred to in the course of the present debate led him not only to set a high value upon colonies of this description, but also to set an equal value upon the interest of this country. The noble Viscount opposite (Viscount Melbourne) had stated that he thought this was matter of growing opinion in this country; for his (Lord Ashburton's) own part, he should be glad to believe such was the case, but certainly he had seen little in the conduct of either House of Parliament to induce that belief. Not undervaluing these colonies—not undervaluing the vast extent of the commerce with them—not undervaluing the great interest the country properly took in her children (he might call them) who were planted there, he still was of opinion, that the Imperial Parliament was constantly mistaken, looking to the peculiar description of the population there, in supposing these colonies were for ever to be governed from Downing-street. If such were not the opinions of the people of England, a repetition of them here would not do much
262261"No end, in wandering mazes lost."260Lord Ashburton
257256255254253 would not trouble the House with more than two or
257256255254253The Marquess of Lansdowne
247 observed, that with respect to this measure, he had no hesitation in expressing his opinion that it was a dangerous experiment. He was fully aware of the misapprehensions which had gone abroad with respect to the state of Canada, and he had reason to know that many even of their Lordships were impressed with the idea that the French Canadians were in a state of organized resistance to the dominion of this country and to British connexion. By whomsoever those opinions might be entertained, he for one must consider them fallacious. He did not believe, that in any of the colonies of this country, her Majesty had more loyal subjects than the French population of Lower Canada. If the few which were misled were to be considered as the population, there might be some reason for holding such opinions, but such would be a very unfair conclusion. He could assert from his own knowledge, that the great body of the French Canadians were loyal and disposed to maintain the connexion with this country. Rebellion and revolution were hateful crimes, but let them see what were the causes of the late outbreak. One single district alone on the banks of the Richelieu river had been affected with discontent. That district had been the scene of the most violently contested elections, and bitter animosities had in consequence sprung up. On the north bank of the St. Lawrence only one outrage had taken place—he should rather call it an improper assembly—and that had happened in the county of the Lake of Two Mountains, which had also been the scene of strongly contested elections. In all the upper districts the greatest tranquillity had prevailed, and, at the end of three weeks, the whole country had been tranquillized. With respect to the measure before the House, who could say it was just? They gave to a population of 200,000 or 300,000 the same representation which was given to a population of 700,000 or 800,000. Besides that injustice, they were to saddle the debt of the upper province upon the lower province, which had no debt of its own. Could any thing be more arbitrary and unfair
247The Earl of Gosford
258 fell, that this was a measure, the result of which was very questionable; and, if it failed, the effect would be irreparable, and, as the noble Duke staled, the colony of Canada would be lost. He, however, did not wish to press this objection to a greater extent, as he had taken the resolution of not voting against this bill. There were many practical reasons which induced him to doubt what would be the operation of this measure in a country of such immense extent, and which was so deficient in the means of communication, and in which there existed such a difference in the laws and in the administration of justice in the two provinces, as well as in the habits and the feelings of the people. These, in his mind, constituted great difficulties in the way o a union between Lower and Upper Canada and occasioned painful feelings in his mind as to the probable results of this measure It was stated that the people of Upper
258The Earl of Ripon
225 said, he would now take the liberty of stating, that it was his intention to move, that the House should go into Committee on this bill on the day after to-morrow. As to what might be the pleasure of their Lordships, and how far it was consistent with the orders of their Lordships' House to hear counsel on a bill of this nature, and in this stage he would leave it to their Lordships to determine. In all the cases mentioned by the noble Marquess, when counsel were heard, the bills were in another stage. But he confessed, that, notwithstanding, he was very anxious that that these petitioners should be heard by counsel; because he wished their Lordships to hear those who spoke the sentiments of the prominent part of the General Assembly state distinctly what their real pretensions were, and what they really expected to be done? As to the petition itself, a great part of it was against the law of patronage, established by the Act of Queen Anne in 1712—and the complaint connected with that, was, in fact, at the bottom of the whole of these proceedings. The rest of the petition was against the judgment of their Lordships' House, declaring and establishing that law. The bill introduced by him was objected to, because it fully recognized the judgment of that House, as declaring unequivocally, the law of the land on this subject. He wished to hear counsel on this question, because pretensions were put forward, which he was sure, unless their Lordships heard the parties at the bar, they never would hear advanced in that House. He, for one, was anxious, therefore, that the prayer of the petition should be complied with. He could desire no better recommendation for the bill then before their Lordships' House than the arguments and objections urged by these parties against it. Therefore, if it were consistent with the order of their
225The Earl of Aberdeen
239238"All parties look with extreme dissatisfaction at the present slate of government. Those of British origin, attached by feeling and education to a constitutional form of Government, although they acquiesced at the time in the establishment of arbitrary power as a refuge from a yet worse despotism, submit with impatience to its continuance, and regret the loss, through no fault of their own, of what they consider as their birthright. Those of the French Canadians who remained loyal to their Sovereign, and true to British connection share the same feelings. Whilst among those who are less well affected or more easily deceived, the suspension of all constitutional rights affords to reckless and unprincipled agitators a constant topic of excitement. All parties, therefore, without exception, demand a change. On the nature of that change there exists undoubtedly some difference of opinion. In a country so lately convulsed, and where passions are still so much excited, extreme opinions cannot but exist, and accordingly while some persons advocate an immediate return to the former constitution of this province, others propose either the entire exclusion from political privileges of all of French origin, or the partial dismemberment of the province, with the view of conferring on one portion a representative system, while maintaining in the
238237"The union of the two provinces would secure to Upper Canada the present great objects of its desire. All disputes as to the division or amount of the revenue would cease. The surplus revenue of Lower Canada would supply the deficiency of that part of the upper province; and the province, thus placed beyond the possibility of locally jobbing the surplus revenue, which it cannot reduce, would, I think, gain as much by the arrangement as the province which would thus find a means of paying the interest of its debt. Indeed, it would be by no means unjust to place this burden on Lower Canada, inasmuch as the great public works for which the debt was contracted are as much the concern of one province as of the other. Nor is it to be supposed, that whatever may have been the mismanagement, in which a great part of the debt originated, the canals of Upper Canada will always be a source of loss, instead of profit. The completion of the projected and necessary line of public works would be promoted by such an union. The access to the sea would be secured to Upper Canada, The
237236"I still entertain no doubt that in the upper province the districts to the eastward of the river Trent and bay of Quinté are strongly in favour of measures being adopted for reuniting Upper and Lower Canada, and that the majority of the settlers to the westward of the midland district concur with them, although there are many of them altogether opposed to the project. In the lower province, I have already stated, that the population of British origin earnestly desire the union, and that the Canadian French population are not so adverse to the measure as they formerly were."235"It is my intention to appoint ten additional members to the Special Council; and there is every reason to believe, that if the proposed increased number can be selected from the most influential persons in each district, the Special Council will be enabled to pass many important measures, which will afford general satisfaction, and be conducive to the welfare and future tranquillity of Lower Canada, with reference to the prospect of its union with the upper province. It is evidently desired by
235234233"I am far from concurring in the censure which the Assembly and its advocates have attempted to cast on the acts of the Legislative Council. I have no hesitation in saying, that many of the bills which it is most severely
233232231l.230229228 said, it now became his duty to recommend to their Lordships' calm and impartial consideration, a bill which had been sent up from the other House of Parliament, entitled "An Act to re-unite the Colonies of Upper and Lower Canada, and for the government of Canada." This bill came to their Lordships, recommended by the assent of the Special Council of Lower Canada, of the Legislative Council of Upper Canada, of the Legislative Assembly of Upper Canada, by the opinion of those who had lately exercised her Majesty's authority in those provinces, by the authority of Lord Durham and the present Governor-General, and by the petitions which had been presented to their Lordships from very many of her Majesty's subjects inhabiting those colonies. It also came to their Lordships, recommended by the approval of the other House of Parliament, where, although it did not pass entirely without objection or remonstrance, yet it passed with so little of either, that he thought he was entitled to say, that it had received, if not the unanimous, certainly the general approbation of that assembly. It was on these grounds, and with this justification, that the bill was now submitted to the consideration of their Lordships. He would be trifling with their Lordships if he were to waste a single word in pressing on their Lordships' attention the great importance of this measure. Its importance spoke for itself, it involved the commercial interests of many of their Lordships' fellow-subjects in that part of the world to which it related; it involved the character and reputation of the Legislature, and what was, if possible, more serious still, the future well-being and prosperity of those great colonies, and the happiness of that large and increasing population which Divine Providence had placed under our care, and committed to our superintendence. Under these circumstances he was sure it was unnecessary for him to say a single word with respect to the paramount magnitude and importance of the measure which their Lordships had now to consider. A remarkable spectacle was certainly presented when we looked back upon the course of the history of this country with respect to its foreign and colonial dependencies. Ever since this country, said the noble Viscount,
239238"All parties look with extreme dissatisfaction at the present slate of government. Those of British origin, attached by feeling and education to a constitutional form of Government, although they acquiesced at the time in the establishment of arbitrary power as a refuge from a yet worse despotism, submit with impatience to its continuance, and regret the loss, through no fault of their own, of what they consider as their birthright. Those of the French Canadians who remained loyal to their Sovereign, and true to British connection share the same feelings. Whilst among those who are less well affected or more easily deceived, the suspension of all constitutional rights affords to reckless and unprincipled agitators a constant topic of excitement. All parties, therefore, without exception, demand a change. On the nature of that change there exists undoubtedly some difference of opinion. In a country so lately convulsed, and where passions are still so much excited, extreme opinions cannot but exist, and accordingly while some persons advocate an immediate return to the former constitution of this province, others propose either the entire exclusion from political privileges of all of French origin, or the partial dismemberment of the province, with the view of conferring on one portion a representative system, while maintaining in the
238237"The union of the two provinces would secure to Upper Canada the present great objects of its desire. All disputes as to the division or amount of the revenue would cease. The surplus revenue of Lower Canada would supply the deficiency of that part of the upper province; and the province, thus placed beyond the possibility of locally jobbing the surplus revenue, which it cannot reduce, would, I think, gain as much by the arrangement as the province which would thus find a means of paying the interest of its debt. Indeed, it would be by no means unjust to place this burden on Lower Canada, inasmuch as the great public works for which the debt was contracted are as much the concern of one province as of the other. Nor is it to be supposed, that whatever may have been the mismanagement, in which a great part of the debt originated, the canals of Upper Canada will always be a source of loss, instead of profit. The completion of the projected and necessary line of public works would be promoted by such an union. The access to the sea would be secured to Upper Canada, The
237236"I still entertain no doubt that in the upper province the districts to the eastward of the river Trent and bay of Quinté are strongly in favour of measures being adopted for reuniting Upper and Lower Canada, and that the majority of the settlers to the westward of the midland district concur with them, although there are many of them altogether opposed to the project. In the lower province, I have already stated, that the population of British origin earnestly desire the union, and that the Canadian French population are not so adverse to the measure as they formerly were."235"It is my intention to appoint ten additional members to the Special Council; and there is every reason to believe, that if the proposed increased number can be selected from the most influential persons in each district, the Special Council will be enabled to pass many important measures, which will afford general satisfaction, and be conducive to the welfare and future tranquillity of Lower Canada, with reference to the prospect of its union with the upper province. It is evidently desired by
235234233"I am far from concurring in the censure which the Assembly and its advocates have attempted to cast on the acts of the Legislative Council. I have no hesitation in saying, that many of the bills which it is most severely
233232231l.230229228Viscount Melbourne
; Yes, yes; there is a distinct declaration on the subject.Viscount Melbourne
272271270269ad Grœcas Kalendas;268: His noble and learned Friend (Lord Brougham) congratulated their Lordships on the absence of party feeling in this discussion. It was certainly free from all party heat; but he questioned the prudence with which it was conducted. Their Lordships might sometimes deem it right to support a measure
272271270269ad Grœcas Kalendas;268Viscount Melbourne
259: With respect to the proposed income for the future officers of the government in Canada, he would merely say, that many loyal subjects
259The Duke of Wellington
246245244243242241240 said, that having had referred to his judgment the question of the defence of these provinces, and having been of necessity engaged in the consideration of their constitution, their resources, their acts, and their proceedings, and having the highest regard for the people which inhabited them, and the sincerest wish to secure for them a permanent union with this country, and feeling how important that union was, to the power, the influence, and the prosperity of the British empire, he felt most anxious upon this measure, and he therefore intreated their Lordships to give him their attention for a few minutes. He would first make a few observations as to the last point in the address of the noble Viscount, where he stated that it was absolutely necessary that they should come to a decision upon this question, and finally settle the government of these provinces. Now, this was exactly the point upon which he differed with the noble Lord opposite. In his opinion, the time was not come at which they could with safety make that settlement. He felt quite sure that they had not got the better of the temper which had occasioned the insurrection in these provinces, nor of the desire to encourage it in a neighbouring country. His wish, therefore, was, to entreat the noble Viscount to take full time to consider this important question before he hurried it through Parliament. Indeed, he felt quite sure, that the bill would require some considerable alterations in the Committee of their Lordships' House. He thought that they would require to summon the Legislature of Upper Canada again; and he felt convinced that they would find, before the Session was over, that they must take it on their own responsibility, to suspend this measure to some future period. He felt the greatest anxiety upon this subject He knew that
246245244243242241240The Duke of Wellington
 had no intention to attack the Legislature of Upper Canada in any of the observations that had fallen from him; he, however, was not aware of the existence of any papers that gave an unbiassed opinion of the Legislature of Upper Canada in favour of this union.The Duke of Wellington
"That this truth (as the petitioners called it) is at the present moment receiving painful, but instructive illustration, from the state of the Church of Scotland, which exhibits the inconsistency of rights being claimed inherently as their own by bodies salaried and supported by the State, and in active opposition to the law of the land, as it has been promulgate by the supreme and only competent authority. The petitioners cannot sympathize with them in their present conflict, because no church is entitled to lay claim to independence, while it actually depends on the State for its support; and because what these parties ask falls far short of what they would be entitled to demand if they were not thus connected with the State. The petitioners then pray, that your Lordships will refuse all applications for grants of public money for Church Extension, and that you will take all proper measures for the separation of Church and State"362 rose to present a petition agreed to at a public meeting of the inhabitants of Edinburgh and its neighbourhood, which had been publicly convened, and which was signed as one account said, by 19,000 persons, and, as another stated, by upwards of 16,000 persons. He called their Lordships' serious attention (and particularly the attention of the noble Marquess (Breadalbane) behind him) to this petition, as affording informa-
"That this truth (as the petitioners called it) is at the present moment receiving painful, but instructive illustration, from the state of the Church of Scotland, which exhibits the inconsistency of rights being claimed inherently as their own by bodies salaried and supported by the State, and in active opposition to the law of the land, as it has been promulgate by the supreme and only competent authority. The petitioners cannot sympathize with them in their present conflict, because no church is entitled to lay claim to independence, while it actually depends on the State for its support; and because what these parties ask falls far short of what they would be entitled to demand if they were not thus connected with the State. The petitioners then pray, that your Lordships will refuse all applications for grants of public money for Church Extension, and that you will take all proper measures for the separation of Church and State"362Lord Brougham
369 said, it was most true that his noble Friend had cautiously abstained from giving any opinion whatever on the great question which had now been agitating Scotland for the last year and a-half. His noble Friend need hardly have taken the trouble to bring that fact to the recollection of their Lordships, for every one must have been aware of it. He hardly thought that the reproach which the noble Viscount had thrown upon his noble Friend behind him, of having come 100 years too late for the settlement of this question, came with a very good grace from him. Their Lordships were all aware what was the course, or rather the no course, taken by her Majesty's Government on this question. They had had full warning at the time of the decision pronounced by the House in the Aucterarder case what was the real state of affairs in Scotland. He had stated on a former occasion, and he repeated now, that he thought the duty of her Majesty's Government at that time, considering the nature and extent of the existing controversy, was to have directed their most earnest and anxious attention to it, and to have thrown the whole weight of Government into the scale of the law of the land, in the way best calculated to settle the dispute. That they had not done; but they had continued hesitating and doubting whether they were to do something or nothing, and at last they resolved, pretty late in the course of the Session, that they would do nothing
369The Earl of Haddington
 thought, the bill would confer large powers on the Church of Scotland, because it would transfer the veto from the people to the presbyteries. It would, however, restrict the independent jurisdiction claimed by the Church in spiritual matters.The Earl of Roseberry
 begged leave to state that he had received from the north of Ireland a variety of opinions universally favourable to the bill, in which the Presbyterians of that part of the empire took much interest.The Marquess of Londonderry
 said, that there was this difference between the motion which the noble Marquess had made upon the subject last week, and the motion which he had brought forward that evening: In the former motion he had moved for papers which had existence; in the present he had moved for a paper which had no existence, at least, if it had existence, her Majesty's Government had no cognizance of it. With respect to the comments which the noble Marquess had passed on this transaction on a former evening, he had only to observe that he had received a letter that afternoon from Mr. Litton, the stipendiary magistrate, stating that the consequence of it had been the complete re-establishment of peace in that part of the country. The noble Marquess was trifling with the time of the House in bringing a motion of this insignificant character a second time under the consideration of their Lordships.The Marquess of Normanby
 protested against the right assumed by the noble Marquess opposite, to read his noble Friend a lecture for bringing, what he considered, trifling matters before the House. No doubt his noble Friend near him attributed greater importance to the subject than the noble Marquess was inclined to assign to it.The Earl of Haddington
l. would postpone the motion until the noble Marquess should have an opportunity of inquiring whether the 50l.The Marquess of Westmeath
 having moved the third reading of the Payment of Wages Bill,Lord Monson
 said, he had used the word "promoted" in speaking of the recent ecclesiastical proceedings in Scotland; and what he meant was, not that those proceedings had directly promoted the principle of separation, but that they acted as stimulants to the hopes of those who were anxious for separation of Church and State; who, when they saw what was done in the Church of Scotland, would be induced more strongly to hope that their wishes would ultimately be acceded to; and who would, in consequence, be induced to redouble their exertions to carry their favourite object.Lord Brougham
 suggested that the bill should be withdrawn for the present, to allow time for its provisions to be fully considered.The Marquess of Salisbury
 said, the bill had been before their Lordships since the 5th of May, and had before met with no opposition. He was convinced that the measure was calculated to do much good, but at the same time he was perfectly willing to withdraw it for the present, to allow time for consideration.Lord Monson
 said, he had given notice of his intentions to move, that counsel be heard at their Lordships' bar on behalf of the parties whose petition he had had the honour to present at the last sitting of their Lordships. Owing, however, to the short period which had elapsed since he gave that notice, it had been found totally impossible to instruct counsel properly on a question of such importance. He hoped, therefore, that the noble Earl would postpone proceeding till counsel could be fully instructed.The Marquess of Breadalbane
Brougham:363 said, as the
Brougham:363The Marquess of Breadalbane
371 said, that this bill, which was to be extended to railroads, canals, and public roads, would, in his opinion, be productive of the most serious inconvenience. It would be impossible to carry it into operation on railroads, and it was only applicable to a limited number of cases. It was calculated also to increase the number of beer-shops, which he was sure none of their Lordships would be willing to do. Workmen on railroads would be subjected to much difficulty in procuring provisions, and the public also would suffer much inconvenience. If the noble Lord persisted in pressing the bill, he should feel it to be
371Lord Portman
 said, the question in the first place, was, whether their Lordships would consent to hear counsel at all or not. For his own part, nothing would give him greater pleasure than that counsel should be heard. But it was for their Lordships to determine whether, consistently with the convenience of the proceedings of that House, they would consent to take that course on a bill of this nature. He had no objection that counsel should be heard now, but he could not consent to postpone going into Committee.The Earl of Aberdeen
364"Cum tot sustineas et tanta negotia solus." was not surprised at what had fallen from the noble Marquess after the notice for the hearing of counsel which the noble Marquess had given on a former evening. He believed that the presence of the noble Marquess would be very necessary, that he might support and countenance the cause which he had so warmly taken up—
364"Cum tot sustineas et tanta negotia solus."The Earl of Aberdeen
368367 said, the noble Viscount had given a decisive proof that he at least did not understand the present state of the question. The noble Viscount was quite mistaken in supposing that the dominant party in the Assembly had any wish for the abolition of patronage, or that they had even talked of it. It was true that many persons in the Church did view with an eye of great disfavour the exercise of patronage, but that was not the question involved in this bill. The question was, whether the Church should exercise a certain power which implied the repeal of Acts of Parliament by which the Church was governed; but it had nothing to do with patronage. If their Lordships agreed to allow them to possess that power, which by their decision of last year they had denied them, it was very possible that patronage might be abolished in a short time by their own act, in spite of the laws by which it was secured; but he thought their Lordships would scarcely permit the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland to repeal Acts of Parliament, and, that before they consented to any measure of this kind they would themselves legislate on the subject. The noble Viscount seemed to suppose that he had made a mistake as to the schism. He (the Earl of Aberdeen) knew very well that a schism in the Church had taken place a century ago, but he very much feared that another schism might take place next month. The General Assembly, in the exercise of their usurped power, had issued their orders to their commission to proceed contrary to law against certain ministers of the Church who had opposed the majority of the Assembly, and determined to obey the law of the land as declared by their Lordships. The consequence would be, that in August, when the commission was to proceed against those ministers, all the ministers of the Church who adhered to the opinion that the law should be obeyed would take part with those suspended ministers. This would render each and all of them guilty of contumacy against the dominant party in the General Assembly, and they would thereby incur the penalty of deposition. That was what he (the Earl of Aberdeen) called a schism in the Church; one-half of the clergy would be in this condition. The difference between the schism and that which took place a century ago would be, that those who resisted the General Assembly would
368367The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, that the schism to which he alluded, as existing in the Church of Scotland, was connected with the subject of patronage. He did not believe that the manifestation of that schism would be prevented by the bill of his noble Friend. With respect to the bill itself, and the important questions opened by it, he begged to be understood as having given no opinion whatever upon them. He had only said, that he thought it unwise and imprudent to press the measure at the present time, and under present circumstances.Viscount Melbourne
"Pulveris exigui jactu compressa quiescent.""Hi motus animorum, atque hæc certamina tanta365 said, he must repeat on this occasion what he had formerly expressed, that in his opinion, both with reference to the general principle, and to the regulations of this bill, it would be imprudent, inexpedient, nay, pernicious, to proceed with it. It was not now desirable to legislate on this subject. In the present state of the question, men's minds were greatly agitated, and he felt that it was impossible, such being the state of their feelings, to compose or settle the dispute by this bill. In fact, the only effect of this proceeding would be to excite fresh acrimony and additional animosities, and to encourage Members of that, as well as of the other House of Parliament, to arrange themselves on both sides to prevent that impartial consideration of the question, which, if fairly followed up, would at a future time lead to satisfactory results. Therefore, he contended, that the course pursued by his noble Friend opposite was not the most favourable or the most prudent, either with respect to the
"Pulveris exigui jactu compressa quiescent.""Hi motus animorum, atque hæc certamina tanta365Viscount Melbourne
408 had to present to their Lordships a petition from the parishioners of Marnock, approving of the conduct of the General Assembly in the case of the suspension of the seven ministers of the Presbytery of Strathbogie. The petition, went much into detail, he would content himself with stating the substance of it. The petitioners disapproved of the conduct of the seven ministers of Strathbogie in not obeying the directions of the commission of the General Assembly, their ecclesiastical superiors; and they applauded the conduct of the General Assembly in supporting the jurisdiction and the liberties of the Church against the intrusion of objectionable ministers. They earnestly trusted and hoped that the Church of Scotland would not suffer from the attempts of any of her own office-bearers to set at defiance her just authority, and overbear the religious privileges and conscientious feelings of her people, and they prayed that their Lordships would adopt such measures as may seem best for reconciling the differences which have occurred between the civil and the ecclesias-
408The Earl of Rosebery
409"Joseph Crabtree, late of Barnsley, in the
409 had to present a petition to which he wished to call the particular attention of the noble Secretary for the Home Department, as it contained a very serous complaint of ill-usage in one of her Majesty's prisons. The noble and learned Lord read an extract from the petition which stated that:—
409"Joseph Crabtree, late of Barnsley, in the
409Lord Brougham
 would immediately make inquiries into the truth of the statements, but he was of opinion that they were greatly exaggerated.The Marquess of Normanby
 wished to put a question to the noble Marquess opposite. He understood, from the public newspapers, that the Poor-law Commissioners had sent forth instructions for an inquiry, similar to that which had been set on foot in this country, as to the cause of fevers and contagious disorders amongst the poorer classes in Scotland, and the best mode of prevention. There could be-but one opinion on the mind of every man of humanity as to the propriety of instituting inquiries of this kind. He did not, however, think the Poor-law Commissioners the proper parties to whom such an inquiry should be intrusted. Besides, he was apprehensive that the appointment of inspectors, by the Poor-law Commissioners, would lead the people to fear that an attempt was about to be made to tamper with the system which at present prevailed in Scotland with reference to the care of the poor. The inspectors were instructed to inquire into the rents paid by the poorer clashes, the amount of wages they received, the ratio of expenditure, the capability of maintenance, &c. Now, he thought it would be better for those persons to confine their inquiries simply to the prevalence of disease, and the causes from which it was supposed to arise. He believed, if such questions were demanded, very few persons, clergymen or others, would be found willing to answer them. He should, therefore, ask whether such instructions as he referred to had been sent out? If so, what those instructions specifically were? and whether the commissioners had any power to inquire into the working of the Scotch Poor-law system? If instructions had been given, he wished to know whether the noble Marquess had any objection to lay them on the Table, together with a copy of the circular by which they were accompanied.The Earl of Haddington
411 said, an inquiry into the cause of infectious disease having been set on foot in one district in England, had afterwards been extended throughout the country. In consequence, the town-council of Edinburgh, and the College of Physicians and Surgeons there, requested that a similar course should be adopted with respect to Scotland, and subsequently a petition to the same effect had been sent from Glasgow. Upon these representations, he was induced to believe
411The Marquess of Normanby
413l.412 rose for the purpose of moving for a select committee to inquire into certain elections of Poor-law guardians and other matters relating to the Poor-law Act in Ireland. He admitted that the recent Poor-law Act was a matter of vast importance to Ireland. He had opposed the introduction of it both in that House and elsewhere, and in so doing had exposed himself to the reproach of seeking his own interest as a landed proprietor. Such a view had never entered his mind. He held documents at that moment in his hand, which proved beyond all possibility of doubt that he had been but too true a prophet of the results of this measure. He believed that it had been brought in with the best intentions by her Majesty's Ministers, but unfortunately it had been converted by a certain party in Ireland into a mere political scheme. The evils of it had been immediate and disastrous. One of its leading objects had been to secure a proper provision of guardians. This was to be accomplished by votes taken in manuscript, which were to be returned to certain officers named in the bill, who were to declare on whom the majority of suffrages had fallen. In most parts of Ireland—and he held in his hand the returns from nineteen counties—these elections had been accompanied by the most violent interference on the part of the Roman Catholic priests. The main characteristic which marked all the elections, arid particularly in the western parts of Ireland, was the combined efforts of the Roman Catholic priests to get their own partisans chosen into these offices, and thereby to put down the landed interest. Mobs had gone about to intimidate electors; armed parties had been employed in the night to take away from others their polling papers; individuals had gone about in the day-time either to get the voting papers from the parishioners, or to
413l.412The Marquess of Westmeath
ex-officio416415414ex-officio thought that the noble Marquess had selected his cases somewhat capriciously. He had commenced by stating with perfect candour that he had been originally an opponent of the Poor-law, both in their Lordships' House and elsewhere. The noble Marquess had proceeded to observe that the working of this system in Ireland had assumed an entirely political aspect. He was ready to admit, that in some parts of Ireland there had been partial instances of political bias; but he thought that this had been also observable in the case of the election of the ex-officio416415414ex-officioThe Marquess of Normanby
l.l.419l.l. thought, that the noble Marquess had passed rather lightly over several of the charges which had been brought forward in support of this motion, and that one in particular which related to the South Dublin Union. It appeared, that in that union 314 houses had been valued at a certain rate by the valuators in which rate an alteration had been made for reasons best known to those who made it. The value of those 314 houses had been raised from various sums to 10l.l.419l.l.The Earl of Glengall
 said, that the prayer of this petition called upon their Lordships to adopt some measure to reconcile the differences between the civil and ecclesiastical courts; but the petition itself was manifestly directed against the solemnly delivered judgment of their Lordships' House. The noble Earl had given no opinion on that judgment, and, as he had said nothing against it, he was warranted in concluding that the noble Earl coincided in its justice. It was very proper that the petitioners should pray, that an end should be put to the present state of things with respect to this question; but he must observe, that neither this year nor last year had any petitions been received on the subject from the General Assembly. No: the petition then before their Lordships stated, "That the Church was engaged in a negotiation for the settlement of the whole matter in dispute." In the course of that negotiation, it might be attempted to impose terms which could not be acceded to. The Assembly did not come before their Lordships as they ought to do, but they came before their Lordships as a party negociating with the Legislature for a satisfactory settlement of this question. The only complaint made against the seven ministers mentioned in the petition was, that they had obeyed the law. No human wisdom or ingenuity could devise any other charge against them. A decree was pronounced by a competent tribunal, to which they were obliged to yield obedience, otherwise they would have been liable to an action for damages. Their obedience to that decree was the whole matter of complaint urged by the petitioners against these ministers who, if they had disobeyed the law, would have been exposed to a legal proceeding.The Earl of Aberdeen
418417 said, when this bill was under discussion in their Lordships' House, it was obvious that the execution of its provisions would be a matter of considerable difficulty, and he
418417The Duke of Wellington
 suggested that it would be advisable to refer it to a Select Committee.The Marquess of Salisbury
 expressed a hope that the machinery of the bill would be simplified. That machinery was at present extremely complicated; and the expense that must be incurred under its provisions, was so great, that he feared the measure would not be attended with any beneficial effect.The Earl of Wicklow
l.434 rose to move the second reading of the Chimney Sweepers Bill, which came before their Lordships very powerfully supported. It was not a favourite measure merely with some one particular class, but the general feeling of the mass of the people was in favour of the measure. So strong was the feeling, that he was convinced, if their Lordships passed this bill, they would give more public satisfaction than by almost any other measure. The last bill that passed on this subject was nearly inoperative, in consequence of the ease with which it was evaded. In favour of this bill all parties were united; and its provisions were calculated to meet the objections urged against former propositions. Every one of the insurance companies was in favour
l.434The Marquess of Normanby
435 was not an advocate for the employment of boys in this species of vocation. He admitted all the evils that grew out of, and were connected with it; and he wished as sincerely and as warmly as his noble Friend opposite to put an end to the system, if, at the same time, he were well assured that security would accompany the abolition of the practice. In his opinion, their
435The Earl of Haddington
436 must tender to the noble Marquess his most humble and hearty thanks for having stated, so ably the evils which attended the present system, and the necessity of putting an end to it. It seemed that there was not much difference of opinion, if any, on the subject of this bill, and he thought, therefore, that if a committee were agreed to, it need not take up much time in inquiry. He presumed that their Lordships would go into committee with their minds made up upon the misery engendered by the present system and the wickedness which it occasioned, which was greater than the amount of the misery. If these two points were taken to be admitted, the questions into which a committee of their Lordships would inquire would resolve themselves into this—whether the system of sweeping by machinery might be adopted with safety to life and property? He wished, however, that the committee would direct its attention to one point, which was of importance. In those flues which could not be swept by machinery, he apprehended it would be found that there was the greatest difficulty and danger when boys were employed. Now, he trusted that their Lordships would think that children should not be permitted to sweep those flues, unless it could be
436The Bishop of Exeter
 wished to state in a few words to their Lordships the reasons which induced him to oppose any inquiry. All the insurance-offices in London but one would not have adopted machinery, unless it had been satisfactorily proved that machinery could safely be applied? He had had a good deal of experience in the alteration of old, and the erection of new chimnies, and he was sure that there were not any chimnies which might not be so altered as to admit of being swept by machinery. He thought there was no necessity for further inquiry, and he gave his cordial and hearty support to the bill before the House.Earl De Grey
 observed, that in many old houses it would be almost impossible to alter chimnies in such a manner as to render it practicable to dispense with the assistance of boys, and if this bill passed into a law, property in the country would be placed in a state of great danger.Lord Segrave
 confessed that he would rather place old houses in jeopardy than the life of a fellow-creature. His reason for opposing a select committee was, that the misery and wickedness occasioned by the present system having been admitted, unless it could be proved that it would be impossible to make such alteration in chimnies that they could be swept by machinery, their Lordships would not be justified in prolonging a system which had already destroyed much human life, and so long as it continued would probably be the means of destroying much more.The Bishop of London
437 believed that if this bill passed it would endanger a vast number of edifices in this country. He knew very well that those who lived in cities and towns where chimnies were built in the modern style Would be secure under the operation of this bill, but the feeling in the country among the possessors of old habitations was decidedly against it. He was quite at a loss to know on what grounds an inquiry could be resisted. Not only had their Lordships no information at present, but when a similar bill came up from the other House six years ago a committee of inquiry was appointed, and the result of the inquiry was the conviction of the committee that the bill could not then pass. With regard to the severity and
437The Earl of Wicklow
 felt the difficulty of taking a course which was apparently opposed to the dictates of humanity, but at the same time he could not but think that if this bill were now to pass into a law, it would be very injurious to property in the country. He held in his hand a petition signed by 3,000 inhabitants of Bristol, against the bill, and under these circumstances he should support the proposition of the noble Earl for a reference to a select committee.The Duke of Beaufort
 said, that having several petitions to present on the subject, and as it was one on which he entertained a strong feeling, he would take the liberty of stating in a very few words the reasons why he thought this bill ought to pass, and why there was no necessity for a reference to a committee. He had the honour of being chairman of the select committee to which was referred the bill to which the noble Earl had adverted, and having heard all the evidence and the strongest arguments which the master chimney-sweepers could employ, they were so satisfied on the subject, that the only reason why the committee wished some delay should take place before legislation was, that public attention might be called to the subject. Having heard that many houses, of which he was the owner, could not be swept by machinery, he had had them all altered, and without much difficulty, so as to admit the machinery. The present was a horrible practice, and ought not to be tolerated in a Christian community.The Duke of Sutherland
 was of opinion, that if their Lordships altered this bill so as to exempt these climbing boys from work, they must bring in another bill to arrest the employment of children in all the other public works of the country. The measure was of great importance, and ought not to be adopted without inquiry.The Marquess of Londonderry
 rose for the purpose of making a suggestion that, instead of reading this bill a second time, it should be sent back to the committee appointed under the standing orders, and that that committee report on it.The Duke of Richmond
 was unwilling to oppose this motion, but the inquiry which their Lordships had formerly instituted into this subject had been so searching and so general, that he thought further inquiry unnecessary.The Marquess of Normanby
448 rose to do an act of justice, if not to Ireland, at least to an Irishman. It was with very deep regret, that he had heard the noble Duke say, that in consequence of an allegation in a single part of the learned counsel's speech being contradicted by the noble Marquess, the whole of that speech must be laid aside. He must say, that this was not
448The Bishop of Exeter
 must protest against the misconstruction which had been put upon a passage in his speech by the right rev. Prelate. He had never asserted, that his reason for supporting the bill was that these corporations would be composed of "Radicals." He had admitted, that in all probability they would be found to be Radicals, in the first instance, and that the change to less violent principles would not be so immediate as the change which had taken place in the remodelled corporations of England.The Earl of Wicklow
l.l.l.l.l.442l.441: This was the first time it had been proposed to omit Dublin from the operation of Corporation Reform. The noble and learned Lord had made a novel proposition, but had brought forward no new matter in support of it; for his speech was only a repetition of what they had so lately heard stated with so much ability at the bar of the House. One novelty, however, the noble and learned Lord had introduced. He had found out that this introduction of Dublin into the bill must be displeasing to Mr. O'Connell: and he (Lord Normanby) had never heard that Mr. O'Connell had moved the omission of Dublin from the schedule of this bill. The opinion of Mr. O'Connell, to which the noble and learned Lord alluded, had been delivered six years ago, and it was not unlikely that he had then anticipated that a reform of the corporation of
l.l.l.l.l.442l.441The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that the valuation which had taken place in Dublin under the Poor-law Act had been set aside in the case of upwards of 300 houses, for the purpose of raising their valuation, and thereby conferring on the occupiers of those houses the Parliamentary franchise. And who was to be found at the head of those upon whose supervision and recommendation that change had been made? No less a person than Mr. Seaton, an electioneering agent of Mr. O'Connell's. With that simple fact before his eyes, he could arrive at no other conclusion respecting this bill than that it would have the effect of transferring the power at present possessed by the Protestants into the hands of the Roman Catholics, and of establishing Popish domination in Ireland.The Earl of Carbery
444 had listened with attention to the speeches of counsel at the bar, and to those which had been made that evening by noble Lords near him, and he confessed he could see in them no arguments in favour of the present motion, however there might have been in favour of the bill. If any motion of the kind ought to be made, it should in his mind be for the exclusion of all the other corporations excepting Dublin, which seemed all along to have been the principal corporation in view with the projectors of the bill. The bill was framed particularly for Dublin to which he thought it applicable, while he did not see any inapplicability in it to the other towns. He could not therefore support the proposition of his noble and learned Friend. It was said, that this bill transferred power from the hands of one sect to another, but in his opinion it transferred power from a section to the great body of the people. He did not consider that the power would be transferred so much to the Roman Catholic as to the Radical party, which greatly preponderated in Ireland. Protestants would be found in the corporation of Dublin and those of other great towns, though perhaps not in Tuam, which had for the most part a Roman Catholic population. He considered that any change which might take place would be less of a sectarian than of a political character. He admitted that the altered circumstances of the present time rendered corporations almost unnecessary; but at the same time, if they were retained in this country he was of opinion that a similar principle of legislation should be extended to Ireland. That
444The Earl of Wicklow
445 supported the amendment. He considered that it was an act of great injustice to include Dublin in this bill, for there was nothing in the evidence collected by the corporation commissioners to bear out the charges which had been made against the corporation of that city. He had no objection to the introduction of a bill for the purpose of amending any defects which might be shown to exist in the corporation of Dublin, but, as he said before, none of the allegations of that sort had been made out in the reports, though the commissioners had not been most properly selected, as the names of Mr. Purin and Mr. Hudson, and the nature and bearing of the questions proposed to the witnesses would show. The charges against the corporation, he would again repeat, had not been made out, and there was not a single fact in either report which should induce their Lordships to hang a dog upon. With respect to the case of the sheriff, the noble Marquess (Normanby) had stated, that the conduct of the sheriff in the election of juries proved the exclusiveness of the corporation. He denied that the sheriff could misconduct himself with respect to the election of juries. The noble Earl (Wicklow) had stated, that the corporation would consist of the Radical party. Was it not fair for him to state that that party would be the poorest? He could prove that the houses inhabited by the Radical party were of the poorest description. He thought he had answered pretty nearly the noble Marquess's speech. He begged their Lordships to hear his warning voice—by passing this bill they would be jumping into an abyss which they were not prepared to sound. The
445The Marquess of Westmeath
Laughter.PilotDublin Evening Post,446l. objected to the enormous amount of the corporation funds (150,000Laughter.PilotDublin Evening Post,446l.The Earl of Glengall
450 wished
450The Marquess of Londonderry
449 could state, with the most perfect confidence to their Lordships, that the learned counsel who had addressed them from their Bar on behalf of the corporation of Dublin, had been utterly mistaken as to every particle of that evidence upon which he was called on to comment. He made this statement deliberately, after having referred to the evidence in minute detail. The learned counsel had boldly stated, that no instance of malversation, nor the slightest ground of complaint, could be adduced against his clients. Now, to disprove this allegation, it was only necessary to refer to the testimony of Alder-
449The Marquess of Lansdowne
 said, the measure was calculated to bring into cultivation large tracts of land, which, while undrained, were useless. Still, he should have no objection to refer it to a Select Committee.The Duke of Richmond
l.l.440439 rose to move as an amendment that Dublin be struck out of schedule A, with the view of excepting that city altogether from the operation of the bill. If this schedule passed in its present state, that for which certain persons were so clamorous, viz., equal justice to Ireland, would not be done. Their Lordships, in passing the English Corporation Bill, had thought fit to exclude the city of London; and, upon the same principle, he would now call upon them to exclude Dublin from the operation of this bill. It was the opinion of many persons of authority that the corporation of Dublin ought to be left as it was; and the present hon. and learned Member for Dublin, when some years ago he was examined before a Committee of the other House, gave it as his opinion that no change was required. The corporation of Dublin was essentially different from other corporations with which this bill proposed to deal. Funds to a very large amount had passed from one generation of freemen to another for specific persons; that property was the private property of the corporation, and had been handed down to the present freemen by their predecessors for Protestant purposes, and for Protestant purposes only, and the parties by whom this property was left would rather have allowed it to go into the hands of any party than of that into whose hands it would probably fall by this bill. If the corporation of Dublin were not excluded, the bill would tend to shake the foundation of all property. He had presented to their Lordships a petition signed by no less than 7,000 persons, strongly protesting against the principle of this bill, as it affected Dublin. No charge of mismanagement could be brought against the corporation of Dublin. In one case, in which a large defalcation
l.l.440439Lord Wynford
 said, in reply, that he thought the remarks which had been made by noble Lords opposite in regard to the learned gentleman who was heard at their Lordships' Bar were perfectly unjustified. That learned person held the highest character, and was prepared to prove the truth of every statement he had advanced, if their Lordships would afford him an opportunity of doing so. He should leave his motion in the hands of their Lordships.Lord Wynford
447 would confine himself to simply stating the grounds on which he should give his vote on this question, which was merely that the word "Dublin" be omitted in the bill. The speech of his noble Friend, who had last addressed their Lordships was against the entire bill, and against the corporation system in Ireland, and certainly there was no man more firmly of opinion than he was that it would have been better at first that no corporations whatever should be created in Ireland. That was his opinion originally; but, however, in another place, another opinion prevailed so strongly, that he had yielded his own opinion, and it was now the duty of the noble Lords opposite to take care that the bad consequences which his noble Friend apprehended did not follow from this bill. That to which he would now address himself was the amendment which had been moved by his noble and learned Friend on his left. After their Lordships had had this subject before them during five years, the corporation of Dublin had thought proper this year to present a petition against this bill, and to employ counsel to plead their cause in support of that petition. He must say, that their cause was most ably pleaded, and he should certainly have expected that the noble Lord who moved to call counsel to the bar, or his noble and learned Friend, would have thought it
447The Duke of Wellington
505504"The Governor-general of the Canadas appears to be acting under specific instructions from his Government, and can hardly, therefore, be considered accountable for this or any other act of his administration. These are certainly affairs with which we, on this side of the border, have no right to meddle. The British Ministry must manage these matters as best suits themselves; but there is nothing unneighbourly, we suppose, in prophesying, as we do, that the British Government will have very little further trouble in defending their North American possessions after a union of the two Canadas, as is proposed, for the Lower Canadians will probably take that
504503"I had previously received the similar despatch addressed by you to Sir George Arthur, and had directed its publication in the Gazette for the information of all parties concerned. This publication appears to have been attended with good effects.""I am desirous of directing your attention to the tenure on which public offices in the gift of the Crown appear to be held throughout the British colonies. I cannot learn that during the present or the two last reigns, a single instance has occurred of a change in the subordinate colonial officers, except in cases of death or resignation, incapacity or misconduct. It is time, therefore, that a different course should be followed; and the object of my present communication is to announce to you the rules which will be hereafter observed on this subject in the province of Lower Canada. You will understand, and will cause it to be made generally known, that hereafter the tenure of colonial offices held during her Majesty's pleasure will not be regarded as equivalent to a tenure during good behaviour, but that such officers will be called upon to retire from the public service, as often as any sufficient motives of public policy may suggest the expediency of that measure.""Neither is the union likely to be recommended to either French or English when your chief, if not your only, reason for seeking it is to obtain from their coffers the means of paying your debts."502"To use their own homely expression, it was easy to see which -way the wind blew; and, as the approaching storm was evidently inevitable, many sound and sensible men, who had all their lives been distinguished for their admiration of British institutions, as soon as they were told that Mr. Thomson had declared that 'Sir R. Peel was in favour of the union,'
502"He rose for the purpose of correcting a mistake the hon. Member had fallen into, in stating that the head of the Government had said, if the Legislature did not assent to these resolutions, the troops should be withdrawn; and he heartily concurred with the hon. Gentleman in declaring, that had such a threat been made, it was unworthy of a British statesman. But he was happy to inform lion. Gentlemen, and he did so from authority, that no such threat had either been expressed or intended. His Excellency the Governor-general, in converging with the gentleman alluded to, had only put a case thus, that if the people of England, hearing always of our discontent, and of our applications for assistance, and if they also heard of our rejection of the only remedy that seemed open for our relief, might they not say, why should we any longer trouble ourselves with people who will not hear reason?"501500"Another object desirable to be accomplished for promoting the security and welfare of Canada is to counteract by whatever measure may seem most effectual the injurious tendency of that report presented to her Majesty by Lord Durham during the last Session of Parliament. I did not hesitate to state officially, immediately upon its appearance, that I was ready, in any place and at any time, to show that it was utterly unsafe to be relied upon as the foundation of Parliamentary proceedings.""That they will apply themselves with calmness, and, they trust, with dispassionate zeal, to vindicate the people of Upper Canada, their Government, and Legislature, from charges that imply a want of patriotism and integrity which they did not expect, and which they grieve to find advanced by a nobleman who had been sent to these provinces to heal rather than to foment grievances, and who certainly should have carefully guarded against giving currency to unfounded, mischievous, and illiberal rumours, for the truth of which he admits he is unable to vouch."499"The report was a tissue of unintentional errors.""My opinion is," said Sir P. Maitland that it gives an inaccurate and unfair representation of the opinions entertained in the province of Upper Canada, and that it censures ignorantly and unjustly those who have administered the government of that province."498"GLENELG.''"I beg leave to acquaint you, that having laid this address before the King, his Majesty has been pleased to receive the same very graciously, and to command me to observe that the project of an union between the two provinces has not been contemplated by his Majesty as fit to be recommended for the sanction of Parliament. I have, &c."Sir,—I have the honour to acknowledge your despatch (No. 26) of the 4th ult, in which you transmit to me an address to his Majesty from the Legislative Council and House of Assembly of Upper Canada, deprecating an union between the two provinces Upper and Lower Canada."Downing-street, April 21,1837.497496"It appears, that the House of Lords is called upon by her Majesty's Government to assent to the Canada Bill on the ground that the union of the Canadas is the declared wish of the Legislature and constituted authorities of the two provinces, and, therefore, that it ought not to be resisted. The following facts will, it is humbly submitted, expose the fallacy of the premises, and of the inference deduced from them. 1. The union of the Canadas was recommended by the Queen to both Houses of Parliament, without the Government having previously consulted either Colonel Gore, Sir P. Maitland, Sir J. Colborne, Sir G. Arthur, Sir F. Head, or Lord Gosford, all of whom had practically administered the Government in the Canadas, and all of whom, had they been consulted, would have given their advice against the measure. Lord Seaton and Lord Gosford, if appealed to in the House of Lords, will, I believe, corroborate the above,
497496495"In the vote I am about to give I firmly believe is involved the question of my allegiance, and, as far as depends on my humble advice, the integrity of the empire. Sir, I believe, that the union of the provinces of Upper and Lower Canada will place in imminent peril the connection of this country with the parent state; and, believing this, I cannot, I dare not, without violating the oath of allegiance I have so frequently and so willingly taken, vote in favour of this measure. But the advocates of the union with these people say, that by that measure, all this will be changed, the Canadians of French origin will become reconciled to the dominion of the British, or, at all events, they will be prevented from giving further trouble. I put no faith in any of those opinions, and I believe, that none of them will be realized. On the contrary, I fear, that an opposite effect will be the consequence. I do not believe, that by showing your intention to coerce or overwhelm them by your superior numbers, you will remove the repugnance they now feel to any association with you; neither is the union likely to be recommended to either French or English, when your chief, if not your only reason for seeking it, is to obtain from their coffers the means of paying your debts. If the question were plainly asked me, why I am opposed to the projected union of the provinces, I would answer by simply stating, that we are safe as a dependency of the em
495494"We are of opinion that such a change would expose us to the danger of consequences certainly inconvenient, and possibly most ruinous to the peace and welfare of this country, and destructive of its connexion with the parent state. This province we believe to be quite as large as can be effectually and conveniently ruled by our Executive Government. United with Lower Canada it would form a territory of which the settled parts from east to west would cover an extent of
494"The remedy which I fear will be assiduously recommended by the British population of Lower Canada is, that the two provinces should be united and placed under the government of some individual in whose coolness, decision, and ability, they can rely. My humble but deliberate opinion of this project is, that it would produce the effect of separating both the Canadas from the parent state, on the homely principle that if tainted and fresh meat be attached together both are corrupted. So long as Upper Canada remains by itself, I feel confident that by mere moderate government her ' majority men' will find that prudence and principle unite to keep them on the same side; but if once we were to amalgamate this province with Lower Canada, we should instantly infuse into the House of General Assembly a powerful French party, whose implacable opposition would be a dead, or rather, a living weight, always seeking to attach itself to any question whatever that could attract and decoy the 'majority men.' If the Imperial Parliament will now deal with Lower Canada with firmness and decision, there is nothing whatever to fear; if it vacillates, all is gone."493Sir,—In reply to your letter which I have
493"Brighton, June 6, 1839."492The Times"But whether this union, abstractedly considered, would, with a country which had yet to be settled, be the wisest and the most expedient that could be devised, was scarcely worth discussing, for circumstances were sometimes more powerful than reasons, opinions, theories, and systems."491 said, that in rising to address their Lordships on I his occasion, and in pursuance of the notice which he had given the other day, that this bill be committed this day six months, he felt it his duty to state to their Lordships the grounds on which he took this, what might be considered in some degree extraordinary proceeding. It was perfectly true, that he was present when this bill was read a second time, and lie did not rise in his place to offer any objection to the principle of the measure; but when he came into the House he was not aware that the course which was then pursued would be taken. Since that time he had thought it his duty to proceed in the manner in which he was now proceeding, nut consulting any individual, not connecting himself with any party, but acting entirely on his own responsibility, and from a sense of public duty. He was perfectly aware of his own imperfections —he was aware that he had neither the talents nor the knowledge which a Member of that House presuming to address their Lordships on such a subject ought to possess. But he had about him a strong sense of duty which impelled him to avow his conviction, that if this bill were permitted to pass, it would tend to the separation of our Canadian colonies from the mother country. Although he felt incapable of doing justice to the subject, he also felt that the cause was just and right, and he further felt, that if he failed in showing that this bill was dangerous to the union between this country and her colonies, several of those who had already addressed their Lordships were on his side, although they might not be disposed to carry their opposition to the full extent. He, therefore, was not oppressed by the same difficulty under which he should have laboured, if the whole charge of the proof, and the consequences of failure, had rested upon him alone. He might rest contented upon this occasion, in going at once to a vote upon the speeches which had been delivered by his noble Friend (the Duke of Wellington), and his noble Friend the noble Baron (Ellenborough) who sat at his left on the same bench. He might,
505504"The Governor-general of the Canadas appears to be acting under specific instructions from his Government, and can hardly, therefore, be considered accountable for this or any other act of his administration. These are certainly affairs with which we, on this side of the border, have no right to meddle. The British Ministry must manage these matters as best suits themselves; but there is nothing unneighbourly, we suppose, in prophesying, as we do, that the British Government will have very little further trouble in defending their North American possessions after a union of the two Canadas, as is proposed, for the Lower Canadians will probably take that
504503"I had previously received the similar despatch addressed by you to Sir George Arthur, and had directed its publication in the Gazette for the information of all parties concerned. This publication appears to have been attended with good effects.""I am desirous of directing your attention to the tenure on which public offices in the gift of the Crown appear to be held throughout the British colonies. I cannot learn that during the present or the two last reigns, a single instance has occurred of a change in the subordinate colonial officers, except in cases of death or resignation, incapacity or misconduct. It is time, therefore, that a different course should be followed; and the object of my present communication is to announce to you the rules which will be hereafter observed on this subject in the province of Lower Canada. You will understand, and will cause it to be made generally known, that hereafter the tenure of colonial offices held during her Majesty's pleasure will not be regarded as equivalent to a tenure during good behaviour, but that such officers will be called upon to retire from the public service, as often as any sufficient motives of public policy may suggest the expediency of that measure.""Neither is the union likely to be recommended to either French or English when your chief, if not your only, reason for seeking it is to obtain from their coffers the means of paying your debts."502"To use their own homely expression, it was easy to see which -way the wind blew; and, as the approaching storm was evidently inevitable, many sound and sensible men, who had all their lives been distinguished for their admiration of British institutions, as soon as they were told that Mr. Thomson had declared that 'Sir R. Peel was in favour of the union,'
502"He rose for the purpose of correcting a mistake the hon. Member had fallen into, in stating that the head of the Government had said, if the Legislature did not assent to these resolutions, the troops should be withdrawn; and he heartily concurred with the hon. Gentleman in declaring, that had such a threat been made, it was unworthy of a British statesman. But he was happy to inform lion. Gentlemen, and he did so from authority, that no such threat had either been expressed or intended. His Excellency the Governor-general, in converging with the gentleman alluded to, had only put a case thus, that if the people of England, hearing always of our discontent, and of our applications for assistance, and if they also heard of our rejection of the only remedy that seemed open for our relief, might they not say, why should we any longer trouble ourselves with people who will not hear reason?"501500"Another object desirable to be accomplished for promoting the security and welfare of Canada is to counteract by whatever measure may seem most effectual the injurious tendency of that report presented to her Majesty by Lord Durham during the last Session of Parliament. I did not hesitate to state officially, immediately upon its appearance, that I was ready, in any place and at any time, to show that it was utterly unsafe to be relied upon as the foundation of Parliamentary proceedings.""That they will apply themselves with calmness, and, they trust, with dispassionate zeal, to vindicate the people of Upper Canada, their Government, and Legislature, from charges that imply a want of patriotism and integrity which they did not expect, and which they grieve to find advanced by a nobleman who had been sent to these provinces to heal rather than to foment grievances, and who certainly should have carefully guarded against giving currency to unfounded, mischievous, and illiberal rumours, for the truth of which he admits he is unable to vouch."499"The report was a tissue of unintentional errors.""My opinion is," said Sir P. Maitland that it gives an inaccurate and unfair representation of the opinions entertained in the province of Upper Canada, and that it censures ignorantly and unjustly those who have administered the government of that province."498"GLENELG.''"I beg leave to acquaint you, that having laid this address before the King, his Majesty has been pleased to receive the same very graciously, and to command me to observe that the project of an union between the two provinces has not been contemplated by his Majesty as fit to be recommended for the sanction of Parliament. I have, &c."Sir,—I have the honour to acknowledge your despatch (No. 26) of the 4th ult, in which you transmit to me an address to his Majesty from the Legislative Council and House of Assembly of Upper Canada, deprecating an union between the two provinces Upper and Lower Canada."Downing-street, April 21,1837.497496"It appears, that the House of Lords is called upon by her Majesty's Government to assent to the Canada Bill on the ground that the union of the Canadas is the declared wish of the Legislature and constituted authorities of the two provinces, and, therefore, that it ought not to be resisted. The following facts will, it is humbly submitted, expose the fallacy of the premises, and of the inference deduced from them. 1. The union of the Canadas was recommended by the Queen to both Houses of Parliament, without the Government having previously consulted either Colonel Gore, Sir P. Maitland, Sir J. Colborne, Sir G. Arthur, Sir F. Head, or Lord Gosford, all of whom had practically administered the Government in the Canadas, and all of whom, had they been consulted, would have given their advice against the measure. Lord Seaton and Lord Gosford, if appealed to in the House of Lords, will, I believe, corroborate the above,
497496495"In the vote I am about to give I firmly believe is involved the question of my allegiance, and, as far as depends on my humble advice, the integrity of the empire. Sir, I believe, that the union of the provinces of Upper and Lower Canada will place in imminent peril the connection of this country with the parent state; and, believing this, I cannot, I dare not, without violating the oath of allegiance I have so frequently and so willingly taken, vote in favour of this measure. But the advocates of the union with these people say, that by that measure, all this will be changed, the Canadians of French origin will become reconciled to the dominion of the British, or, at all events, they will be prevented from giving further trouble. I put no faith in any of those opinions, and I believe, that none of them will be realized. On the contrary, I fear, that an opposite effect will be the consequence. I do not believe, that by showing your intention to coerce or overwhelm them by your superior numbers, you will remove the repugnance they now feel to any association with you; neither is the union likely to be recommended to either French or English, when your chief, if not your only reason for seeking it, is to obtain from their coffers the means of paying your debts. If the question were plainly asked me, why I am opposed to the projected union of the provinces, I would answer by simply stating, that we are safe as a dependency of the em
495494"We are of opinion that such a change would expose us to the danger of consequences certainly inconvenient, and possibly most ruinous to the peace and welfare of this country, and destructive of its connexion with the parent state. This province we believe to be quite as large as can be effectually and conveniently ruled by our Executive Government. United with Lower Canada it would form a territory of which the settled parts from east to west would cover an extent of
494"The remedy which I fear will be assiduously recommended by the British population of Lower Canada is, that the two provinces should be united and placed under the government of some individual in whose coolness, decision, and ability, they can rely. My humble but deliberate opinion of this project is, that it would produce the effect of separating both the Canadas from the parent state, on the homely principle that if tainted and fresh meat be attached together both are corrupted. So long as Upper Canada remains by itself, I feel confident that by mere moderate government her ' majority men' will find that prudence and principle unite to keep them on the same side; but if once we were to amalgamate this province with Lower Canada, we should instantly infuse into the House of General Assembly a powerful French party, whose implacable opposition would be a dead, or rather, a living weight, always seeking to attach itself to any question whatever that could attract and decoy the 'majority men.' If the Imperial Parliament will now deal with Lower Canada with firmness and decision, there is nothing whatever to fear; if it vacillates, all is gone."493Sir,—In reply to your letter which I have
493"Brighton, June 6, 1839."492The Times"But whether this union, abstractedly considered, would, with a country which had yet to be settled, be the wisest and the most expedient that could be devised, was scarcely worth discussing, for circumstances were sometimes more powerful than reasons, opinions, theories, and systems."491The Earl of Hardwicke
506 said, that as the noble Earl had referred to the correspondence in which he had expressed his opinion with respect to the proposed union of the two Canadas, he trusted that he might be permitted to offer a few remarks upon that subject at present. It was certainly true that the bill for uniting the two provinces was announced and introduced in this country before any of the authorities in the province —for instance, before either Lord Durham or Sir G. Arthur were consulted as to its policy. It was also true that he had himself felt the greatest apprehension and alarm as to the probable results of that union, and he believed also that every man in both provinces felt the same apprehension and the same alarm. But, as matters now stood, he thought that it would be more injurious both to the two provinces and to this country to defer this bill, and not to proceed with it this Session, than it would be to suffer it to go on. He decidedly thought that their Lordships ought now to go on with this bill, for it appeared that this constitution could not be con-
506Lord Seaton
510"The Governor-general regrets that it is not in his power to communicate to the House of Assembly any despatches on the subject referred to.""Your Majesty's dutiful and loyal subjects, the Commons of Upper Canada, in provincial Parliament assembled, pray of your Majesty to inform their House whether any communication has been received from her Majesty's Secretary for the Colonies, with regard to a responsible Government, as recommended in the report of Earl Durham; and if any such has been received, or anything exist from which the opinion of her Majesty's Government can be collected, that your Majesty will be graciously pleased to cause copies of the same to be transmitted for the information of the House.""I have the honour to forward to you the accompanying copies of addresses received by me on the 13th of December, together with my answer of the 14th of January. It appears to me to be extremely unadvisable to excite the public mind, by making any formal communication on the matter."509508"It will also be of service to me in my endeavours to explain to those who cry out for responsible government the extent to which her Majesty's Government wished to go in administering these offices in accordance with the wishes of the people."507 concurred nearly in every word which had fallen that evening from the noble Earl, particularly when the noble Earl was stating his own opinions. He did not, however, think it worthy of the noble Earl to read from a paper the argument of another Gentleman, when he was able to state his own case so ably. He was not inclined to depart at all from the opinions which he had given upon this subject on a former evening-, and more particularly not from that part of them in which he had entreated their Lordships not to consent to the passing of this measure on account of the opinion entertained upon it by his noble and gallant Friend on the cross benches, and by another gallant Gentleman who was then abroad, and by the House of Commons, and more particularly by some persons in the House of Commons, in whom it was but natural that their Lordships should repose entire confidence. He entertained opinions directly opposite to theirs. It was his opinion that this measure was entirely dangerous. Even her Majesty's Ministers did not venture to state that they felt confidence in it; and from their taciturnity he said distinctly that they did not feel confidence in it. He said further, that her Majesty's Government would not be able to govern these provinces according to the system of this bill. They should, therefore, seek some other system by which they would be able to govern them; for it was their duty, and it was also the duty of Parliament, to secure to the dominion of the Crown of England those valuable provinces called the North American colonies, which, would all be lost, if the system of this bill did not succeed entirely. Now, the papers which had been produced, and the discussion which had taken place last week before their Lordships, all tended to throw light upon the mode in which the opinion of the legislature of Upper Canada had been obtained; and he looked upon that as an
510"The Governor-general regrets that it is not in his power to communicate to the House of Assembly any despatches on the subject referred to.""Your Majesty's dutiful and loyal subjects, the Commons of Upper Canada, in provincial Parliament assembled, pray of your Majesty to inform their House whether any communication has been received from her Majesty's Secretary for the Colonies, with regard to a responsible Government, as recommended in the report of Earl Durham; and if any such has been received, or anything exist from which the opinion of her Majesty's Government can be collected, that your Majesty will be graciously pleased to cause copies of the same to be transmitted for the information of the House.""I have the honour to forward to you the accompanying copies of addresses received by me on the 13th of December, together with my answer of the 14th of January. It appears to me to be extremely unadvisable to excite the public mind, by making any formal communication on the matter."509508"It will also be of service to me in my endeavours to explain to those who cry out for responsible government the extent to which her Majesty's Government wished to go in administering these offices in accordance with the wishes of the people."507The Duke of Wellington
519518517516515514513512511 observed, that
519518517516515514513512511Viscount Melbourne
521520 observed, that during the two debates upon this subject in their Lordships' House, he had not heard, with the exception of two of her Majesty's Ministers, who were the Cramers of this measure, any other noble Lord address their Lordships, who had not expressed his decided opinion that this bill would be attended with imminent danger to, if not with the absolute loss of, our Canadian possessions. When he heard the noble Baron on the cross bench (Lord Seaton), who was so intimately acquainted with the subject, declare that no application had been made to him or to any of the other authorities in Canada previous to the introduction of this bill —when he heard the noble Earl opposite (Gosford) on a former evening say that he was strongly opposed to the bill—and when he heard the noble Viscount (Melbourne) express doubts as to the result of the bill, he thought he had a right to assume that the noble Viscount had very considerably inculpated himself, and that he ought not have introduced a bill of this kind without having first got all the information which he could have procured upon the subject. If this were a good bill, he must congratulate their Lordships and the country on the fortunate circumstance that the bill of last year was not passed. That bill was founded upon the recommendations of Lord Durham, who went to Canada with certain feelings and prejudices, and upon those feelings and prejudices his report was made. Mr. P. Thomson, in his suggestions to Lord J. Russell, condemned the proposed measures of Lord Durham as incorporated into the bill of last year, and stated, that upon consulting the best authorities in the country, he had not found one who did not disapprove of those measures. If the present bill were a good one, and the opinions of Mr. P. Thomson were correct, then was it a fortunate thing for the country that the bill of last year was not passed. The noble Viscount said, that if this bill were to pass, it was important it should pass immediately. Now, by the bill of last year, the union of the Canadas was not to come into operation till 1842. Again,
521520The Earl of Wicklow
 wished to state, in consequence of what had fallen from the noble Earl who had just sat down, that the reasons assigned by those noble Lords who opposed this bill for opposing it, were not those by which he was induced to oppose it. Many of those reasons appeared to him to be rather in favour than against the present bill; but his reason for opposing it was, that the principle of it, from beginning to end, was founded upon misrepresentation; that it was, on that account, likely to be attended with gross injustice, and would, he feared, prove an indelible blot on the Legislature of this country.The Earl of Gosford
522 said, that the noble Earl opposite, in staling that, with the exception of two Ministers of the Crown, every noble Lord who had spoken on the subject had opposed this bill, seemed to have forgotten that there was a great preponderance of opinion in its favour, both in that and the other House of Parliament, in the country, and also in the two Provinces which it more immediately affected. The noble Lord admitted he had no arguments to advance against it, and to justify his opposition to it, appealed to the opinion which had been expressed by the noble Lord on the cross bench. Now, surely, the noble Earl could not have listened to the speech of that noble Lord, or he would have observed that if ever a decided opinion had been expressed by any one acquainted with the condition of those Provinces as to the course which ought to be taken respecting them, that opinion had come from the noble Lord. He begged that their Lordships would consider the weight of authority in favour of this measure. There was, in the first place, the Legislative Council of the Lower Province, many of whom had been appointed by the noble
522The Marquess of Normanby
 felt himself placed in a painful situation in not being able to comply with the request of his noble Friend (the Duke of Wellington). He felt himself bound to pursue the course which in his conscience he felt was the right one, and to follow the example which the noble Duke himself had set in adhering to that line of conduct which duty prompted, in spite of any opposition which might be offered.The Earl of Hardwicke
562"The parts of the said province which now constitute the provinces of Upper and Lower Canada respectively, shall be represented by an equal number of representatives;" adverted to clause 12, which enacts that
562"The parts of the said province which now constitute the provinces of Upper and Lower Canada respectively, shall be represented by an equal number of representatives;"Lord Ellenborough
563"I am adverse to every plan that has been proposed for giving an equal number of members to the two provinces in order to attain the temporary end of out-numbering the French, because I think the same object will be obtained without any violation of the principles of representation, and without any such appearance of injustice in the scheme as would set public opinion, both in England and America, strongly against it; and because, when emigration shall have increased the
563 said, that his views upon this point were borne out by the opinion of the Earl of Durham, who, in his report, stated—
563"I am adverse to every plan that has been proposed for giving an equal number of members to the two provinces in order to attain the temporary end of out-numbering the French, because I think the same object will be obtained without any violation of the principles of representation, and without any such appearance of injustice in the scheme as would set public opinion, both in England and America, strongly against it; and because, when emigration shall have increased the
563Lord Ellenborough
566565564 said, he trusted that their Lordships would agree to the proposition which he was now about to make, which he considered to be just in itself, and perfectly reasonable. It offered, in his opinion the only prospect by which this measure was likely to be rendered advantageous to this country, and conducive to the prosperity and tranquillity of Canada. The proposition which he was about to make had reference to an alteration in the proposed system of representation. Their Lordships had already determined that the members representing the upper and lower province should be equal for each province. Now, his object was to make such an arrangement as that the number of representatives for Lower Canada should be so distributed as to render it most satisfactory to the great majority of the population. The bill in this respect proceeded on a principle of which he greatly disapproved. Thus it proposed to give to Sherbrooke a member, while it excluded the town of William Henry, which was of more importance. Why was this? He could see no other reason for it except that the population of the former was in a great degree English, which was not the case with the latter. With the same feeling the bill proposed to give to a constituency of 2,300 persons the right of nominating a member, while it consolidated eight counties into four, and gave to each, the population amounting to 30,000 persons, the right of electing a single Member. This was done for the purpose of, as it was called, upholding the British interest. It was just as if, in case an alteration was proposed in the Reform Bill of this country, it was desired that the small county of Rutland should continue to send two Members to Parliament, because it happened at the time to return two Whigs, while the two divisions of Devonshire, were required to be consolidated, and to return only two Members, because they had previously sent two Conservatives to Parliament. The spirit in which this bill was conceived was precisely the spirit that dictated the penal
566565564Lord Ellenborough
 was quite sure, that if the noble Viscount had read, as he had taken the trouble to do, the report of the Canadian commissioners, he would not be satisfied that the arrangement made by the act of 1829 was perfectly fair. Now, so far was it from being the case that these small counties were taken to increase the French majority, that they were given to increase the English party, and the average number of English returning a member was 3,500, while the average number of French returning a member was 6,500. When he said that this bill was conceived in the spirit of the penal laws against the Catholics of Ireland, he did not mean that the framers of this bill would interfere with the Roman Catholic population of Canada. On the contrary, he believed that their religion, their institutions, and their establishments would be preserved inviolable.Lord Ellenborough
571 wished to call their Lordships' attention to the 26th clause, which required a larger concurrence on the part of the representatives than would be found possible in practice. It required the concurrence of two-thirds of the Members for the time being, not of those only who were actually present. There was another point which he was astonished that the acuteness of noble Lords had not before detected. It was, that these people, when they met, could not possibly understand each other. He was assured that, even in the Lower Province, the members sate together night after night, and a member of French extraction could not exchange a word with his neighbour, who was of English extrac-
571The Bishop of Exeter
 thanked the noble Baron for the illustration derived from Belgium and Holland, which had flown off with a mutual repulsion that led to a degree of commotion which he hoped never to witness in Canada. This bill had been described as unjust and tyrannous, and to this description he wished to add the word "absurd."The Bishop of Exeter
574 said, that there was nothing whatever contained in the papers moved for that rendered their production inconsistent with the public service? If the noble Earl had made his motion the day after the opening of Parliament, the papers would have been produced without the slightest objection. They were now ready to be produced, but considering, as he had reason to believe, that all angry feelings were subsiding in the town, he could not but think it unfortunate that the noble Earl had postponed
574The Marquess of Normanby
 referred to the Legislatures of Belgium and Holland, when those countries were united—where German, French, High Dutch, and Low Dutch, were all spoken by the members; also to the state of Louisiana, and other states, where a similar inconvenience to that pointed out by the right rev. Prelate had been apprehended; yet the members had been found to understand each other much better than had been anticipated.Lord Ashburton
570 said, that, perhaps, the noble Baron opposite was not aware that the whole of these territorial distributions, and the whole of the act, had been published in the Canadian newspapers, and opportunity had been given for remonstrances from the districts affected, yet no objection had been made to the arrangement. There had been petitions against the whole bill, but not one had been presented to their Lordships against this particular grievance of territorial distribution. It was fair, then, to presume, that the arrangement had not given dissatisfaction to the inhabitants of the colony. The noble Baron had also omitted to notice, that in this bill there was a specific clause, enabling the Legislature of Canada to alter these proportions, if they thought fit. In the26th clause of the bill, their Lordships would find that there was power given to the Legislature of Canada to alter the apportionment of representatives to be chosen by the counties, ridings, cities, and towns respectively, and to make a new and different apportionment of the number of representatives to be chosen in and for those parts of the province of Canada, which now constituted the provinces of Upper and Lower Canada, and in and for the several districts, counties, ridings, and towns in the same. Now, this clause in the bill contained a provision to enable the Legislature of Canada to alter the apportionment of the representation; and, as they were on the spot, they had better means of doing justice in the distribution than the noble Baron or any other Member of their Lordships' House, and they had better means of altering the distribution if it was unequal in its character, and un-
570The Marquess of Lansdowne
 remarked, that no inconvenience was felt in one of the oldest constitutions in Europe—the Swiss Diet—where French was exclusively spoken by one portion, and German by the other.The Marquess of Lansdowne
 begged to remark, that the noble Viscount was in error in stating, that Papineau was the chief framer of the bill of 1829. The person chiefly occupied in framing that measure was a very intelligent Scotchman, named Nelson. With respect to Montmorency and Sherbrooke, which under the new arrangement it was proposed should return only one member, he had to observe that the population of Montmorency was 10,000, instead of 7,000 or 8,000, as stated by the noble Viscount. He thought that an additional member should be given to this district.The Earl of Gosford
 recollected perfectly well, that when the act of 1829 passed, a very considerable portion of the English population of Lower Canada felt that that act would be by no means beneficial to them. It would be a very unfortunate circumstance if Sherbrooke were shut out of the bill. It was one of the most thriving towns in the country, and was situated in a rather important point on the southeastern frontier, near to the United States. With respect to the clauses appointing district councils, he thought that it was a great improvement to leave them out of the bill. He did not think it desirable, in a measure of this kind, to introduce details, for the due execution of which we must refer to the local legislature.The Earl of Ripon
573572 rose to move for the production of Mr. Dundas's report, and the evidence taken on the investigation held at Birmingham respecting the riots of the 15th of July, 1839, and also for the letter of Mr. Alston to Lord John Russell, dated the 11th of July, 1839, with the answer returned thereto. He was unwilling to revert to any of the circumstances connected with the riots at Birmingham, but be was sure, that in the observations he had to make to their Lordships' he should avoid the use of any expressions which Could possibly offend any one. The case was simply this—certain persons in Birmingham had complained of the conduct of the magistrates of Birmingham, during
573572The Earl of Warwick
 in reply said, that nothing but Providence saved the town from destruction, as the wind, which previous to the firing of the houses had been rather high, sunk into a dead calm. With respect to the riot, though the magistrates had previous information, no preparations were made to resist the rioters.The Earl of Warwick
 said, it was evident that the magistrates were aware of the intended gathering, as a meeting had been held for the purpose of discussing whether or not it would be prudent to disperse it. That there was neglect was evident from the fact of the military being in readiness to repress the outrage if called upon. A bookseller of the town, too, had a conversation with the mayor, in which he gave information of a proposed meeting of the Chartists on the following night for the purpose of possessing themselves of the Bull-ring at St. Thomas's church, and that they were advised by their leaders to come prepared for the police. To this the mayor answered, "Let them come, we shall be prepared for them." Yet, notwithstanding this, no preparation had been made, though there was a police force in the town sufficient to repress the riots. When the police were called upon to act, Mr. May said that they could not act without the direction of a magistrate, but there was no magistrate present. When these facts were before their Lordships, how could they possibly acquit the magistrates of the gross neglect of which the memorialists complained? In his opinion a case of gross dereliction of duty had been made out, and the noble Marquess opposite was rather too hasty in his acquittal.Lord Lyndhurst
568567 entirely agreed
568567Viscount Melbourne
 was understood to say, that if the population of Upper Canada hereafter increased in the manner to which the noble Lord alluded, it would be in the power of Parliament to revise the measure.Viscount Melbourne
 said, that though an opinion on the question could not well be formed without having the whole of the papers, still it appeared that the magistrates had been furnished with more information than the noble Marquess seemed inclined to admit. It was evident that notice of the intended riot had been furnished to them, and yet they had not taken care to have two magistrates in attendance, and the consequence was that the police could not act in the absence of the requisite number of magistrates.The Duke of Wellington
591 said, he saw by the papers of this day a proclamation, purporting to have been issued by the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, on the subject of what was called "the Teetotalers' pledge."
591The Marquess of Westmeath
 had received no official information on the subject. He had, however, seen the proclamation, and he had no reason to doubt its authenticity. He believed, that the pledge to which the noble Marquess alluded had produced very great and beneficial effects. He would not dispute with the noble Marquess about the "pledge" being "slipslop;" but he would say, that from all the information which he had received on the subject, he was convinced that a most beneficial change had been effected amongst the people by what the noble Marquess had been pleased to denominate a "Popish device."The Marquess of Normanby
596 could not help expressing his unfeigned sorrow at this issue of his noble Friend's disinterested exertions. Although no doubt his noble Friend was the best judge of the propriety of withdrawing his bill, he could not help expressing his conviction that this good, at least, would have resulted from discussions upon the bill in the other House of Parliament—namely, that the vehement and imprudent leaders of the dominant party in the Assembly would have plainly seen that few, indeed, were the individuals who opposed the bill upon the ground which they themselves had taken. He could not help thinking that the Ministers of the Crown had taken upon themselves a very serious responsibility in opposing this measure. He did not say, that Ministers ought to have given the measure a full and plenary approbation, but they need not have offered it any opposition, and might have left the responsibility with his noble Friend, in which case, in his firm opinion, many impending evils
596The Earl of Haddington
 entirely concurred with all that had fallen from a noble Earl who had spoken last as to the conduct of the noble Earl who had introduced this bill.The Earl of Camperdown
 in reference to a conversation which had taken place on a previous evening between him and the Marquess of Lansdowne, observed that when the noble Marquess referred to the evidence of Alderman Beresford as to the mismanagement of the property of Dublin; he forgot to quote the next words of the alderman's testimony, namely, that "he did not recollect any thing of this kind to have occurred for the last sixty years." The noble Marquess had also urged as a charge against them their granting leases to corporators. True, Alderman Beresford said this, but when? Why, these leases were made out about sixty-six years ago. All this was stated distinctly in the report of the commissioners: "But we do not find any instance of this nature occurring within the last sixty years." Was he not borne out, then, in saying that the corporation of Dublin had no charges of this kind brought against them which they were in any way bound to answer? Was it quite fair in the noble Marquess, imposed on by this garbled statement, to get up in his place, and make so strong and emphatic a charge of disingenuous, ness, not only against the individual who now addressed them, but also against the learned counsel.The Bishop of Exeter,
 said, the noble Marquess, the Secretary for the Home Department, had been misinformed as to one of the statements which he had made on a former evening. The noble Marquess had stated that Alderman Montgomery had had an opportunity afforded him of revising the evidence he had given. Such, however, was not the case, for the commission closed its labours suddenly, and several years were allowed to elapse before the shorthand writers' notes were written out. Alderman Montgomery had never had an opportunity of revising his evidence.The Earl of Glengall
 would repeat that the learned counsel had stated at the bar that Alderman Montgomery had said, he had attended twenty grand juries, on each of which there were three Roman Catholics, and that statement he would again say, was not borne out by the evidence taken before the commissioners.The Marquess of Normanby
 differed in opinion from the noble Marquess (Westmeath). He thought that the temperance societies were calculated to effect much good, and the individual who had devoted himself to the futherance of the plan deserved the greatest praise for what he was doing. The temperance societies, he believed, were set on foot with the best motives, but there were parties who would not scruple to make them subservient to other purposes, and use them as instruments to create alarm.The Earl of Wicklow
593 did not wish to withdraw any expression he had used, because he had expressed the sentiments of his mind. He had formerly stated, that he loved sobriety as much as any man, and that he sincerely wished the people to abstain from drunkenness. He did not regret that the people should be sober; but he did not approve of the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, by an act of his government, bringing prominently forward this "Temperance pledge" as the
593The Marquess of Westmeath
 concurred in the observations of the noble Viscount: if the restriction, with respect to deck-loading, were extended to timber ships bound to the West-India colonies, it would immediately put an end to the trade in lumber.Lord Ashburton
597 had certainly referred their Lordships to the
597The Marquess of Lansdowne
590"In 1838, eighteen ships are reported as wrecked on the shore, and forty-eight at sea; of twenty-seven of which there had been no accounts of the crews; of the remaining twenty-one the sufferings of the crews of two had been extreme; in one, the Earl Moira, four bodies only having been found under the maintop, all dead, with part of one of their comrades hung up like butcher's meat in a stall; and in the other, the Anna Maria, five bodies were found dead, with part of the leg of a woman by the side of one of them, who had evidently been feeding upon it; and one more, the Frederick, of St. John's, fallen in with by the Hope, with her crew lashed to the maintop, without the power of assisting them." rose for the purpose of moving the omission of certain words in order that its operation might be more extensive. The object of the bill was to prevent the great loss of vessels employed in the transportation of timber from North America. In the last session a committee of the House of Commons had been appointed to inquire into the subject, and from the evidence adduced before that committee it appeared that the loss of vessels employed in this trade had for a series of years been lamentably great. The committee, in their report, state—
590"In 1838, eighteen ships are reported as wrecked on the shore, and forty-eight at sea; of twenty-seven of which there had been no accounts of the crews; of the remaining twenty-one the sufferings of the crews of two had been extreme; in one, the Earl Moira, four bodies only having been found under the maintop, all dead, with part of one of their comrades hung up like butcher's meat in a stall; and in the other, the Anna Maria, five bodies were found dead, with part of the leg of a woman by the side of one of them, who had evidently been feeding upon it; and one more, the Frederick, of St. John's, fallen in with by the Hope, with her crew lashed to the maintop, without the power of assisting them."Lord Colchester
 believed, that the noble Lord had not exaggerated the extent of the losses sustained in this particular trade; and he also was of opinion that those losses were occasioned by piling up large quantities of timber on the decks of these vessels. He was anxious to adopt any measure that appeared likely to check such an evil; but many difficulties presented themselves against adopting the proposition of the noble Lord. Last year, when the subject was under consideration, the strongest possible representations were made to the Government from Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, all of them setting forth, that if the bill was attempted to be applied to the colonial passages of timber ships, it would, in fact, put an end to that part of the trade between North America and the West Indies, which was one of the most important portions of their traffic. He could not, therefore, agree to the amendment.Viscount Duncannon
595"It is the opinion of very many, and it is decidedly my own, that many of the clergy and elders who opposed the bill in the present Assembly would be glad of an opportunity of retracing their steps if they could do so.""If this be so, I can only assure your Lordships that you will disappoint nine-tenths of the people in this district, and, I believe, in the whole of Scotland."594 would take the opportunity of answering a question which was addressed to him by a noble Duke on the cross bench the other day, and which he could no longer defer answering, although he perceived the noble Duke was not then present. The question referred to the future progress of the Scotch Churches Benefices Bill, and, upon the best consideration which he could give to the subject, he had come to the conclusion, although very reluctantly, that it would not be expedient for him to press the third reading of the bill during the present session. Their Lordships were aware that this measure was opposed by the majority of the General Assembly on the ground of its unwarrantable interference with the spiritual independence and proper jurisdiction of the Church, and indeed he (the Earl of Aberdeen) had been described in consequence of having brought this bill into Parliament as the enemy and persecutor of the Church. Their Lordships were also aware that out of the Church of Scotland the only reason assigned for offering any opposition to the measure was, that it conceded too large powers to the Church, and recognized an extent of jurisdiction that was quite unjustifiable. Now, he had endeavoured to show, and he thought had shown, that an opinion of this kind was without foundation, but he would admit, that if he had erred at all, it was undoubtedly on the side of a too large and liberal concession to the Church of Scotland. The pretensions of the General Assembly were so manifestly unreasonable and preposterous, that if the bill had passed into a law he might safely have hoped for the acquiescence of a large body of the clergy and a majority of the laity of the General Assembly, from whom he had received several communications stating their approbation of the measure. Unfortunately, however, her Majesty's Government had thought proper to oppose the progress of this bill. Now, the measure was intended to promote peace, and he was unwilling to do anything which could deprive it of that character, more especially as he was sure that if any measure could be carried into effect which should tend to the pre-
595"It is the opinion of very many, and it is decidedly my own, that many of the clergy and elders who opposed the bill in the present Assembly would be glad of an opportunity of retracing their steps if they could do so.""If this be so, I can only assure your Lordships that you will disappoint nine-tenths of the people in this district, and, I believe, in the whole of Scotland."594The Earl of Aberdeen
.—No, they are not. There were a number of persons affected by this measure who were elected to their offices from year to year, but who were entitled to expect that they would be continued in their offices during life, and who ought, therefore, to receive compensation for the loss of those offices as in the English bill. There were, in particular, two officers who would be effected by this bill, and to whom no compensation would be given as the measure at present stood. Those two persons had the power to appoint each a deputy, and those deputies held their offices for no longer period than the chiefs. In the other House a clause had been introduced by some one, he did not know for what reason, which gave compensation to the deputies, but without giving anything to those who appointed them. Such a course was extremely unjust, and he could not consent to this bill unless compensation was made to those, parties to whom he had alluded.Lord Lyndhurst
598 proposed a number of verbal amendments on the different clauses of the bill, which were agreed to, and said he would reserve those which might give rise to discussion till the third reading. The noble and learned Lord then said, he wished particularly to call the attention of the noble Viscount at the head of the Government to a defect in this measure. He must tell the noble Viscount that he would never give his assent to a bill which
598Lord Lyndhurst
 said, that the committee had examined the whole of this subject with the greatest minuteness, and had been perfectly unanimous upon every point they suggested.Lord Lyndhurst
pessimi exempli confessed that he had heard with great regret the observations of the noble Marquess. He was sorry that it should go forth that one of the Members of their Lordships' House had expressed such an opinion of what had been beneficially going on for some time in Ireland. He did not wish to commit himself by speaking decidedly; but his individual opinion was, so far as he had an opportunity of judging that a great and substantial good had been done. He believed that it had been effected by perfectly legitimate means and legitimate exertions, and that it was as little connected with fanaticism, with party, or with appeals to religious feelings of a peculiar character, as could be imagined. He had himself heard Father Mathew address the people; and his manner was such as any noble Lord who heard him might adopt in addressing a public body in support of such an object. It was, he conceived, pessimi exempliThe Earl of Devon
 wished to ask the noble Lord whether the persons alluded to were not included under the provisions of the bills.Viscount Melbourne
s.d. suggested the expediency of altering the taxation clause of this bill in another place, so as to reduce the power of taxation in cases where lighting, paving, cleansing, &c were carried on under private acts, to 3s.d.The Duke of Wellington
592 said, the proclamation contained matter more worthy of observation than that to which the noble Marquess had referred. He alluded to the new law which it laid down. The old doctrine was, that the assembling of large bodies of people to create terror was illegal, and it was forbidden. Here, however, it appeared that large bodies of people, sufficient to create terror, had assembled—as, in the town of Clonmel, where a large procession sufficient to create terror had assembled: but those assemblages appeared not to have been
592The Duke of Wellington
599 said, that the committee which had sat upon this bill had suggested an alteration which he was
599The Lord Chancellor
 expressed a hope that, at no distant time, some large and comprehensive measure would be introduced for expediting and simplifying equity business, not by taking away the judicial functions of that House, but by rendering them more efficient. He was of opinion that some improvement might be made in the judicial Committee of the privy council, which, however, had operated beneficially since the plan was devised in 1833. He thought, also, that it would be beneficial if a power were vested in the Court of Chancery, and the equity courts connected with it, to frame rules for the especial regulation of those courts, as to the time of meeting, the mode of pleading generally, and the mode of taking evidence. Such a power, properly exercised, would be of great benefit to the profession, and to the respective suitors also.Lord Brougham
 was of opinion, that the bill as it now stood, was a much better bill than it was before it was submitted to the Select Committee, and he, for one, would not object to the bill, because it did not contain all those provisions which theoretical reasoners might wish.Lord Ellenborough
 said, that his opinion upon this measure remained unaltered, and that all the consideration he had given to the subject, and all the discussions that had taken place upon it, had considerably strengthened and confirmed that opinion. He should, in a protest, place a permanent record of his disapproval of the measure upon the journals of their Lordships' House. He feared it was more calculated to lead to a separation between the mother country and the colonies than to bind them closer together. In the paper last printed for the consideration of their Lordships, and which ought to have been printed at the very commencement of these proceedings, it was stated that the opinion of her Majesty's Ministers had not been so decidedly expressed as to have had any material effect in setting the question of responsible government at rest. The despatch of the 14th of October, 1839, sent out by Lord J. Russell, which would have set that question at rest, had never been published; Mr. P. Thomson did not even acknowledge the receipt of it, although he acknowledged the receipt of a letter of the date of two days afterwards.Lord Ellenborough
662 need hardly state to their Lordships that he retained the opinions which he had already expressed upon the subject, and that his objections to the measure had not been removed. These objections chiefly referred to the want of consent on the part of the colonies, and he thought that this bill must lead to a separation between the colonies and the mother country. With the opinions which their Lordships knew he entertained, he should not lament this if he did not fear that when this event did take place it was most likely to be in ill blood. He could not help saying that, having attended to the different arguments and evidence relating
662Lord Brougham
 said, the noble Viscount had now stated that the positive opinion of the Government had been conveyed to Canada by the despatch of the 14th of October, 1839. Mr. Thomson, however, although he was aware of the opinions of the Government, placed in the situation of Solicitor-general Mr. Baldwin, who was the advocate of responsible government.Lord Ellenborouyh
 said, that if this bill was to pass, their Lordships must all wish that its provisions should be carried into effect, and that the objects of it should be attained. He must say, however, that if the Government were to employ persons in high and responsible situations, who on great fundamental principles of government entertained opinions diametrically opposite to those which the Government had in the most public and solemn manner avowed, it was absolutely impossible that this measure should succeed. Did the Government mean, if Mr. Baldwin avowed that he held the opinions which had been attributed to him, to remove that gentleman, or call upon him to resign? If they did not, he would say that they betrayed their trust, and were the real authors of the separation of the colonies from this country.The Earl of Ripon
 had been most distinctly given to understand, that Mr. Baldwin had declared, previously to his accepting office, that he adopted the idea conveyed by the words "responsible government" precisely in the sense used by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, and that he did not wish for responsible government in the sense employed by the noble Duke. As to the conduct of his right hon. Friend, the Governor-general, in not putting forward the despatch of the 14th of October, and whether he had acted wisely, and for the service of the country, much difference of opinion might exist on that point. It had always been a question which led to much difference of opinion between his noble and learned Friend and himself, when an erroneous impression had taken possession of the popular mind, as to the best course which could be pursued. His noble and learned Friend, with the high and commanding energy which distinguished his character, was always for stemming and facing popular opinion; he, on the other hand, leaning to the course of policy for which his talents fitted him, was rather inclined to let it slip by. In fact, he did not know any question more difficult to decide than this—whether it was the wiser plan to meet popular error in the front, or to let it flow on and spend its force. It appeared to him, that the Governor-general must be in a better position to judge of the propriety of the course which he had to take than their Lordships could be, and the result had been favourable, for, as he understood from Sir G. Arthur, the feeling in favour of responsible government had, in a great measure, passed away.Viscount Melbourne
661660 regretted that the noble Duke and the noble Baron had taken their present course. The noble Duke had repeated his animadversions on his noble Friend for not publishing the despatch of the 16th of October, 1839, earlier than March last. His noble Friend had acted to the best of his judgment, and as he believed from sound policy, thinking that to be the safer course for the service and benefit of the state. He had often felt it extremely difficult to know what to do in similar cases. When an erroneous opinion took possession of the public mind, it was by no means an easy
661660Viscount Melbourne
"V. R.""I shall be prepared to concur with you in those measures which may appear best calculated to maintain unimpaired the power and dignity of the Crown, and thereby to strengthen the securities which protect the rights and liberties of My people.657"The uncertainty of human life, and a deep sense of My duty to My people, render
657"VICTORIA R. announced a message from her Majesty, which was read by the Lord Chancellor as follows: —
"V. R.""I shall be prepared to concur with you in those measures which may appear best calculated to maintain unimpaired the power and dignity of the Crown, and thereby to strengthen the securities which protect the rights and liberties of My people.657"The uncertainty of human life, and a deep sense of My duty to My people, render
657"VICTORIA R.Viscount Melbourne
 repeated, that the person whom he had mentioned had declared himself in favour of responsible government in his electioneering speech. What he insisted upon was, that a full declaration, an authoritative declaration, should have been made, that the question of "independent responsible government" was totally inadmissible.The Duke of Wellington
659658 merely rose to State to their Lordships that he still enter-
659658The Duke of Wellington
 approved of the suggestions of his noble and learned Friend, which were well worthy of consideration.The Lord Chancellor
717
717Lord Stanley
llllll had some reason to complain that the noble Lord had not made his statement when the bill stood for a second reading. It was said, that the object of this bill was to permit one hundred persons to violate a trust reposed in them by repeated Acts of Parliament. Now the fact, stripped of all colouring, was, that those parties thought it right to provide the means of public worship for a very large number of people employed on the Weaver Navigation. For that purpose, it was proposed to take a very small, a very insignificant portion of funds, amounting to 15,000llllllThe Bishop of London
(of Alderley) said, the petitioners against this bill were far more numerous than the right rev. Prelate supposed. In the House of Commons, three petitions had been presented, signed by 10,000 persons.Lord Stanley
 would take that opportunity, of stating the course he intended to pursue with regard to the Copyholds Enfranchisement Bill which had been referred to a select committee. It had sat for some time, and a period of the Session had now arrived which made him feel that he could hardly hope to get the bill passed this Session. If he were to proceed with the bill, it could not be sent down to the other House of Parliament before the end of this month, and that was a sufficient reason for his withdrawing it. He would add, that this circumstance presented the only reason for withdrawing it, because, with the exception of the compulsory clauses, he was confident that he should have obtained the assent of the select committee.Lord Brougham
 observed, that the best way for his noble Friend was to try and bring in his bill. He could assure him of his own support to the measure.Lord Brougham
 would also give his support to the bill.Lord Holland
 said, that in his opinion, his noble Friend was perfectly right in withdrawing the measure, upon a pledge that he would bring it forward early in the next Session of Parliament.Lord Lyndhurst
719 begged to present a petition from Mr. David Salomons, a gentleman of the Jewish persuasion, who stated, that he had filled many offices of trust and dignity, and had served the office of sheriff of London and Middlesex. The petitioner stated that he was elected in 1835 an alderman of the city of London,
719Lord Lyndhurst
718 moved the Order of the Day for the consideration of the Message from the Throne, and the message having been read, the noble Viscount said, "My Lords, in reference to the important subject which was brought under your consideration by the Queen's most gracious message, which I had the honour to bring down to your Lordships' House yesterday,
718Viscount Melbourne
753 said, that in point of strict justice to Mr. Cranstoun, he could not allow this opportunity to pass without making one or two observations. His genius, talent, and ability were such that to see his equal hereafter on the bench
753Lord Brougham
 said, he rose simply as a gentleman connected with that part of the United Kingdom in one of the courts of which Mr. Cranstoun had presided, to express the extreme satisfaction he felt at what had been said by the noble Lords who had preceded him. What had fallen from his noble and learned Friend near him, and from the noble Marquess opposite, would, he was convinced, be most gratifying to Mr. Cranstoun. That individual, independent of his various acquirements, and of his unparalleled reputation as a lawyer, was, he would say, one of the most accomplished gentlemen of his time.The Earl of Haddington
 said, the proper time for entering into a discussion on the subject of education would be when the minutes were laid on the table; but still he felt it incumbent on him to express the great satisfaction which he experienced at the adjustment of the differences which had existed between the friends of church education and the committee of the Privy Council. The chief difficulty related to the appointment of inspectors, and that difficulty, he was happy to say, had been overcome. Should the arrangements which had been made be fully and fairly carried into effect, which he believed would be the case, he had no doubt, judging from the nature of the discussions and negotiations which had taken place in reference to them, that they would be found to operate very beneficially.The Archbishop of Canterbury
 had no other object in rising than to express his deep gratification that a bill should have come up from the other House of Parliament, and would shortly receive their Lordships' attention, having for its object to remedy existing evils of a very serious nature in these most important institutions. A large proportion of these schools had become extremely limited in the range of their utility, and, from the general scope of this bill, and the mode in which its provisions were shaped, it was extremely likely to meet with a general concurrence.The Bishop of Salisbury
752 was not only perfectly willing to answer the question of the noble and learned Lord, but was extremely obliged to the noble and learned Lord for the opportunity which it afforded him of stating his concurrence in the character which be had so justly given of this eminent individual. For no person, neither the noble and learned Lord nor any other individual, could feel more deeply than he did, if there was the possibility of any shadow of a doubt, or of a particle of misunderstanding existing in the mind of the noble and learned Lord, or in the mind of that eminent person, on the subject to which the question referred, that the matter should be set perfectly right and that doubt completely dissipated, and that he was enabled to do in the most distinct and decided terms. Because, though he was not himself officially consulted, or officially a party to the transaction of which the noble and learned Lord spoke, still, from the sincere feeling of respect which he bore to Mr. Cranstoun, whom he had known all his life, and he was proud to have known him from the earliest period, he endeavoured to make himself fully acquainted with the nature of the transaction and all its circumstances. He would not enter into those circumstances, because the noble and learned Lord had said that he did not rise to make any complaint on the subject. But the result of that inquiry he could truly declare was, that, in the whole proceeding, not the least slur was intended to be cast
752The Marquess of Lansdowne
754 said he was anxious, before the order of the day was read, to move for the minutes of the proceedings of the Education Committee of the Privy Council. The noble Marquess expressed his confident hope that the labours of the committee would be productive of very
754The Marquess of Lansdowne
751750
751750Lord Lyndhurst
 said, it was his misfortune not to be able to speak of Mr. Cranstoun from personal acquaintance or from any great familiarity with his legal acquirements; but, from the character which he had received from his noble and learned Friends, and from what he himself knew, he believed that he was highly honoured and respected by the whole profession to which he belonged, from the highest to the lowest department. He trusted that at some future period it would be admitted that a debt of justice was due to this gentleman, and that debt he hoped would be paid to him.Lord Denman
759 was of opinion, that it would be advisable to remove the present defects of the Court of Chancery by im-
759Lord Denman
 remarked, that the grievance was felt in all parts of the country, and that nothing but an Act of Parliament could prevent any attempt at improvement from being foiled by the continued existence of the old regulations.The Lord Chancellor
758757756755: My Lords, I trust your Lordships will be of opinion that the importance of the subject to which I am about to call your Lordships' attention justifies me in departing from that which is the custom of your Lordships House, namely, not to make a statement on any bill until it comes to the second reading. But, my Lords, I am anxious that your Lordships should be put in possession of the general provisions of this bill before it is placed in your Lordships' hands. Your Lordships will recollect that immediately before the accession of her Majesty to the Throne, it was thought necessary by Parliament to make a provision for the only contingency which at that time appeared to be within the limit of probability to occur—of the Crown descending to an illustrious individual who, from his important position as the Sovereign of another country, might not be in these dominions at the time of his accession to the sovereignty. For that contingency your Lordships and the other House of Parliament thought it proper to make a provision for the government of the country, and for securing the succession to that illustrious person until he should be able to arrive in this country to assume his regal position, and fulfil the duties and prerogatives which so devolved upon him,
758757756755The Lord Chancellor
 observed, that the case supposed by the noble and learned Lord, of a proposition to alter the law of England, so as to make it the same as that of Scotland at present with regard to the subject of this bill, might appear absurd to the noble and learned Lord; but he thought it was a case which could scarcely apply to the question before the House, inasmuch as the law of England had been long established, had worked well, and it would be very difficult to convince the country that any advantage was to be gained by the change. It would be equally difficult to prove to the people of Scotland, that they would be benefitted by an alteration of the law in this respect. The administration of justice in that country had proceeded satisfactorily; and it might not be hard to show that, in some cases, the ends of justice might be thwarted, unless the principle of exclusion, proposed to be done away with by this bill, were allowed to operate. But, without going into that debateable point, it would be sufficient for him to state to their Lordships, that the whole Faculty of Advocates, and he believed the majority of the Scotch judges, were against the change. Therefore let their Lordships pause before they agreed to the second reading of this bill: let the whole subject be thoroughly investigated, and let the bill be postponed for another session. He called on their Lordships to give due weight to the opinions held by the whole bar of Scotland on this subject, especially as several of the judges had given their opinions against part of the change which was now proposed. He begged, therefore, to move that the bill be read a second time that day six months.The Earl of Haddington
780in initialibus supported the bill. The report which had been made by the committee of the Faculty of Advocates recommended the chief alterations that would be made by this bill, and only objected to some minor points. The change respecting examination 780in initialibusLord Brougham
l.776l, l.l.,l.,, in presenting to the House a petition from the holders of Spanish Indemnity bonds, and asking the attention of the noble Viscount for a few moments to the statement of the petitioners, reminded the House that he had presented a similar petition just two years ago from the same parties, and couched in the same terms. On that occasion, the noble Viscount not only admitted the justice and strength, and truth of the representations made by the petitioners, but he had gone further, and declared that the claim of the petitioners was of such a nature, that it ought to be liquidated preferably to any other claims on the Spanish Government, and that her Majesty's Government would lose no time in urging the settlement of the demand. Nothing had, however, since been done for the relief of those parties; and therefore they had again come forward with a petition, in the hope of obtaining redress. A convention was entered into in 1823, by the ambassador from this country to the Court of Madrid, for the purpose of obtaining redress on account of certain outrages, and the capture of certain property by the Spanish Government previous to that year. A mixed commission was in consequence appointed to examine the matter; but nothing was done up to the year 1828, when the parties complaining, by his advice, agreed to a compromise. They were willing to receive 900.000l.776l, l.l.,l.,The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, that the treaty which had been entered into rendered it a British obligation to see that the demands of these bondholders were satisfied. These bondholders were not persons to enter into speculations in foreign funds; but they received those securities under the guarantee of a British treaty, and the obligation was fully admitted by the Spanish Government. It was no answer to tell those persons that one of the contracting parties was poor.The Earl of Aberdeen
penuria said, that to expunge the first clause would involve a denial of the truth, and a distinct refusal of evidence. Was this a proper state of legislation in a civilized country? Were they to take the recommendation of the Faculty of Advocates, contrary to the distinct advice of a committee appointed by that very body of advocates? Were they about to place on the shoulders of a judge the unpleasant responsibility of deciding whether, after five or six witnesses were examined, there was a penuriaLord Denman
778777 observed that the facts, as stated by his noble Friend, were perfectly indisputable; and he must fairly admit, that the claims of the petitioners were entitled to a priority of consideration with the Spanish Government. But when he made that admission, he must at the
778777Viscount Melbourne
779, having moved the second reading of the Law of Evidence (Scotland) Bill, stated that the object of the bill was to do away with the present rule in the Scottish courts of excluding all persons from being examined as witnesses in cases, where the parties concerned came within certain degrees of consanguinity. Such a rule must operate to the frustration of justice in many instances, where the transactions under inquiry had taken place in the bosom of a family, and within the cognizance of near relatives only. He could not conceive that any opposition would be offered to so rational a measure. What would their Lordships think, if any noble Lord were to propose to alter the law of England, so as to exclude persons from giving evidence in cases in which their relatives were concerned? Such a proposition would be
779The Lord Chancellor
 replied, and instanced a recent case, where four boys had been put on their trial for theft, and the case failed in consequence of the uncle of one of them being the only witness against them. Was it not requisite that a remedy should be provided for so monstrous an anomaly?The Lord Chancellor
, on moving the second reading of the County Constabulary Bill, stated that it was his intention, in compliance with the wish expressed to him by several noble Lords, to refer the bill, when it had passed through its present stage, to a Select Committee.The Marquess of Normanby
 was anxious to secure the adoption of the bill, but was satisfied that that object would not be attained, unless the example of Ireland in this respect were followed, and half the expense of the constabulary force put upon the consolidated fund. He should not oppose the sending the bill to a Select Committee up stairs; but he must observe, that in cases where evidence was not required, he thought this practice a bad one. It was of great importance that the public should know from day to day what their Lordships were doing, and how they did it. No publicity was given to the proceedings of a select committee, and for that reason he thought it should never be resorted to, except in cases where the peculiar nature of the subject to be considered rendered it absolutely necessary.Lord Ellenborough
 would endeavour to accommodate the principles of the proposed bills to the suggestions of the noble Duke. As there would be great difficulty in fixing the amount of the limitation, he would not commit himself as to that point on the present occasion.Viscount Duncannon
 wished to state to their Lordships that arrangements had been made for bringing in two other bills concerning the two disputed points—the compensation clauses and the boundary clauses. He had, therefore, to propose that the further consideration of this bill be postponed to Monday.Viscount Duncannon
817 said, that the clauses would be, in substance, the same
817Viscount Duncannon
 wished to have a complete understanding as to the compensation and boundary clauses; and begged to refer the noble Viscount to the amendments which had been proposed and printed on the first bill on this subject which had been laid on their Lordships' table, as expressing the wishes of those with whom he acted. As far as related to the boundary question, if the noble Viscount would compare the provisions contained in the Grand Jury Cess Bill with the amendments alluded to, he would find that they did not exactly correspond. He hoped, also, that they might expect a clause of compensation, in substance the same as that contained in the amendments.Lord Lyndhurst
d816 hoped the noble Viscount would state his reasons for the alterations he now proposed, so that they might be known before the next discussion of the bill came on. He, for one, considering what bad been passing in
d816The Duke of Wellington
860 wished to remove some misrepresentations which had been made with regard to a question which he put to the noble Marquess opposite the other night respecting the temperance movement in Ireland. He had stated that he thought it would have been better if the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland had expressed his gratitude for certain signs of a return to temperance amongst the Irish people, not in his official, but personal character. He had been represented as
860The Marquess of Westmeatk
 said, it was, no doubt, very natural for the noble Marquess, to take an opportunity of qualifying, rather than of retracting, the expressions he had formerly used.The Marquess of Normanby
858857856855854853852851 said, that he had taken the liberty to rise first on this important discussion, and he had done so with great diffidence; but considering the peculiar situation in which he stood in this country, he thought that it was his duty towards his Sovereign and towards his family, to express his opinion on this subject, which, he believed, was in perfect accordance with that of their Lordships' House. He meant, however, to limit himself to those observations only which he thought it was expedient to make, and which, from various circumstances, he had never been able to communicate, although it was his most anxious wish and desire to do so. He had another desire in presenting himself to their Lordships, inasmuch as in the tone and temper in which he should take the liberty of addressing their Lordships, he trusted that he might follow the example of their Lordships, for it was an example that ought to be followed, and adopt that temper and moderation in which a subject of such magnitude ought to be considered, and on which, they would permit him to say, all party feeling ought to be laid aside. He had no wish to excite any angry feeling, still less to make any opposition to the bill brought in by his noble Friend, if he would allow him to call him so; but, on the contrary, he wished to follow the example which that noble and learned Lord had set them in his speech on the introduction of this bill—a speech not more distinguished for its perspicuity than its delicacy in relation to the subject in question. He had had some experience in regency bills. He had taken an active part, in the year 1811 or 1812, when the bill was brought forward which placed his late Majesty George 4th in the situation of Regent; and sorry he was, on looking back to the events which took place at that time, to remember how much of acrimony was then displayed on both sides of the House. On the present occasion, however, he was consoled to think that the illustrious lady, our most gracious Sovereign, in communicating her anxious wish to take the advice of her Parliament, in devising the best means to provide for the establishment of a permanent Government, should the sad event
858857856855854853852851The Duke of Sussex
sui juris859 observed, that the situation which the illustrious Duke filled, rendered it natural that he should take that opportunity of stating the views which he took of the measure now under consideration. It was natural that the illustrious Duke should feel great interest in the question, not only from the attachment which lie necessarily felt towards the Throne, but from the great regard which he had always shown for the interests of the people. It gave him great satisfaction to rind that the illustrious Duke concurred in the general plan and principle of the measure submitted to the consideration of Parliament. There were, however, two points upon which the illustrious Duke had made some observations, to which he would request their Lordships' attention for a very few moments. The first observation of the illustrious Duke went to this: that the provisions of the bill were not sufficiently comprehensive to meet every possible contingency. But it must be borne in mind that it would require the concurrence of two events before the contingency to which the illustrious Duke had referred could arise. And although it was the duty of Parliament, and consistent with the wisdom of Parliament, to make provision by anticipation for events which were dependent upon the duration of a single life, he apprehended it was not consistent either with the usage or duty of Parliament, or indeed with the principles of the constitution, to legislate by anticipation for a longer period than the urgency of the case demanded. It was highly improbable that there should not be an opportunity of again coming to Parliament to make provision against the second contingency to which the illustrious Duke had referred. For that reason it would, in his opinion, be most improper to legislate for it by anticipation. Their Lord-
sui juris859The Lord Chancellor
850 said,
850The Lord Chancellor
904, after presenting a petition from the University of Oxford against the Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill, said, I entirely differ from the petitioners, who indeed show, by some of their own statements, the necessity which exists for such a measure; for they complain of the parochial deficiency of the Church of England at the present time. But it is in vain, my Lords, for any man in these times to expect that that deficiency will be made up out of the public money whilst the Church has in itself resources that maybe applied to the purpose. I say, my Lords, that all the resources which the Church possesses should be applied to supply that deficiency and to remove those inconveniences. The petitioners themselves admit that the evil exists; and it is most desirable, both for the public good and for the good of the Church itself, that those inconveniences should be remedied and removed. I confess, therefore, that I heard with astonishment, that this petition was got up in the University of Oxford, and that these pe-
904The Duke of Wellington
 brought up the Report of the Select Committee on the Chimney Sweepers Bill, and moved that the bill, together with the amendments, be printed. When the bill was formerly before the House, he expressed a hope that in committee relief might be given to the suffering class of persons—the climbing boys—to whom the bill referred, by the invention of a system of cleansing chimneys with machinery, affording security to the public against danger from fire. He was happy to say that his hope and expectation had not been disappointed, and that the bill, in all its main provisions, would be found to meet the evil that existed, and at the same time afford the protection that was required. The bill as it came from the Commons would have come into operation on the first of January, 1841, but the committee deeming it desirable that the new system should come simultaneously into use in Ireland and Scotland as well as in England, the time of its commencement had been postponed till July, 1842.The Earl of Haddington
 said, that the evidence given before the committee had induced him to change the opinion he originally entertained upon this bill, and he was now quite willing to give it his support. He was satisfied the public could dispense with climbing boys to clean chimneys, although they would be occasionally necessary for the purpose of repairing chimneys.The Earl of Wicklow
982, being one of those who had opposed referring this bill to a Select Committee, thought it
982The Marquess of Normanby
994993992991990 had great difficulty in approaching the consideration of this subject, and he felt that that difficulty was in no small degree increased by the manner in which the noble Viscount had introduced it. He felt the kindness of his expressions towards the Church, and in common with all his brethren felt grateful for the justice the noble Viscount had done to the several orders of that Church, and for his admission, that no case of delinquency on their part had led to the bringing in of the present measure. He doubted whether he had the power to fix their Lordships' attention to a subject of this momentous nature, more especially when he considered the character that had been
994993992991990The Bishop of Winchester
bonâ fide100710061005"You swear in the name of William Howley to maintain the rights, liberties, and privileges of this Church, and to observe all the approved customs thereof, and to cause them to be observed by others, so far as such customs are not repugnant to God's holy word, to the laws of this realm, and to his Majesty's prerogative."1004"I have every respect for my archdeacon, but nevertheless, I did not choose to sign the petitions, and therefore I told the clergy of my deanery that I would not circulate the petitions, and they told me in return that I did quite right."10031002in commendam,l10011000l999998997l996l"Were no addition made," said the report, "to benefices having a population under 500 souls, 235,000l996l995 agreed with his right rev. Friend, that this bill involved a question of the greatest importance both to the nation and to the Church; and although he could not but feel some difficulty in standing forward to justify the measure, after the very eloquent speech
bonâ fide100710061005"You swear in the name of William Howley to maintain the rights, liberties, and privileges of this Church, and to observe all the approved customs thereof, and to cause them to be observed by others, so far as such customs are not repugnant to God's holy word, to the laws of this realm, and to his Majesty's prerogative."1004"I have every respect for my archdeacon, but nevertheless, I did not choose to sign the petitions, and therefore I told the clergy of my deanery that I would not circulate the petitions, and they told me in return that I did quite right."10031002in commendam,l10011000l999998997l996l"Were no addition made," said the report, "to benefices having a population under 500 souls, 235,000l996l995The Archbishop of Canterbury
10091008Statuimus canonicos, cum aliis, constitui in ecclesiâ cathedrali. rose to protest against the bill. He readily admitted that the question was one of great extent and difficulty. He would take no exception to the composition of the ecclesiastical commission, nor at all object to the right of the Legislature to deal with this revenue. He would take narrower ground, and show that these chapters had functions, vested in them by various statutes, essential at all times to be exercised, and most essential at the present time. What he held to be necessary was to revive and enforce these duties upon them. This was an argument which might be urged even on expediency alone. The powers to which he referred were inherent in these bodies, they were implied in their statutes, and, though dormant for a considerable period, they were plainly imbued with a spirit of vitality. This was the ground which had been taken in a very able pamphlet by Mr. George Selwyn, and it was strongly confirmed by many of the views put forth in the Rev. Sydney Smith's writings. In the statutes of the cathedral of Ely, he found the canons existing as an independent body—10091008Statuimus canonicos, cum aliis, constitui in ecclesiâ cathedrali.Lord Lyttleton
ll101710161015 hoped their Lordships would allow him to endeavour to satisfy the noble Earl with respect to one particular ground of his complaint against the present measure—namely, that it proceeded without sufficient inquiry The noble Earl had said that the commissioners had not, so far as their Lordships were aware, made any inquiry or examination into the spiritual wants of the parishes, and into the circumstances of the chapters which this bill affected. This must be a misapprehension. The noble Earl would probably recollect that as long as five years
ll101710161015The Bishop of Gloucester
10211020"We have had at the same time four prebendaries, of whom two were more than seventy years of age, and two more than eighty, and one was such an invalid as to be incapable of duty. What would have been said if we had been limited to those four, with regard to the manner in which the service of the cathedral was performed."10191018 trusted that this would not be made a party question, but that their Lordships would exercise their own judgment and discretion in dealing with the bill. Having witnessed the reformation of their civil institutions he was by no means ignorant that such a reform brought with it a like reform of the polity and outward frame-work of the Church as it stood connected with the State. Such a reformation of the ecclesiastical establishment he had always desired. Although the commission was not framed in such a manner as to preclude objection, yet it was composed of persons in whom the Church could place confidence, and whose recommendations they trusted would be for the benefit of the Church. He would not oppose the present measure on the ground that reform was less necessary in the cathedrals than in the other parts of the establishment; for, although there had been no charges brought against them, yet he admitted that it was but incidental to ancient establishments to deviate from the purposes of their founders. The present measure, however, had not for its object the removal of any abuse; but in professing to reform one part of the eccle-
10211020"We have had at the same time four prebendaries, of whom two were more than seventy years of age, and two more than eighty, and one was such an invalid as to be incapable of duty. What would have been said if we had been limited to those four, with regard to the manner in which the service of the cathedral was performed."10191018The Bishop of Salisbury
 founded his support of the measure upon the grounds stated by his right rev. Friend who moved the amendment, and by the learned counsel who had addressed their Lordships in opposition to the bill, namely, upon the ground of necessity—the necessity of removing that spiritual destitution which was fraught with so much peril, not only to the Established Church, but to society in general. It was the duty of a Christian Government to remove the spiritual destitution of the people, and he would ask out of what funds was that object to be effected? Could it not be done without laying new taxes upon the country? He should recommend the abolition of all prebends which were not now devoted to the purposes for which they were originally intended.The Bishop of Lincoln
 declared to their Lordships, that his oath as a Bishop would not allow him to support the bill.The Bishop of Rochester
ll1012llllllll1011, having been personally alluded to by the noble Lord who had just sat down, felt called upon to address a few observations to their Lordships in reference to the opinions which he had formerly entertained on this important subject. It was true that he had published a pamphlet, thirty years ago upon this subject, which then engaged very little attention, either on the part of Parliament or the country. This pamphlet, however, was a strictly private communication, addressed to Mr. Percival, with whom he happened to be politically connected, and whose friendship he regarded as a great honour. So little did he consider this slight sketch to be worthy of public notice, that he was only induced to consent to its being published in an anonymous form. Great exertions had been made by Mr. Percival to devise a scheme for the provision of sufficient funds for the erection of places of public worship, and for increasing the incomes of poor ministers; and, at his request, he devoted his particular attention to this subject. He found the task a very appalling one when he came to appreciate the amount of money that would be required adequately to supply the want, and he was very anxious to see this burthen press as lightly as possible upon the public. In looking to the means which the Church itself possessed, he had no intention generally to abolish the chapters; but to make use of the power possessed by the Crown of enforcing the useful employment of the livings belonging to them, With regard to the right of Parliament to interfere in the matter, that was a point which he would not debate at the present moment. He could not help remarking, however, that it appeared to him that the learned counsel who had displayed so much ingenuity and research on this subject at the bar, had confounded the judicial functions and powers of the House with those which were of a legislative nature, and which were wholly distinct, and unfettered by the same rules and restrictions. He believed it was generally admitted that the rights of property of every kind subsisted entirely by virtue of a convention of society, and ought to exist only for the benefit of society. Parliament, in abundant instances, had exercised a right not of alienating or confiscating the property of the Church, but of disposing of it under such restrictions as
ll1012llllllll1011The Earl of Harrowby
10141013 considered this to be a measure of deep importance, and he confessed, that his opinion of its grave and paramount importance had been greatly increased by the course which this debate had taken. Their Lordships had been distinctly told if the Government of the day happened to appoint a commission, and that commission expressed an opinion that a great and important change ought to be made in any of the ancient institutions of the country, by which a great mass of property would he taken away from a large body of men connected with that institution, it was one of the functions of the Government to act upon the opinion so expressed. Their Lordships had been told, that the recommendation of the commission was a sufficient ground for them to interfere, without having before them one tittle of evidence upon which that recommendation rested. If it were possible that he could yield to any authority his noble Friend near him (the Earl of Harrowby) and the most rev. Prelate and right rev. Prelates who were members of the commission might be assured that he should be as ready to yield to their authority as any man; but he could only act after seeing what the nature of their recommendations was, and after endeavouring to ascertain what were the grounds on which those recommendations were founded, and if he found that the evidence did not support the conclusions to which the commissioners had come, he felt it his duty to oppose the measure come from what quarter it might. He first looked at the report, and found nothing said as to the nature of the duties of the commissioners. He then looked at the commission itself, and he found, that the commissioners were "to consider the state of the several cathedrals and collegiate bodies, with a view to render them conducive to the efficiency of the Established Church." Having read these words, his first impression was, that he should find in the report some suggestion as to the manner in which these cathedrals and
10141013The Earl of Devon
989Laughter988ll987986985metus qui caderit in constantem virum.metus"When I appointed that commission," said the right hon. Baronet, "I did not do so from any temporary motive, or under any apprehension of danger, but from a desire to provide for the religious destitution which existed in some of the largest manufacturing towns in this country, and which I felt it could not be for the interests of the Church of England to allow to exist without making some vigorous effort to remedy it."984"I have appointed a commission for considering the state of the several dioceses in England and Wales, with reference to the amount of their revenues, and to the more equal distribution of episcopal duties; the state of the several cathedral and collegiate churches, with a view to the suggestion of such measures as may render them most conducive to the efficiency of the Established Church, and for devising the best mode of providing for the cure of souls with reference to the residence of the clergy in their respective benefices. The especial object which I have in view in the appointment of this commission is to extend more widely the means of religious worship, according to the doctrines of the Established Church, and to confirm its hold upon the veneration and affections of my people."983 never felt himself oppressed with his own weakness and want of ability more than on the present occasion, when he had to bring before their Lordships a question which, without doubt, was of very great magnitude, and of very great importance; which not only involved important general principles connected with Church government, but also many questions of common and of ecclesiastical law, with which he must necessarily be very imperfectly acquainted. He felt, under these circumstances, great satisfaction, support, and consolation, in being supported and assisted by those who had complete and thorough knowledge of the whole of this subject, and who were well acquainted with the present system, and also with that system which was sought to be established, and who would be able to correct any error he might commit, and supply any deficiency in his statement. Upon the present occasion, the second reading of the bill, although there were many details which were of very great importance, and which required their Lordships' careful attention, he should confine himself entirely to the general principle of the bill; which was this—whether their Lordships consented or not to a reduction of the present cathedral establishments, and an application of the fund which would be raised by that reduction to remedy a crying evil, which had been brought before their Lordships in so strong and cogent a manner, and which had a powerful claim upon their Lordships' justice and feelings, namely, the unhappy destitution of spiritual instruction which unquestionably, from various causes, prevailed throughout a great part of this country. These were the general principles that he asked their Lordships to consent to on the present occasion. He must be allowed to remark, before he proceeded further, that there was an error into which the learned counsel who had addressed their Lordships had, no doubt, unintentionally been betrayed in the heat and hurry of their speaking, and in the
989Laughter988ll987986985metus qui caderit in constantem virum.metus"When I appointed that commission," said the right hon. Baronet, "I did not do so from any temporary motive, or under any apprehension of danger, but from a desire to provide for the religious destitution which existed in some of the largest manufacturing towns in this country, and which I felt it could not be for the interests of the Church of England to allow to exist without making some vigorous effort to remedy it."984"I have appointed a commission for considering the state of the several dioceses in England and Wales, with reference to the amount of their revenues, and to the more equal distribution of episcopal duties; the state of the several cathedral and collegiate churches, with a view to the suggestion of such measures as may render them most conducive to the efficiency of the Established Church, and for devising the best mode of providing for the cure of souls with reference to the residence of the clergy in their respective benefices. The especial object which I have in view in the appointment of this commission is to extend more widely the means of religious worship, according to the doctrines of the Established Church, and to confirm its hold upon the veneration and affections of my people."983Viscount Melbourne
1068l.l. presented a petition from the emancipated slaves of the island of Barbadoes, complaining of the present constitution of that island. Their chief objection was precisely the same as that which was made by some of their white brethren in this country, and related to the qualification that was required to entitle an individual to vote for members of the House of Assembly. The qualification was a freehold house of 301068l.l.Lord Brougham
l.l.l. said, he wished to put a question to the noble Viscount at the head of her Majesty's Government, in consequence of a conversation that had occurred not long ago in another place. From what came out in that conversation, it appeared, that the rev. Dr. M'Gill, who a few years since had been presented with the situation of King's Chaplain in Scotland, bad not received the usual salary or fee of 50l.l.l.The Earl of Haddington
l.l.1069l. regretted that her Majesty's Government meant to discontinue this miserable pittance of 50l.l.1069l.The Earl of Haddington
l.1070 in moving the third reading of this bill, said it might be expedient for him to state the objects of this measure. Their Lordships were perhaps not aware of the real circumstances of the case, and he would therefore inform them, that it arose from the extremely nourishing condition of the river Weaver navigation, in consequence of the faithful discharge of their duty by the trustees of the river. A certain Act of Parliament which had been passed, empowered them to expend such portion of the tolls as they might think fit in maintaining the good order and use of the navigation, and they held it to be roost important for that purpose, that the labourers employed on that river should be honest and trustworthy persons. But it was impossible to expect that, unless they were religious, and there was no possibility of their being so unless they received religious instruction. The trustees had already passed a bye-law preventing the labourers from working on the Sabbath-day, but the consequence of that was, that a numerous body of persons assembled on the banks of the river on Sunday, having little opportunity of attending any place of divine worship, or obtaining religious instruction; for of the churches at the three principal points of the river, two afforded very insufficient accommodation for religious worship, and
l.1070The Bishop of London
 rose for the purpose of moving as an amendment, that the bill be read a third time this day six months. It was a measure that would lead to very important results in regard to the public rates and trusts of the country. He admitted it had a very great advantage in being supported by the right rev. Prelate who had just sat down; but, grieved as he was at that right rev. Prelate being a promoter of it, he had the satisfaction of knowing that another right rev. Prelate, who was to have the patronage created by it, was opposed to the measure. When their Lordships recollected that the right rev. Prelate had not attempted to make a single statement on the subject, he thought they would pause before they gave their sanction to a measure, in itself so objectionable. It was a bill in direct violation of a trust and an act of Parliament; and if it were passed, it would be a dangerous precedent in future for interfering with all trust funds and public rates. It was said, that there was a certain number of workmen on the banks of this river in a state of religious destitution; but that they denied: they said they did not want this offer, they were perfectly satisfied to remain as they were. From the petitions which had been presented, he might say, that the feeling of the county was directly against the bill—most notoriously, decidedly, and strongly against it. And yet the right rev. Prelate seemed to think, because the workmen were satisfied with their present condition, that was the very reason why the bill should be forced upon them. It was true they had been prevented from working on the Sabbath-day, and they were no doubt thankful for it, as they wanted a day of rest; but they wanted nothing more.The Marquess of Westminster
l.10731072 observed, that the present was not by any means a doubtful question. Was the House prepared to interfere with rights of the trustees—rights created under an act of Parliament? Their Lordships could not pass this bill without violating certain trusts It might be contended that the same
l.10731072Lord Stanley (of Alderley)
l. said, that he never had had to do with so serious a question as that of the Weaver Churches in any committee on a private bill. He had given it all the attention in his power, and he must say, it did appear to him that a very serious responsibility lay at the door of the trustees of the River Weaver Fund. The population of that district were left destitute of religious instruction and of pastoral aid. He never thought it possible that any part of this country, whatever might be the case with regard to Ireland, could be in a state of such deplorable destitution as the evidence before the committee showed that that district was. In addition to the other facts proved before them, this distinctly appeared, that there was upon the river a floating population of upwards of 1,000 persons, and they were left to idleness and vice throughout the whole of the Sunday. The only question for the House was this—were they entitled to take the Weaver Fund for the purpose of building and endowing churches? It was strictly a Parliamentary trust fund; there was nothing in it of private bounty. It was a fund applicable in the first instance to the improvement of the navigation of the river; applicable in the second place to the aid of the public works of the county of Chester. When those objects were accomplished, but not until then, Parliament acquired a right to deal with the fund, not judicially, but acting as the Legislature of the country. A sum of 300,000l.Lord Lurgan
l. was understood to say, that it was determined not to grant the 50l.Viscount Melbourne
 was quite satisfied with the manner in which this bill was framed. It was calculated to carry into effect the views of himself and his noble Friends, and he, for one, readily consented to it.Lord Lyndhurst
 was not at all surprised to hear his noble Friend express his approbation of the bill, for he believed the measure to be wholly and entirely his work. Indeed, his noble Friend seemed to have had the matter all his own way. The Irish Municipal Corporations Bill had, it appeared, been postponed, with the understanding, that unless certain amendments were introduced, the noble Duke opposite and his noble and learned Friend would oppose that measure on the third reading. This new bill was in consequence introduced, although in 1838 there was an understanding that the Irish Municipal Corporations Bill would be allowed to pass without any such measure being attached to it as that which was now under consideration.Lord Brougham
 said, this question of Irish Municipal Corporations had been under discussion for several years, and, as the bill for settling that question was now about to be passed, he hoped that no contest would be raised on either side of the House to retard that event. It was, he conceived, most desirable that this subject should now be set at rest for ever.The Duke of Wellington
 said, he had no desire to create any contest. As to the concession which had been made to the opinion of noble Lords opposite, he did not mean to express any disapprobation of it. He should only say that he and his Friends had not got such terms as they had hoped for—namely, that the Irish Corporation Bill would have been allowed to pass unaccompanied by the present measure.Lord Brougham
 said, the great question was, whether the division of districts was to be vested in the town-councils or the grand juries. He still retained his opinion, that it would be better if the power were given to the town-councils. But still he thought that that was not a point of sufficient importance to justify any delay in passing a measure of so much interest as the Irish Municipal Corporations Bill.The Marquess of Lansdowne
 regretted that the clause which he wished to introduce on the subject of compensation had not found favour in another place. It was a clause which would have become law, if the Irish Municipal Corporations Bill had passed in 1838. The clause simply went to allow officers employed under the present corporations three months to consider of their resignation; and if within those three months they thought proper to retire, that then they should, like other parties, be allowed proper compensation.The Earl of Haddington
 complained of the injustice which the city of Cork would suffer in consequence of the new settlement of the boundaries. Persons connected with a district comprising sixty-five square miles round Cork would have the power of voting for a rate to which they would not contribute one farthing.Lord Carbery
 said, the question was not whether this bill was in conformity with any preceding proposition. No; the matter for the consideration of that House was, whether the measure contained provisions that were unjust in themselves, and were likely to lead to consequences that their Lordships might hereafter deplore. If the statement of the noble Baron (Carbery) were correct, the operation of this bill was calculated to produce most mischievous results. By whomsoever the blunder had been committed, it was a blunder that was calculated to affect most injuriously the Protestant interest in Ireland, by extending the right of voting beyond what was contemplated by the Reform Bill. In his opinion, they could not pass it without sacrificing the Protestant interest in Ireland, and he trusted that their Lordships would do their duty by rejecting the measure.The Bishop of Exeter
1114 rose for the purpose
1114Viscount Strangford
 said, that he was chiefly alarmed by that portion of the statements referred to which alleged that no communication had been made to France till after the completion of the treaty. That which he wished to know was whether all communication on the subject had been withholden from France?Lord Brougham
1155115411531152"Do the prebendaries preach themselves?—Some do: chiefly those appointed by the present bishop (Bishop Burgess): but in general they pay a couple of guineas to one of the priest-vicars, and the dean, or canons in residence, preach the sermons.""Would the service of the Church suffer materially if the whole of the prebends were to be abolished?—Not materially."From your experience, as dean of the cathedral church, are you of opinion, that the service might be conducted with sufficient solemnity and propriety, by a dean, four canons, two minor canons, or priest-vicars, six laymen, as singers, and six or eight boys?—Yes; I should think so."From your own observation, would it not be a better arrangement, that the residentiaries should be nominated by the bishop, than that they should be elected by their own body?—Unquestionably."Are you of opinion, that the duties of the cathedral might be very well performed by the dean and four residentiaries?—I certainly see no reason why they should not; inasmuch as I perform a fourth part of them alone.Are not all the houses fit for residence?—Yes.""How many of the residentiaries reside in their houses?—At present only one.1151"I think chapter patronage is very badly intrusted to such bodies as chapter bodies; where the usual practice is, to give livings in rotation, without considering the fitness of the person to be appointed; and if he is not considered decidedly unfit, he has it, when it comes to his turn, as a matter of course. That
1151115011491148otium cum dignitate,114711461145114411431142l."With respect to prebends not having seats in any chapter, of which, in several of the old dioceses there are many, it may be fairly questioned, whether their continuance is at all desirable. Their revenues, upon the next vacancies, might be applied, without invading the fair rights or reasonable expectations of the lessees, to other useful purposes. The tithes held under them might still be leased, with a strict attention, however, to the provision made in the case of chapters, viz., that every lease of tithes belonging to a prebend shall reserve such a sum to be paid to the incumbent, as shall make his income at least 200l.1141"In those chapters which are mainly endowed with tithes, it might be advisable to reduce the number of canons, rather than forego this important provision (of augmenting poor vicarages). The Chapter of Windsor has, in the diocese of Exeter alone, at least a dozen very small livings (with scarcely a single house of residence among them), of which the chapter has the great tithes. The consequence of laying the proposed charge on the Chapter of Windsor, would probably be such a reduction of its revenues as might render necessary a reduction of the number of its canons. A similar consequence may follow in other cases. But it appears to be absolutely necessary, for the favourable estimation of chapters in general, that they be no where felt to be the cause of an inadequate endowment of a cure of souls."l.l."As there would be a sum of 12,000l.l."Now it will probably," he says, "be considered sufficient, in the case of future incumbents, to leave to them only their share of the common dividend. The peculiar estates, or corpses, as they are called, of the deanery and stalls might be employed in endowing poor benefices with cure of souls."l.l.,l.114011391138l.l.l.1137113611351134*** spoke to the following effect:1155115411531152"Do the prebendaries preach themselves?—Some do: chiefly those appointed by the present bishop (Bishop Burgess): but in general they pay a couple of guineas to one of the priest-vicars, and the dean, or canons in residence, preach the sermons.""Would the service of the Church suffer materially if the whole of the prebends were to be abolished?—Not materially."From your experience, as dean of the cathedral church, are you of opinion, that the service might be conducted with sufficient solemnity and propriety, by a dean, four canons, two minor canons, or priest-vicars, six laymen, as singers, and six or eight boys?—Yes; I should think so."From your own observation, would it not be a better arrangement, that the residentiaries should be nominated by the bishop, than that they should be elected by their own body?—Unquestionably."Are you of opinion, that the duties of the cathedral might be very well performed by the dean and four residentiaries?—I certainly see no reason why they should not; inasmuch as I perform a fourth part of them alone.Are not all the houses fit for residence?—Yes.""How many of the residentiaries reside in their houses?—At present only one.1151"I think chapter patronage is very badly intrusted to such bodies as chapter bodies; where the usual practice is, to give livings in rotation, without considering the fitness of the person to be appointed; and if he is not considered decidedly unfit, he has it, when it comes to his turn, as a matter of course. That
1151115011491148otium cum dignitate,114711461145114411431142l."With respect to prebends not having seats in any chapter, of which, in several of the old dioceses there are many, it may be fairly questioned, whether their continuance is at all desirable. Their revenues, upon the next vacancies, might be applied, without invading the fair rights or reasonable expectations of the lessees, to other useful purposes. The tithes held under them might still be leased, with a strict attention, however, to the provision made in the case of chapters, viz., that every lease of tithes belonging to a prebend shall reserve such a sum to be paid to the incumbent, as shall make his income at least 200l.1141"In those chapters which are mainly endowed with tithes, it might be advisable to reduce the number of canons, rather than forego this important provision (of augmenting poor vicarages). The Chapter of Windsor has, in the diocese of Exeter alone, at least a dozen very small livings (with scarcely a single house of residence among them), of which the chapter has the great tithes. The consequence of laying the proposed charge on the Chapter of Windsor, would probably be such a reduction of its revenues as might render necessary a reduction of the number of its canons. A similar consequence may follow in other cases. But it appears to be absolutely necessary, for the favourable estimation of chapters in general, that they be no where felt to be the cause of an inadequate endowment of a cure of souls."l.l."As there would be a sum of 12,000l.l."Now it will probably," he says, "be considered sufficient, in the case of future incumbents, to leave to them only their share of the common dividend. The peculiar estates, or corpses, as they are called, of the deanery and stalls might be employed in endowing poor benefices with cure of souls."l.l.,l.114011391138l.l.l.1137113611351134***The Bishop of London
112911281127l.1126l.l.,l.1125l.l.l.112411231122l.11211120"Not for the music, but the doctrine there."sine cura animarum.1119111811171116 said, that before their Lordships proceeded to consider tin's bill in committee, he wished to trespass upon their indulgence by making a few observations. He had been deterred from doing this upon the night when their Lordships gave the bill a second reading, in consequence of the late hour to which the discussion of that evening had been protracted, and also by a wish on his part to leave as much time as possible to those of his right rev. brethren who then addressed the House, and who were not so much in the habit of troubling their Lordships as unfortunately happened to be the case with him. In looking at the bill, the object of which was to settle the duties and revenues of the Church, he could not help noticing, in the first place, a matter which appeared to him of no trifling consideration—namely, that the clergy had had no opportunity of expressing their sentiments with reference to the proposed measure until after the ecclesiastical commissioners had actually made their report. From the time the suggestions in the report became known, the expression of their dislike became general; there was not one petition in favour of the bill till within these few days, when the minor canons addressed the House on the subject; yet Parliament heard nothing of them until the other House thought proper to give to the minor canons an interest in the patronage of the chapters. He had himself presented a petition from the vicars-choral of Exeter against the bill, and he had understood from one who was not likely to be uninformed on the subject, that petitions had been presented to the other House bearing from 3,000 to 4,000 signatures. Of this he felt assured, that many petitions had been presented to the Commons, of which no duplicates had ever reached their Lordships. He might say, that the whole of the clergy were opposed to the measure, and he would illustrate this by mentioning the fact, that in one district of the diocese of Gloucester, where the number of the clergy was only fifty, there were forty-
112911281127l.1126l.l.,l.1125l.l.l.112411231122l.11211120"Not for the music, but the doctrine there."sine cura animarum.1119111811171116The Bishop of Exeter
1130 rose for the purpose of setting the right rev. Prelate who had just sat down right upon a point on which it was quite evident that he had misunderstood him. The right rev. Prelate understood me to say, that I had gone to his grace the Duke of Wellington, and afterwards to Earl Grey, and had expressed to them my desire for a Church reform. Now, what I stated was this, that the very words which the noble Duke used in his place a few nights ago with respect to this measure, were the words which he employed to me in a conversation, upon this subject. I said, that I had had several confidential communications with the noble Duke upon this subject. The noble Duke told me that something must be done upon it, but that that something must in the first instance come from the Church. I said, that subsequently, when Earl Grey succeeded to the administration, he held to me the same language. Then the right rev. Prelate adverts to a message on the subject which I received from Earl Grey, and which I communicated to the rest of the bishops at Lambeth. I cannot charge my
1130The Archbishop of Canterbury
 was understood to corroborate his former statement by a reference to a charge delivered by the Bishop of London to the clergy of his diocese in the year 1837. His right rev. Friend, in alluding to the outcry which had been raised against the Church Commissioners, said, that it had been stated by the Archbishop of Canterbury, in his speech to the House of Lords in the year 1836, that "he had long been aware of the necessity of taking strong measures for the correction of the abuses and for the remedy of the anomalies which had crept into the church." His right rev. Friend added, that the Archbishop said, "that the first step after his accession to the primacy was to confer with the noble Duke on the subject of these abuses and these anomalies, and that a bill for their correction and removal was ready at the time when the change took place in the Administration."The Bishop of Exeter
.—That is perfectly true. I have said that I had conferred with the Duke of Wellington on the subject.The Archbishop of Canterbury
—Well; I stated nothing more on the subject than that the right rev. Prelate did confer with the noble Duke. But, to proceed with the extract—"On the accession of Earl Grey to power the Archbishop of Canterbury declared his views to Earl Grey, and met from him the same ready concurrence which he had already met from his predecessor in office." What, he would ask, was the meaning of that sentence?The Bishop of Exeter
.—Concurrence to the point that many abuses had crept into the Church, and ought to be corrected, on which point the right, rev. Prelate himself used stronger language, and proposed much more searching and vigorous improvements, than any contained in the present bill.The Archbishop of Canterbury
: I am bound to say, and I say it with great pain, that after what has just passed, there must be given to the world the correspondence which then look place between me and his grace the Primate.The Bishop of Exeter
1115 replied, that communications had been made to France
1115Viscount Melbourne
 said, it was perfectly true that negotiations had been entered into on the subject to which the noble Viscount referred between this country, Austria, Russia, Prussia, and the sublime Porte, with a view to the pacification of the Levant. It was also perfectly true that those negotiations had been considerably advanced, but he never regarded such matters as settled until they were ratified; therefore all he could now say, was, that such negotiations were going on.Viscount Melbourne
11331132 felt himself called upon to say a few words in reference to what had fallen from the right rev. Prelates who had just addressed the House. He could not inform their Lordships of the terms of the conference which had taken place between himself and his grace the Archbishop of Canterbury: "for, to say the truth," continued the noble Duke, "I do not recollect one word of it. But this I do know, that I never entertained but one opinion on this subject. That opinion was, that it was essentially necessary that additional measures ought to be adopted in this country for preaching the word of God to the people thereof; and that, considering in what degrees the Church of this country was endowed, it was expedient that the first step in order to procure funds for that purpose should be made by the clergy themselves. I always entertained those opinions. When any of the right rev. Prelates opposite conversed with me on this subject, I stated those opinions. I cannot recollect on what, occasion or in what words those opinions were delivered to the most rev. Prelate, but in presenting a petition to your Lordships a few nights ago, from the University of Oxford against this bill, I said I hat in my correspondence with that university I had stated the same opinions, and that latterly I had gone still further, and said,
11331132The Duke of Wellington
 begged to call their Lordships' attention, especially that of his noble and learned Friend on ths woolsack, and his noble and learned Friend opposite (Lord Lyndhurst), to a bill which he was about to introduce to their notice. It was not usual to state the objects of a measure on the first reading, but there were reasons which induced him, on the present occasion, to break through that rule. A very important measure had been withdrawn from the other House, which he deeply lamented. That bill amongst other things, empowered the heads of the Court of Chancery to make such alterations and improvements in the proceedings of the court, with regard to taking evidence and other matters, as would have been of the greatest benefit to the suitors. On this point there was no difference of opinion whatever; but the bill had, he was sorry to say, excited considerable opposition. The bill which he now brought forward, however, referred exclusively to this single point. On this a unanimous opinion had been expressed, both in a select committee up stairs and by their Lordships. He, therefore, trusted, that the House of Commons would receive the bill, and pass it without any opposition. On Monday he should move the second reading of the measure, and the suspension of the standing orders, in order that it might be sent down to the House of Commons without any delay.Lord Brougham
1165 objected to this bill being passed without due inquiry being made as to the grounds on which the usury laws were to be done away with. He believed, that he should be able to produce before a committee of inquiry, some, most grievous cases of oppression upon tradesmen and small annuitants by
1165Lord Wharncliffe
 said, he had listened with some anxiety to hear from the noble Marquess opposite what possible inconvenience could result from the postponement of this bill for another Session. The noble Marquess was greatly mistaken, if he supposed, that the great mass of the business of this country was carried on upon bills of twelve months, or six months, or even of longer date than three months. The information which he had received, and upon which the Government had proceeded in framing this measure, had come from bankers and great money-lenders, who all had a distinct interest in making what were formerly considered usurious practices legal. The greatest mischief had resulted from lending money at a high rate of interest, and the conduct of the Bank of England in this respect had led to its own embarrassment, and driven it to within a hair's breadth of stopping payment, and to the discreditable necessity of borrowing money itself. This bill would not correct the evils with which the money market was infected; it would only enable rich money-lenders to profit by the necessities of their poorer neighbours. The real question which their Lordships had to consider at that moment was, whether the noble Marquess had proved that there was the slightest necessity for hurrying this bill through Parliament within a few days of its prorogation. He earnestly recommended their Lordships not to think of extending the measure to the period proposed without further inquiry.Lord Ashburton
11671166 rejoiced to hear that his noble Friends were disposed to entertain, even next Session, an inquiry into the operation of the usury laws heretofore, and into the effects produced by the alterations which had been made in those laws. With respect to the remarks of the noble Lord upon the evidence of bankers and great money-lenders, he would ask, was not their evidence one of the elements upon which legislation in this matter should proceed? But it would be asked, will you not hear the other classes who have paid large sums of money for the accommodation they have received? No doubt they ought to be heard; and at the same time it would be as well to consider whether
11671166Lord Monteagle
 had no doubt that the capital which had come into the market since the partial repeal of the usury laws would not have been left unemployed, even if those laws had not been relaxed, but it would have gone to other countries, and have been invested in illegal and fraudulent speculations. The great merit of the present bill was, that it put an end to the great mass of illegal and fraudulent transactions which formerly were carried on. He was quite ready to close with the proposition made by the noble baron opposite, that the question of the operation of the usury laws, one most important to the interests of the country, should be the subject of a grave and full inquiry before a committee, and he agreed that it would not be desirable to consider it in connexion with the affairs of the Bank and the future administration of that body. He was perfectly prepared, therefore, to omit the word "two" in the bill, and continue the present law for one year longer only, with the understanding that in the course of the next session their Lordships should go into a full inquiry on the subject.The Marquess of Lansdowne,
 said, that if the noble Marquess would confine the operation of this bill to one year, and would undertake that there should be a full inquiry next session, that would quite answer his purpose.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, the Recorder of Cork did not hold an office of the same magnitude as that of the Recorder of Dublin, nor did he hold a Court of Oyer and Terminer. The noble Viscount opposite said, that he should like to know what difference there was between the Recorder of Dublin and other recorders in Ireland. He would tell the noble Viscount. The Recorder of Dublin, happened to be a Member of the other House of Parliament, and the whole object of the bill was to prevent him from sitting there. Now, if it were right that the Recorder of Dublin should not have a seat in Parliament, in Heaven's name let a bill be brought in with that avowed object, but he would resist any measure which, like this, attempted to effect that object in an underhand manner.The Earl of Haddington
 observed, that the whole debate showed that the amendment was supported upon party and personal motives. The measure was considered solely with reference to the right hon. Mr. Shaw, an able, an upright, and a learned judge, he admitted; just as if he were immortal, and was to be Recorder of Dublin for ever. Not one word had been said about the welfare of the people of Dublin on the other side of the House. Exactly the same thing was done when this measure was passed, and that measure rejected, because it would be disagreeable or agreeable to Mr. O'Connell; and now, because Mr. Shaw was concerned, the cause of good legislation and the due administration of justice in Ireland was sacrificed. As to the comparison made between London and Dublin, it proved nothing, for experience showed that a gaol delivery once a month was not sufficient in Dublin.The Marquess of Clanricarde
 proposed an amendment, enabling the Lord Mayor elect of Dublin to fill the office of President of the Court of Conscience for one year.The Earl of Haddington
 opposed it, on the ground that the gentleman who was Lord Mayor elect had once already filled the offices of Lord Mayor and President of the Court of Conscience, and had gone out of his way to fill the latter situation again, knowing that this bill was sure to pass into law.The Marquess of Normanby
 rose for the purpose of proposing an amendment relative to the interests of the Protestant Church in the advowsons of livings in the gift of the Irish corporations. He had been told that the amendment which he was about to propose was a money clause, and therefore an interference with the privileges of the other House of Parliament. If it were so, he would not press his amendment to a division. He intended to propose that when these advowsons should be sold, the proceeds, instead of being paid into the hands of the treasurer of the borough to which they belonged, should be paid into the hands of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, to be by them expended for the purpose of building a church or churches in that borough, or for such other religious purposes as the Ecclesiastical Commissioners might think necessary within the limits of the borough. Their lordships must be aware, that as the bill now stood they were giving away funds from the Church of Ireland to corporations which would prove its deadly enemy.The Bishop of Exeter
 said, that after the peremptory declaration of the noble Duke, which he had no doubt was made after due deliberation, he should withdraw his amendment.The Bishop of Exeter
1175 said, that it was
1175The Bishop of Exeter
1173 would only say in answer to the question as to where the complaint was made, that it was a complaint not made now for the first time,
1173The Marquess of Normanby
1171 had heard with some surprise from his noble Friend opposite, that there was a difference between the Recorder of Cork and the Recorder of Dublin. He believed, that the words which his noble Friend used were, that the office of Recorder of Cork was not an office of great magnitude, and it was exactly because the office of Recorder of the city of Dublin was one of great magnitude, that he thought that the Recorder ought to render efficient services to the population of that city. The recorder of Dublin had a very large salary assigned to him, and he ought to discharge his duties in a way not inferior to the manner in which they were executed by the recorders of other large towns. He said nothing
1171The Marquess of Lansdowne
 wished to say, in explanation, that this was not the first time on which this provision had been introduced into the Irish Municipal Bill, but that, on the contrary, it had been introduced into every bill but one. He wished also to state, that he did not say that no complaints had been made in Ireland against the Recorder of Dublin. He had stated, that no complaints whatever had been made against the great talents and integrity of that learned gentleman, but there was a complaint made that the gaols were not delivered. [Lord Lyndhurst: By whom]? I make it. It is in this paper. I ask the noble and learned Lord whether he does not think there is cause for complaint when 212 prisoners, 90 of whom are females, are left untried? I state most solemnly on my part that I have no party feeling to gratify in this matter, but I think that whether the Recorder of Dublin be Whig, Tory, or Radical, the Lord-lieutenant ought to be able to make arrangements to make him do his duty.The Marquess of Lansdowne
 objected to proceeding with that measure at so late a period of the Session, when there was not time to investigate it. He was, therefore, disposed to move an amendment, that the committee be deferred to this day three months.The Earl of Charleville
 stated, that the bill was founded on the memorials and statements of several of the Irish counties.Viscount Duncannon
 having moved that the House go into committee on the Court Houses (Ireland) Bill,Viscount Duncannon
1170 regretted that he
1170Viscount Duncannon
 asked if it was intended that in all towns which had a large population the recorder should sit every week? Was it so in London; and if not, although the population was much larger, why should it be necessary in Dublin?Lord Wharncliffe
ex parte,1169 had two or three amendments to propose, to which he begged to call the attention of their Lordships. The first of these was that which related to the Recorder of Dublin. An alteration had been made in the bill in committee, but he believed that their lordships were not aware of all the circumstances under which that alteration had been made. He therefore proposed to strike out of the 161st clause these words, "or as the Lord-lieutenant shall from time to time think fit to direct." Three years ago an agreement had been made between the Recorder of Dublin and the law officers of the Crown, meaning by them the law officers of the Crown in Ireland, by which it was stipulated that no alteration should be made in the office of the Recorder of Dublin. The law officers of the Crown, however, had since been changed, and it was said that with new men came new measures, and in consequence an alteration had taken place in the bill of the present year. Now, if the object of that alteration was to exclude the present Recorder of Dublin from Parliament, that object should be carried into effect by a direct clause, and not by a side-wind, which it was the object of the present bill to accomplish. It had been said, "why should not the Recorder of Dublin be placed on the same footing as other recorders?" Why, for this plain reason, because the office which he held was different in its nature from that filled by other recorders in Ireland. The office of the Recorder of Dublin was an ancient office. He held a Court of Oyer and Terminer and Gaol Delivery for all crimes except that of high treason. He also held a court for the trial of civil causes of which he had cognizance to any amount. Their Lordships would find also that his office was regulated, not only by charter, but by Act of Parliament. The Recorder of Dublin held a session eight times a-year, which he was obliged to do by Act of Parliament, so that he held a court every six weeks. Did he perform his duty and carry into effect the provisions of the Act of Parliament? He did more, he held a court for the trial of criminals twelve times a-year. He also held a court four times a-year for the purpose of discharging persons who were out on bail. Further, he held sessions four times a-year for the purpose of hearing appeals. He also held a court four times a-year for
ex parte,1169Lord Lyndhurst
1164 perfectly concurred in what his noble and learned Friend had said, and he approved of the present bill; but he was not very sanguine as to the course which it might meet with elsewhere. He must say, he deeply regretted the failure of that bill in the other House, after the care which had been bestowed upon it by their Lordships. He was sure that the public, and the profession, and, above all, the suitors, would have derived the greatest benefit from that measure. For
1164Lord Lyndhurst
1172 said, that after the lapse of several years it had at last been discovered that the recorder, who was an officer, proved to their Lordships to hold his court twenty-eight times in the course of a year, and to have been most effective, most zealous, and most able, in performing his duties, and against whom no complaint whatever had been made, ought to be excluded from Parliament. The question for their Lordships to decide was, whether the Recorder of Dublin, only because he was a Member of Parliament, and had not exactly pursued the course which was agreeable to certain persons, should for that reason be excluded from his situation in Parliament, and branded as a criminal, in order to satisfy a particular party. "Come
1172The Duke of Wellington
 said, that it had always been the study of their Lordships to avoid interference with the privileges of the other House of Parliament. Now this amendment was a decided interference with those privileges, and as such he must oppose it.The Duke of Wellington
 thinking as he did, that every part of the bill was essential to the public interest, regretted it had not passed the other House. As regarded the fate of the present bill, he confessed be was not so sanguine as his noble and learned Friend, seeing the determined opposition that was given to the other bill.The Lord Chancellor
1195: My Lords, I beg leave to express my approbation of this bill, and my hope that it may pass into a law during the present Session. If this bill had, as was intended, formed part of the bill for facilitating the administration of justice which lately passed this House—and if it had been followed by the bill for the regulation of the Chancery offices, which my noble and learned Friend on the woolsack has promised to introduce in the next Session—it might have been hoped, that the powers which this bill proposes to confer on the judges of the Court of Chancery, would have produced very extensive benefit. I am afraid, that without the increase of judicial power which was intended by the late bill, and without the power to regulate offices held by persons who have vested interests and to give compensation, the good to be effected by this bill will not be very great—but still it will enable the judges to do some useful things which they cannot now effectuate, and that alone is with me a sufficient reason for supporting the bill. But I confess, that my principal reason for wishing the bill to pass now, arises from what is to me the unintelligible withdrawal of the bill for facilitating the administration of justice from, the other House of Parliament. The urgent nature of that bill had been acknowledged by all; and the circumstances under which it passed this House, were, (considering the subject), not a little remarkable—there was an entire abandonment not
1195Lord Langdale
 said, he should very much like to know what the noble Viscount's intentions were with respect to this subject.Lord Lyndhurst
1196 lamented as deeply as any noble Lord, that the bill which had been sent down to the Commons was not passed in the present Session. He fully admitted the urgency of the case, and that it was desirable to provide a remedy for the evils which that bill was intended to meet. The simple reason why the measure was not proceeded with this Session was, because it would undoubtedly have led to a greater extent of discussion than was convenient, or, in fact, than they would have been able to get through at this late period of the Session. Unquestionably, there did prevail great difference of opinion on the question, which would have been debated with all
1196Viscount Melbourne
 expressed his belief, that if the noble Viscount had pressed the measure, no opposition whatever would have been offered to it. The rumour was, that the bill had been stopped by the law officers of the Crown, and some claims that had been made on Ministers. He knew from personal communication, that there was no intention on the part of any one to oppose the bill.Lord Lyndhurst
1197No, no said, there seemed to be a misunderstanding with respect to what had taken place on this subject. The bill which had gone down from their Lordships' House was not withdrawn. It was proposed, that it should be read a second time on the 31st of August. If, therefore, Parliament was prorogued before that day, it could not be read a second time. That being the case, their Lordships might now send down this, the second bill. If a disposition existed to agree to a measure for the better administration of justice (and where there was a will there was a way)—if both sides were anxious to take that course, what was to prevent the other House from ingrafting on the present bill the provisions of the original bill, which now stood for a second reading on the 3lst of August? Thus that which was said to be the object of all parties, might, if they were sincere, be easily effected. His noble Friend at the head of the Government said, the rumours to which his noble and learned Friend referred were utterly without foundation ["1197No, noLord Brougham
nil12121211"That no evidence has appeared upon this investigation to inculpate Michael Wheelan, the person summoned, or to satisfy our minds that the document found in his house was fabricated or not; and that no evidence has been adduced to prove that any connexion whatever exists between the Riband and Temperance Societies.""That no evidence has appeared before us to induce us to form an opinion that the warrant found in Wheelan's house was a fabrication."Limerick Standard1210"The Lord-lieutenant considers that the exercise of magisterial authority without due regard for the letter of the law and the spirit of the constitution is not calculated to pro-
1210Charleville1209Charleville had listened with the greatest attention to the noble Earl's speech for the last hour and three quarters, but he sincerely assured their Lordships that he could not, with all the attention which he could command, find that the speech of the noble Earl pointed to any one single object. He had expected that some grave charge would have been brought against his noble Friend at the head of the government of Ireland, or that the noble Earl would have shown that some imperious necessity existed under the circumstances of the time for the prompt interposition of Parliament, and he certainly did not look for the noble Earl's taking up the time of their Lordships with trivial business, and with details of squabbles between Mr. Jackson, a sub-inspector of constabulary, and other persons, as to whether he was or was not invited to dinner. He must say that these were not things which they ever heard of in England, nor was the time of their Lordships ever engaged in listening to accounts of petty squabbles in petty sessions. Six weeks ago, the noble Earl might have called the attention of their Lordships to the disturbed state of that part of the country, supposing him to have satisfied himself that the Government was not inclined to take proper steps to vindicate the law. But the assizes had since been held; the Government had taken proper steps to assert the supremacy of the law, and out of this district no fewer than eleven persons had been brought to justice by the activity of the police, and the energy of the Government, and had been sentenced to transportation. [The Earl of nil12121211"That no evidence has appeared upon this investigation to inculpate Michael Wheelan, the person summoned, or to satisfy our minds that the document found in his house was fabricated or not; and that no evidence has been adduced to prove that any connexion whatever exists between the Riband and Temperance Societies.""That no evidence has appeared before us to induce us to form an opinion that the warrant found in Wheelan's house was a fabrication."Limerick Standard1210"The Lord-lieutenant considers that the exercise of magisterial authority without due regard for the letter of the law and the spirit of the constitution is not calculated to pro-
1210Charleville1209CharlevilleThe Marquess of Normanby
12141213 could not quite agree with the noble Marquess in considering, that he had any great reason to congratulate himself or the House on the result of the assizes lately held in the county of Limerick, because eleven persons had been brought to justice for Whiteboy offences. Pallaskenry and two other districts had been extremely disturbed, and a vast variety of outrages had been committed within them. He himself had, at a former period of the Session, read a frightful list of them to their Lordships, and the noble Earl who opened this debate had also read a tremendous list of them. Among them were twenty-five cases of attacks on houses, made to procure arms. With respect to a point urged by the noble Marquess in palliation of those offences—namely, that the people were starving—he admitted that great distress and scarcity of provisions existed, but what that had to do with breaking open houses for arms he was utterly at a loss to know. Breaking open the houses for that purpose had nothing whatever to do with starvation; it was for the purpose of plunder and intimidation, and to become possessed of arms which could be used for unlawful ends. He was very glad indeed that the noble Earl had brought forward this motion, and he thought the magistracy of Ireland would be extremely obliged to him for taking up the case of a gentleman who, to say the least of it, had been most harshly, he might say, most unjustly and cruelly, treated. What was the conduct for which Mr. Langford, the gentleman to whom he alluded, had been
12141213The Earl of Glengall
1215 concurred with the most rev. Prelate that this would be the most convenient course to adopt for the better consideration of the details of the bill. It was certainly not the intention of himself, or his right rev. Friends, to interpose any unnecessary delay in the passing of the bill, but he wished it to be distinctly understood that he should not
1215The Bishop of Winchester
12081207"That he never took an Information without fearing that the man who gave the information was likely to suffer before the person against whom the information was given.""T. DRUMMOND.""Sir, I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 13th inst. enclosing an information with regard to concealed arms, which I have laid before the Crown counsel, who inquires if the persons named in the Information have registered the arms alluded to? If not, that fact should be stated in the Information. The Information should also state some ground for his belief as to the arms being in possession of the parties named; and the Crown council would not advise that an Information, not containing such statements should be acted on. I have the honor, &c."Dublin Castle, Jan. 20, 1840.12061205"Upon an attentive consideration of the evidence taken on the late inquiry at Pallaskenry, and of the several documents connected with it, and with other recent transactions in that district, the Lord-lieutenant regrets to observe that a magistrate, to whom the thanks of a public meeting were voted on the 15th of May, appears to have exercised arbitrary powers not warranted by law, and subversive of the just rights of the subject. First, by making a search for arms in April, 1840 under the authority of a warrant granted in March, 1839, contrary to the intention of the statute under which those warrants are granted, and to the whole spirit of British legislation respecting general warrants. If in your opinion such powers were called for on the late occasion, you ought to have asked for them afresh in the usual manner, stating your reasons for considering them necessary.12041203"In reference to your letter of the 20th inst., informing me that it was his Excellency's desire that I should attend the inquiry directed to take place at Pallaskenry, relative to the documents found in the house of John Wheelan, of Kildimo, I think it my duty to acquaint you, for his Excellency's information, that considerable excitement and expectation prevail in consequence of the approaching inquiry, and the charges and assertions of Mr. Langford, at the meeting of some magistrates, &c, at Pallaskenry, on the 14th inst.; and to suggest to his Excellency's consideration whether it would not be advisable to extend the inquiry to the finding of the blunderbuss, &c, by Mr. Langford on the night previous to the meeting above referred to. I have been informed that the Temperance Society intend having the aid of the legal profession at the inquiry, and I would apprehend the introduction of irrelevant discussion and examination to probe Mr.
120312021201"But if you think it necessary that a new warrant should be issued, the proper course will be to transmit the usual application, according to the provisions of the Arms Act, 50 of George 3rd, c. 109, s. 2. With regard to the documents found on searching Michael Wheelan's house, I am to request that you will state whether you have taken any, and what, proceedings against him.""It appears by a report from Sub-Inspector Jackson, that by your directions a search for arras was made under your warrant, and a gun and a shot-pouch taken from the rear of Michael Madigan's house. In reference to this search, I am instructed by the Crown counsel to inform you that the warrant now in your possession will not justify your searching for arms at so long an interval from its date."120011991198 said, that in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, he must throw himself on the lenient indulgence of their Lordships. Nothing could have induced him to bring forward the subject if he had believed the case to which he was about to refer was one merely of individual wrong, or was confined to that particular locality of Ireland to which he should presently allude. He believed, on the contrary, that the case had a general effect on the peace, security, and tranquillity of a great part of that country, if not the whole of it; and he should not have been satisfied of having discharged his duty, if he had shrunk from the performance of it, by not calling the attention of their Lordships to this subject. On more than one occasion during this Session of Parliament he had felt it to be his duty to call the attention of their Lordships to the disturbed state of the county of Limerick; and, to prevent any misunderstanding on the part of any noble Lord, he wished now to define the limits of the district which was so disturbed. It was from the Hill of Kilbreedy, which was the centre of the barony of Kenry, to an extent of about six or seven Irish miles around it. The disturbances which took place in that district had been increasing for the last eighteen months, until they had reached a most unparalleled extent. In 1838 in that particular district there were four attacks on houses for the purpose of robbery of arms. In 1839, to the month of September, there were fifteen attacks on houses for the same purpose. From September last year to the 1st of April in the present year, there were twenty-two similar attacks on houses; and from the 1st of April last up to the present time there had been twenty-five other cases of the same kind reported to him. But that was one species of crime only, independent of all others—such as shooting with intent to kill; threatening to do bodily harm; shooting at horses; cropping of horses; and the serving of Rockite notices, all of which were to be added to
12081207"That he never took an Information without fearing that the man who gave the information was likely to suffer before the person against whom the information was given.""T. DRUMMOND.""Sir, I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 13th inst. enclosing an information with regard to concealed arms, which I have laid before the Crown counsel, who inquires if the persons named in the Information have registered the arms alluded to? If not, that fact should be stated in the Information. The Information should also state some ground for his belief as to the arms being in possession of the parties named; and the Crown council would not advise that an Information, not containing such statements should be acted on. I have the honor, &c."Dublin Castle, Jan. 20, 1840.12061205"Upon an attentive consideration of the evidence taken on the late inquiry at Pallaskenry, and of the several documents connected with it, and with other recent transactions in that district, the Lord-lieutenant regrets to observe that a magistrate, to whom the thanks of a public meeting were voted on the 15th of May, appears to have exercised arbitrary powers not warranted by law, and subversive of the just rights of the subject. First, by making a search for arms in April, 1840 under the authority of a warrant granted in March, 1839, contrary to the intention of the statute under which those warrants are granted, and to the whole spirit of British legislation respecting general warrants. If in your opinion such powers were called for on the late occasion, you ought to have asked for them afresh in the usual manner, stating your reasons for considering them necessary.12041203"In reference to your letter of the 20th inst., informing me that it was his Excellency's desire that I should attend the inquiry directed to take place at Pallaskenry, relative to the documents found in the house of John Wheelan, of Kildimo, I think it my duty to acquaint you, for his Excellency's information, that considerable excitement and expectation prevail in consequence of the approaching inquiry, and the charges and assertions of Mr. Langford, at the meeting of some magistrates, &c, at Pallaskenry, on the 14th inst.; and to suggest to his Excellency's consideration whether it would not be advisable to extend the inquiry to the finding of the blunderbuss, &c, by Mr. Langford on the night previous to the meeting above referred to. I have been informed that the Temperance Society intend having the aid of the legal profession at the inquiry, and I would apprehend the introduction of irrelevant discussion and examination to probe Mr.
120312021201"But if you think it necessary that a new warrant should be issued, the proper course will be to transmit the usual application, according to the provisions of the Arms Act, 50 of George 3rd, c. 109, s. 2. With regard to the documents found on searching Michael Wheelan's house, I am to request that you will state whether you have taken any, and what, proceedings against him.""It appears by a report from Sub-Inspector Jackson, that by your directions a search for arras was made under your warrant, and a gun and a shot-pouch taken from the rear of Michael Madigan's house. In reference to this search, I am instructed by the Crown counsel to inform you that the warrant now in your possession will not justify your searching for arms at so long an interval from its date."120011991198The Earl of Charleville
"That your petitioners are most strongly of opinion that the discharge of the said Abel Heywood under the circumstances aforesaid, the said Abel Heywood having been a notorious vendor of such publications as aforesaid, and being a member of the said society of Socialists, was naturally calculated to encourage the principles of the said society, and particularly such sentiments as are contained in the said blasphemous and obscene publications, and to induce a general belief, especially in the minds of those persons whose welfare is more immediately endangered by the propagation of infidel opinions, that her Majesty's Government were perfectly indifferent as to the maintenance of the interests of religion and good order; or were, at all events, unwilling to put into operation those laws for the repression of blasphemy and vice which are confided to their administration; and that a still greater danger has ensued, lest the lower classes of society should be led to imagine that political influence will induce her Majesty's Government to dispense with the punishment of the most flagrant and most scandalous offences. That your petitioners, although unwilling to express their own concurrence in the conclusions which they conscientiously believe will be formed, from the facts before stated, by the mass of the people, feel nevertheless bound to express their deep regret at the conduct pursued by her Majesty's Government—conduct which, as they conceive, has tended to throw discredit upon the laws of the land, rather than upon the crimes which those laws were intended to repress. Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that your Lordships' lion. House will be pleased to institute an inquiry into the facts before stated, and also into the circumstances under which her Majesty's Government were induced to forego the passing of any sentence upon the said Abel Heywood, and to give to your petitioners such further or other relief in the premises as to your Lordships' hon. House shall seem meet."12281227primâ facie"That, having learned early in the month of February last that certain printed papers, and, amongst others, certain printed papers it that time published by the deponent in the way of his trade, were deemed improper, offensive, and illegal, by persons of eminence in church and state, and more especially by the right rev. the Lord Bishop of Exeter, the deponent did thereupon immediately give orders to the persons by him employed in his said trade not to publish or sell any more of the said printed papers so deemed to be improper, offensive, and illegal as aforesaid; and that the deponent did not himself, publish or sell any of such printed papers; and that he did verily believe that the said persons by him employed in his said trade did not publish or sell any of the said printed papers after the deponent had learned, as aforesaid, that the said printed papers were so deemed improper offensive and illegal."1226"What wretched stuff this Bible is, to be sure! What a random idiot its author must have been! I would advise the human race to burn every Bible they have got. Such a book is actually a disgrace to ourang-outangs, much less to men! I would advise them to burn it, in order that posterity may never know we believed in such abominable trash. What must they think of our intellects? What must they think of our incredible foolery? And we not only believe it, but we actually look upon the book as the sacred word of God, as a production of infinite wisdom! Was insanity ever more complete? I, for one, however, renounce the book. I renounce it as a vile compound of filth, blasphemy, and nonsense; as a fraud and cheat; and as an insult to God."1225 seeing the noble Marquess the Secretary for the Home Department in his place, rose to present a petition which appeared to him to be of great importance, as it deeply concerned the preservation of the morality of the country and the due and impartial administration of the law. In the outset he would not disguise from their Lordships that the petition contained grave charges of criminality against the noble Secretary of State, and he hoped that the noble Secretary would be able to explain the facts alleged against him in such a manner as would be satisfactory to their Lordships and to the country. It would be in the recollection of their Lordships, that in the commencement of the present Session, he had troubled the House with certain statements relative to the progress of that horrid system called "Socialism." The consequence of what occurred in that House on the subject was, that in many of the large towns through-
"That your petitioners are most strongly of opinion that the discharge of the said Abel Heywood under the circumstances aforesaid, the said Abel Heywood having been a notorious vendor of such publications as aforesaid, and being a member of the said society of Socialists, was naturally calculated to encourage the principles of the said society, and particularly such sentiments as are contained in the said blasphemous and obscene publications, and to induce a general belief, especially in the minds of those persons whose welfare is more immediately endangered by the propagation of infidel opinions, that her Majesty's Government were perfectly indifferent as to the maintenance of the interests of religion and good order; or were, at all events, unwilling to put into operation those laws for the repression of blasphemy and vice which are confided to their administration; and that a still greater danger has ensued, lest the lower classes of society should be led to imagine that political influence will induce her Majesty's Government to dispense with the punishment of the most flagrant and most scandalous offences. That your petitioners, although unwilling to express their own concurrence in the conclusions which they conscientiously believe will be formed, from the facts before stated, by the mass of the people, feel nevertheless bound to express their deep regret at the conduct pursued by her Majesty's Government—conduct which, as they conceive, has tended to throw discredit upon the laws of the land, rather than upon the crimes which those laws were intended to repress. Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that your Lordships' lion. House will be pleased to institute an inquiry into the facts before stated, and also into the circumstances under which her Majesty's Government were induced to forego the passing of any sentence upon the said Abel Heywood, and to give to your petitioners such further or other relief in the premises as to your Lordships' hon. House shall seem meet."12281227primâ facie"That, having learned early in the month of February last that certain printed papers, and, amongst others, certain printed papers it that time published by the deponent in the way of his trade, were deemed improper, offensive, and illegal, by persons of eminence in church and state, and more especially by the right rev. the Lord Bishop of Exeter, the deponent did thereupon immediately give orders to the persons by him employed in his said trade not to publish or sell any more of the said printed papers so deemed to be improper, offensive, and illegal as aforesaid; and that the deponent did not himself, publish or sell any of such printed papers; and that he did verily believe that the said persons by him employed in his said trade did not publish or sell any of the said printed papers after the deponent had learned, as aforesaid, that the said printed papers were so deemed improper offensive and illegal."1226"What wretched stuff this Bible is, to be sure! What a random idiot its author must have been! I would advise the human race to burn every Bible they have got. Such a book is actually a disgrace to ourang-outangs, much less to men! I would advise them to burn it, in order that posterity may never know we believed in such abominable trash. What must they think of our intellects? What must they think of our incredible foolery? And we not only believe it, but we actually look upon the book as the sacred word of God, as a production of infinite wisdom! Was insanity ever more complete? I, for one, however, renounce the book. I renounce it as a vile compound of filth, blasphemy, and nonsense; as a fraud and cheat; and as an insult to God."1225The Bishop of Exeter
12321231"That I am a general publisher and wholesale bookseller, not confined to any particular class of books, but that I do sell every description of books, and that I have published, sold, and circulated five different pamphlets written in opposition to, and condemnatory of the language made use of in ' Haslam's letters.' I solemnly declare that I was not. aware of the libel complained of in this pamphlet, until the evening on which I was arrested, and that I have not, since the circular issued by the Secretary of State for the Home Department, sold a copy of ' Haslam's Letters,' but I have done all that I could to put a stop to their circulation, and have induced the author to destroy the whole stock on hand, to prevent the further circulation, although the author had bought types, a press, &c, to publish the work himself."1230"A prosecution had been instituted against him for having published Haslam's letters to the clergy of all denominations, which he had afterwards discovered to Contain a blasphemous libel, and that he had been tried at the last Midsummer sessions for the publication of that blasphemous libel."1229 said, that as their Lordships might well suppose, he
12321231"That I am a general publisher and wholesale bookseller, not confined to any particular class of books, but that I do sell every description of books, and that I have published, sold, and circulated five different pamphlets written in opposition to, and condemnatory of the language made use of in ' Haslam's letters.' I solemnly declare that I was not. aware of the libel complained of in this pamphlet, until the evening on which I was arrested, and that I have not, since the circular issued by the Secretary of State for the Home Department, sold a copy of ' Haslam's Letters,' but I have done all that I could to put a stop to their circulation, and have induced the author to destroy the whole stock on hand, to prevent the further circulation, although the author had bought types, a press, &c, to publish the work himself."1230"A prosecution had been instituted against him for having published Haslam's letters to the clergy of all denominations, which he had afterwards discovered to Contain a blasphemous libel, and that he had been tried at the last Midsummer sessions for the publication of that blasphemous libel."1229The Marquess of Normanby
123612351234Clarke's Critical Review"Manchester, March 24. John M'Dowall, of No. 40 Cotton-street, Manchester, weaver, states that he called at the shop of Abel Heywood, bookseller and publisher, 60 Oldham-street, Manchester, on Saturday evening, the 21st of March, about half-past seven o'clock, and asked for Nos. 1 and 2 of Clarke's Critical Review had only said, that under the circumstances of the case, the effect of the Members for Manchester and the Member for Stockport going to the Secretary of State was to say to him—not in words, but in a manner stronger than by words—"We are three." He had never charged those gentlemen with using any such expression. With regard to the language which the noble Marquess had been pleased to use, he had no intention of retaliating; he entertained no contempt for the noble Marquess; he entertained contempt for no one, and therefore not for the noble Marquess. There were, however, two or three things in the noble Marquess's speech of which he felt bound to take notice. The noble Marquess said he had been informed, upon good authority, that Mr. Heywood was not habitually a vendor of blasphemous publications. Now, whoever told the noble Marquess that, told him what the noble Marquess had in his own possession the most ample means of contradicting. He would read to their Lordships one of the statements in the possession of the noble Marquess:—
123612351234Clarke's Critical Review"Manchester, March 24. John M'Dowall, of No. 40 Cotton-street, Manchester, weaver, states that he called at the shop of Abel Heywood, bookseller and publisher, 60 Oldham-street, Manchester, on Saturday evening, the 21st of March, about half-past seven o'clock, and asked for Nos. 1 and 2 of Clarke's Critical ReviewThe Bishop of Exeter
 only rose to notice that part of the right rev. prelate's speech in which the right rev. prelate stated that he had in his possession proofs of the guilt of Mr. Heywood. He could only say, that he had received a large packet of papers, which he had referred to the law officers of the Crown, and had not seen since. The result of the single proceeding which was now brought under their Lordships' notice, would not affect the course which the law officers of the Crown might think proper to adopt with respect to the other publications.The Marquess of Normanby
 regretted that the whole correspondence between the Board of Trade and the Warden of the Cinque Ports on this subject had not been laid on the table of the House, as it would show the grounds on which the system now proposed was founded. The privilege to which his noble Friend had alluded, was one that had become an abuse, as the pilots were deprived of their business of pilotage. All he desired was, that justice should be done to that class of men, who, he would answer for it, did their duty, and who were put to great expense in order to enable them to perform that duty. He certainly preferred the first scheme that was proposed by the Board of Trade; but he would not oppose the second reading of the bill.The Duke of Wellington
1238 said, that the bill directed the investment annually of the funds arising from the sale of the clergy reserves. It appeared to him that the sum so arising, and so to be invested in the public securities of the colony, would bear a very large proportion to the debt of Canada, and its periodical investment as a part of that debt would have the effect of a very large sinking fund, the tendency of which must obviously be to increase the value of public securities. But eventually the time must come when those investments would cease, and it was not impossible that the interest on them might cease to be payable, the necessary consequence of which would be to leave the clergy without any provision. No prudent person would regard an investment in these funds as a secure provision
1238Lord Ellenborough
 observed, that the amendment which he proposed only amounted to the insertion of a permissive clause, and he took upon himself to say that their Lordships might do anything that they thought necessary relating to the taxation of the province, without at all interfering with the privileges of the other House.Lord Ellenborough
1241l.l.l.l.1240 said, their Lordships must have heard with great satisfaction from the noble Lord (Seaton), that the effect of this bill would be to tranquillize the agitation which had so long pervaded that country, with which the noble Lord was so well acquainted, with respect to the distribution of the Canada Clergy Reserves. It was that feeling which had induced him to accede to the bill, believing that there was little or no chance of those jealousies and animosities which prevailed in Upper Canada being healed and subdued until this question of the clergy reserves should be settled. But their Lordships would have heard with the utmost concern the other part of the noble Lord's statement, with which he (the Archbishop of Canterbury) was already fully acquainted from the various corresponding accounts he had received from every person having a knowledge of that province, and taking the deepest concern in its religious welfare—namely, the state of spiritual destitution in which that province was plunged, and which almost exceeded belief. From accounts given by missionaries, who had travelled through the several parts of the province, it appeared that they found whole masses of the population, equal to ordinary parishes in England, who had not seen a minister of the gospel more than once in a year, and some had not seen one more than once for two or three years, while in other parts of the country the people had not had the benefit of any religious instruction for twelve or fourteen years together, and were left literally in a state of heathenism. Their Lordships would also regret very much, that no better provision had been
1241l.l.l.l.1240The Archbishop of Canterbury
"To satisfy all such annual stipends and allowances as had been heretofore assigned and given to the clergy of the Churches of England and Scotland, or to any other religious bodies or denominations of Christians in Upper Canada, and to which the faith of the Crown is pledged." wished to know from the noble Viscount what was to be understood from that part of the clause which provided that the proceeds of the clergy reserves should go
"To satisfy all such annual stipends and allowances as had been heretofore assigned and given to the clergy of the Churches of England and Scotland, or to any other religious bodies or denominations of Christians in Upper Canada, and to which the faith of the Crown is pledged."The Bishop of Exeter
,—My Lords, I solemnly conjure you not to concede that. I implore you not to agree to that proposition.Lord Ellenborough
1242 begged the noble Baron's pardon, but he had not yet done. Their Lordships would do well to remember, that they were now disposing of a fund given by an act of Parliament in order to carry into effect the pious intention of George 3rd—the permanent maintenance and support of the Protestant clergy. True, doubts had arisen upon the meaning of the phrase "Protestant clergy." But did their Lordships ever hear a doubt that those words excluded the Roman Catholic clergy? Well then, he besought them not to pass the clause
1242The Bishop of Exeter
 did not know what service the noble Marquess might have it in his power to do the country during the recess, but he knew that he could not do the country a greater disservice than by passing temporary acts of Parliament.Lord Ellenborough
 admitted the correctness of that observation as a general principle, but, as he was obliged to withdraw the present bill, he thought the introduction of a temporary measure justifiable.The Marquess of Normanby
1248 said, the noble Lord had stated it as a reason for agreeing to this bill, that several other bills of the same character had been passed. He (the Duke of Wellington) entreated their Lordships to pause, and recollect, that the foundation of all justice was truth, and that the mode of discovering truth had always been to administer an oath, in order that the witness might give his deposition under a high sanction. He hoped their Lordships would not proceed to adopt another of those bills which had been before their Lordships only a few days, and which was, in truth, nothing more than a way of enabling a witness, who thought proper to say he had conscientious scruples, to escape the solemnity of an oath. He admitted, that the inconvenience which the present state of the law produced fell rather on the community in general than the individuals, but, at the same time, he thought that by every one of those relaxations they shook the foundations of justice. This bill ought to be brought before them at a period of the Session when they could ascertain the opinions of more of the learned Members of that House than were now at hand, and also the opinion of the learned judges, if their Lordships would think it necessary to call for them. The bill, indeed, hardly went far enough, for if the principle were just, why not dispense with the previous examination altogether? But he would suggest that in any future bill it would be right to have some testimony as
1248The Duke of Wellington
 said, that the very provision required by his noble Friend opposite was to be found in this bill. The party who had scruples against taking an oath was required to go before a magistrate, and in case the justice were satisfied, on the testimony of one or wore credible witnesses, that he was a person of good character and a believer in the Christian religion, and conscientiously believed the taking of oaths to be unlawful, then he was to grant a certificate to that effect. There were some parts of the bill of which he did not altogether approve. He objected to any thing in the nature of a test, and he agreed with his noble Friend opposite, that it would be better to have the bill more extensive, and to place the recusants in general on the footing of the Quakers, Moravians, and others, dispensing with the previous examination. Heartily agreeing, however, in the principle of the measure, he should give his vote for the second reading. He was as much averse as any man could be to diminish the sanctity of the obligation to truth, on which all the administration of justice depended; but he thought this bill would leave it all the security which human institutions could confer. The experience of those who were best acquainted with courts of justice did not tend to show that those who took affirmations were less careful or scrupulous as to what they swore, or swore in a less trustworthy way, than those of their fellow citizens who continued to take oaths.Lord Brougham
1250verbatim et literatimex parte1249 had a great aversion to this bill. The question was, whether they should allow any person who chose to say he had a conscientious scruple to taking an oath to dispose of the lives and fortunes of his fellow-subjects without the sanction of that obligation. He was not at all disposed to adopt the principle without going into a minute inquiry as to the inconveniences of the law as it at present stood. The noble Lord who moved the bill said it was full of securities against the abuse of the principle. Any person at all acquainted with the administration of justice, would see that the pretended securities were a mere mockery. The man who objected to the oath was to go before a magis-
1250verbatim et literatimex parte1249Lord Lyndhurst
: Although he never said, that Mr. Baron Alderson drew this bill, he certainly considered, that it might have been drawn by any judge, without impeachment to his learning or accuracy. As to the "&c." what was it? Nothing at all. It simply meant in the bill, "I affirm and declare as is here set forth," or "as follows." It was common enough in other Acts, as for instance, "justices sitting for, &c." meant "justices sitting for such a town or county." The only other observation of his noble and learned Friend worthy of notice was, that as to the person who objected to take an oath calling on another person to take one for him, which certainly had, at first sight, some plausibility. But why should not the objector call upon another man to take the oath, if that man did not share in its conscientious scruples, and had no repugnance to do so?Lord Brougham
 objected to introduce into the practice of our criminal proceedings evidence not on oath, unless under peculiar circumstances indeed, and in cases established after a full and deliberate inquiry. His own experience had taught him, that men would refuse to swear a falsehood which they would affirm over and over again. In those cases where relief had been afforded the class of persons were known, and a test could be applied to their religious opinions. In this case the door was opened wider, without evidence to show the necessity for it. He was always ready to bear his testimony to the scrupulous correctness of Quakers in giving their testimony; but still the principle of our criminal law was to require an oath.The Earl of Devon
1251 said, his noble Friend must recollect, that they had the authority of the Legislature in favour of the bill. The Legislature had passed former bills of this kind. If the object were the discovery of truth, and if it were said, that an oath was an aid to the discovery, he (Lord Monteagle) said, that an oath against conscience was an impediment to the discovery of truth. If it were otherwise, the Legislature had done wrong, for it had abolished hundreds of thousands of oaths
1251Lord Monteagle
 objected to the further progress of the bill, though he was aware, that he should expose himself to the fire of the great law guns in this House. The noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack had treated the opinion of the faculty of advocates very lightly; but he (Lord Haddington) had made inquiry and had found, that they had considered the report of the committee which had been rejected, only three of the learned body having voted for it. The noble Earl then went into some details respecting the law of evidence in Scotland. He proposed to the noble and learned Lord, that he should drop this bill during the present Session, and bring in another bill on this subject next Session after a full and due inquiry into it. If the noble and learned Lord would not agree to that proposition, he would move, that this bill be read a third time that day six months.The Earl of Haddington
1252 begged to
1252The Marquess of Salisbury
 thought it advisable, that there should be a board of inspection, but was of opinion that there was an important omission in the 5th clause, by which the board was to be constituted. He thought, that the operation of the clause should be made retrospective, and that persons having held any office of emolument connected with any railway for the space of one year previously should be made ineligible.Lord Wharncliffe
 thought, that it would be better to leave the responsibility in the hands of the Board of Trade.The Earl of Clarendon
 said, that by the 16th clause it was provided, that if any person was found trespassing upon a railway, or if any person impeded any of the officers, that officer should have the power of taking the person offending into custody and detaining him. That he thought was an extent of power with which these railway officers ought not to be intrusted. He could not think, that it was right to give an unlimited power of detaining offenders.The Marquess of Salisbury
 said, the officer must of necessity detain the offender till he could be taken before a magistrate.The Earl of Clarendon
1253 had often turned his attention to this subject, and be was glad that at last something was to be done. He had formerly proposed the insertion of clauses in the different railway bills which had passed the House, placing those undertakings under the control of the Government, but the course which he had proposed had not been adopted, and, in fact, the Government had done nothing in the matter. The consequence had been, that those railway companies had got a monopoly of the whole carriage along the different lines, and he was therefore happy to see, that at last a measure was proposed taking the management of those concerns into the hands of the Government. This measure, however, did not in his opinion go far enough. By the bill the Government would have the power of inspecting the rules and regulations of the different companies, but those rules and regula-
1253The Duke of Wellington
 said, it had been proved before a committee of the House of Commons, that the railway companies had obtained a complete monopoly, and that the interference of Parliament was now absolutely necessary. A compromise however, had been made, and it had been agreed that this bill should be considered only as an experimental measure. There was, however, a clear understanding, that if the powers granted by this bill were found insufficient by the Board of Trade, further powers should at once be asked for.The Earl of Clarendon
 said, that nothing could be more scandalous than the system of the railway companies as respected carriage.The Earl of Glengall
 objected to a bill of this kind being proceeded with at so late a period of the Session, and moved that it be read a second time this day three months.Lord Portman
 did not feel any very strong objection to this measure, but thought that at this late period of the Session his noble Friend had better withdraw it.The Marques of Salisbury
 said, that this bill asked their Lordships to pass an art of indemnity for all usurious acts committed by those societies up to the present time. To that he did not so much object, but he did object to the power which was asked to charge 15 per cent. upon loans. There was, however, some difficulty in fixing what the rate of interest should be, and on this point he had looked to the rate of interest fixed by loan societies in Ireland. He thought 15 per cent. too high, and he should therefore propose to reduce the rate fixed in the bill from 15 to 10 per cent. He should also propose to amend the bill further, by providing that the meetings of loan societies should not be held in public-houses.The Marquess of Salisbury
 was glad to think that the loan societies in Ireland had succeeded. Much credit was due to Mr. Bagot, of Bagot Castle, for the interest he had taken in the establishment of those bodies in that country, and he was happy to find that the example of Ireland in this particular had been followed in London.The Duke of Wellington
1244"With respect to the clergy reserves, considering that we were expressly and de-
1244Melbournel.1243MelbourneMelbourne begged the noble Viscount's pardon. The clause described the manner in which the property was to be apportioned, /n the first place, "to satisfy all such annual stipends and allowances as have been heretofore assigned and given to the clergy of the churches of England and Scotland, or to any other religious bodies or denominations of Christians in Upper Canada, and to which the faith of the Crown is pledged." [Viscount 1244"With respect to the clergy reserves, considering that we were expressly and de-
1244Melbournel.1243MelbourneMelbourneThe Bishop of Exeter
 said, that what he conjured their Lordships to do was, not to introduce any words or provisions into the bill which would deprive the Raman Catholics of Upper Canada of any portion of what they now derived from the bounty of the Crown, and to which the honour of the Crown was pledged. He felt perfectly convinced that if their Lordships ventured to touch that subject, there was not the slightest hope of tranquillity in Canada. A Catholic question would be created that instant, and the Roman Catholics, forming two-thirds of the population of Upper Canada, would be united, they and their representatives in the Assembly, against the Government of this country. Happily up to this moment there had been no religious, dissensions in Canada. That country had been spared that greatest of all curses, and he did trust that their Lordships would introduce no words into this bill which would in the slightest degree diminish the emoluments which the church of Rome now derived.Lord Ellenborough
, in reply, admitted that a compromise had been made—but between whom? Between the parties who were really parties to the discussion, which the Roman Catholics were not. It was contrary to all good faith to fasten a charge for their support upon funds belonging to the Protestant clergy. If the Government had pledged their faith to find means for the support of the Roman Catholic clergy, let them go to Parliament and ask for the necessary supplies; but let them not steal from the miserable modicum which was left to maintain true religion.The Bishop of Exeter
 said, that he rose for the purpose of moving, which he did with very great regret, that the order of the day for going into committee on the Stock in Trade Bill be read in order to be discharged. There were some words in the last clause of the bill which had occasioned very considerable doubt whether they did not carry the exemption provided for by the bill much further than was originally intended. He would move that this bill be committed that day three months.The Marquess of Normanby
1246 remarked, that it was necessary to make it clearly understood that their Lordships' House having found that a large amount of property would have been exempted from rating by this bill, had taken care to prevent such an error being committed. He wished to mention that a right rev. Prelate, who had, been obliged by illness to leave the
1246Lord Portman
 had some doubt as to the policy of the amendment. He feared that its effect would be to deprive the clergy of the power of acquiring lands in any form, however necessary for building churches or residences for themselves, all which objects were certainly contemplated in the act of 1827, which gave the power of selling these reserves.The Earl of Ripon
1245 regarded the bill as a compromise on the part of the Church, by which compromise, however, she obtained a legal title to something which did not proceed from the clergy reserves. The Crown was obliged by the bill to make
1245The Earl of Ripon
 would support the amendment of his noble Friend. He thought, that his noble Friend had made out distinctly, that the Scotch bar was not prepared at this moment for the alteration proposed in the bill; he would rather therefore postpone it to the next Session, that a general consent might be procured on the part of the bar of Scotland.Lord Wharncliffe
1239 said, there could be no doubt that the measure would be received
1239Lord Seaton
,—It does not bear that construction.Viscount Melbourne
 had the very strongest objection to the amendment proposed by the right rev. Prelate, and exactly on the same grounds as those stated by the noble Baron. The object of the clause was to continue the payment of those stipends to which the faith of the Crown had been pledged, and if the payment had been hitherto made, it ought to be continued.Viscount Melbourne
 suggested that the amendment of the noble Lord would convert the measure into a money bill, and their Lordships could not adopt it without an infringement of the privileges of the other House.Viscount Melbourne
 advocated the propriety of passing this bill during the present Session. It had been before th House nearly all the present Session; and, if any measure could have undergone more investigation than this had, he should be obliged to the noble Earl if he would mention what that measure was. There were no grounds for the imputation, that this bill had been hurried through Parliament.The Lord Chancellor
 and others requested, in the name of the Commons, a conference with their Lordships, on the subject of certain amendments which had been made in the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Bill.Viscount Morpeth
 said, had this bill been introduced earlier in the session, he would have moved, that it be referred to a committee up stairs, in order to show not only the gross negligence, but, to use a harsher phrase, the gross malversation which was observable in the proceedings of (as we understood) the Dunstable trust. He had many objections to this measure. By the former bill the funds necessary for the improvement of the road were voted by Parliament, but by the present measure Sir Henry Parnell, and four commissioners, were authorised to expend any money they pleased without any efficient control. The noble Marquess moved "that the bill be committed this day three months."The Marquess of Salisbury
135513541353 did not agree in all that the petitioners alleged. He regretted that the noble and learned Lord had not given regular notice of his intention before the close of the Session to bring forward the question of our foreign policy, because he felt strongly that if the Session were allowed to terminate without some discussion and some understanding as to the course which her Majesty's Ministers were determined to pursue with respect to Spain, and with respect to the new alliance which the British Government had recently formed, the noble Viscount would incur a responsibility heavier than had ever rested upon any Minister. He remembered (and he lamented it extremely) that in the course of the last year a sort of an itinerant orator went about thecountry—in the north more particularly—and made harangues at public meetings on our foreign policy, and gave out opinions which were calculated to mislead persons not accustomed to look into such questions. He talked about Russia, and Austria and Prussia, and a great deal more which he would venture to say the speaker himself knew very little about: and there was no doubt that these petitions were got up at that time. With respect to our policy in Spain, what he would ask their Lordships, had been the fruits of the quadruple alliance ever since 1834? That alliance, which had been followed by a new quadruple
135513541353The Marquess of Londonderry
1356 said, the petition presented by my noble and learned Friend embraces so wide a scope, and goes over such an unlimited length of time, and matters of such various kinds, and alludes so much to almost every topic of policy of this country, whether foreign, colonial, or domestic, that I can hardly imagine any observations upon any branch of our policy which would not be strictly regular upon the question that the petition be laid on the table. I do not, however, mean to be tempted by the noble Marquess to follow him over any one part of that wide field to which his observations have been applied. I rise simply to guard myself against any misconstruction or misapprehension of what I stated the other evening, and to which the noble Marquess has referred this night, and which I shall do in one single sentence. Upon facts not before us, upon matters which were unknown to me, and upon which I could only speak hypothetically, of course I could give no opinion; but I meant to state, and if I did not then distinctly stale it, I will state it now, that I should most deeply lament (and herein, I think, however we may differ on other matters, even the noble Marquess and I shall be found to be in alliance)—that I should most deeply lament not only anything which tended to shake, still more to interrupt, but anything which even had a tendency to endanger that good understanding between England and France which has happily for so many years prevailed— and by prevailing, preserved the peace of the world; and that I should in proportion to that feeling disapprove, and pointedly disapprove, of any alteration in our policy which could lead so to endanger
1356Lord Brougham
 said, that he understood the amendments of the other House were to be merely verbal, but instead of that being the case, they opened up every question which their Lordships had been discussing for the last three months. Whatever other noble Lords might do, he would not discuss these questions over again, but when the amendments were moved would simply state whether he agreed or disagreed with them.Lord Lyndhurst
1357 said, he had not objected to the course which the noble Lord had adopted, in dealing with these amendments, solely because he wished to bring the question to a determination, and without reference to the course which, under other circumstances, he should have felt himself bound to have followed. He was desirous of taking the present opportunity of stating, without wishing to revive discussion, that he thought the House of Commons had given the strongest proof that it was possible for them to give of their desire to come to some agreement with their Lordships, by abstaining from re-introducing into this bill, and by assenting to the amendment of their Lordships, for withdrawing any provision for the better administration and delivery of the prisons in Dublin. He had reason to know, that nothing but a desire to see the question set at rest could have induced the House of Commons to concur in the withdrawal of that provision. It was partly for a like reason that he now offered no opposition to the proceedings of the noble and learned Lord, and partly because the subject was one which was capable of being re-considered, as indeed it ought to be, in conjunction with the state of prisons, and separately from the objects of the present bill. The subject would be considered in another Session, which he hoped would not terminate without giving to Dublin a more frequent
1357The Marquess of Lansdowne
 perfectly agreed with the noble Marquess who had just spoken, that great sacrifices had been made to carry this bill; but in regard to the other measure adverted to by the noble Marquess, namely, that relating to a general delivery of prisons, he hoped that Government would not stop there, but that they would proceed at an early period next Session, not only with that particular measure, but with that other one to which reference had been made some time ago— he meant the general measure for the purpose of excluding all judicial officers— not from their Lordships' House, for there was no need of that, but from holding a seat in the other House of Parliament.Lord Brougham
1358 was sorry to see that a noble Lord (Lord Ellen-borough), who had on a former night moved an amendment on this subject, was not in his place; that amendment, which their Lordships had adopted, would bear most heavily on the Church. It was to give a power to the Crown to give its consent to any bill which the colonial legislature might pass, enacting that the proceeds arising from the sale of the clergy reserves should form a separate debt, and should bear a uniform rate of interest. He thought that it would be inconvenient not to make this question final; but their Lordships would observe, that such an amendment would give a power to the colonial Legislature and the Crown, to apply all the money received from the sale of clergy reserves to the use of the province —the interest proposed to be allowed to the clergy for the use of the money was five per cent,, to be paid before any other
1358The Archbishop of Canterbury
mandamus.1359"The deanery of Exeter is a private foundation, of which the Crown is not the patron or founder, and cannot furnish any ground on which the court would be warranted in issuing
mandamus.1359"We are of opinion that no court would be justified in originating proceedings, of which the termination desired by the applicant could be obtained only by a jury affirming by their verdict, as a fact, that which the said court is fully persuaded to be false, and no man acquainted with the subject believes to be true."mandamus rose to move a proviso to be added to the 24th clause, to exempt the deanery of Exeter from the general operation of the clause. The ground upon which he made this motion would be gathered from the following facts:—The crown lawyers applied to the Court of Queen's Bench to issue a mandamus.1359"The deanery of Exeter is a private foundation, of which the Crown is not the patron or founder, and cannot furnish any ground on which the court would be warranted in issuing
mandamus.1359"We are of opinion that no court would be justified in originating proceedings, of which the termination desired by the applicant could be obtained only by a jury affirming by their verdict, as a fact, that which the said court is fully persuaded to be false, and no man acquainted with the subject believes to be true."mandamusThe Bishop of Exeter
l1360 said, he had a another proviso to propose, which he trusted would meet with their Lordship's approbation. It related to the residentiary prebends of the old foundation, whose stipends it was proposed to vest in the hands of the commissioners for the improvement of the livings of the parochial clergy. Agreeing with the proposition of
l1360The Bishop of Salisbury
l The bill retained these prebends as honorary distinctions. Nothing more was asked for in all the petitions presented on the subject; and he thought they preserved that character much better by having no allowance, than if 20lThe Bishop of London:
 in reply, observed that this bill was drawn up too much in accordance with the wants of the diocese of London alone, and maintained that his right rev. Friend the Bishop of Exeter was favourable to his proposition.The Bishop of Salisbury,
1361 expressed his entire approval of the general principles
1361The Bishop of Lichfield
 opposed the clause, as the subject had been deliberately considered by the commissioners, and the resolution they came to was embodied in the bill as it now stood.The Archbishop of Canterbury
l supported the clause on the ground that, with the exception of that of divinity, the professorships of Cambridge had no other remuneration beyond 40lThe Bishop of Gloucester
 opposed the clause as being a very inconvenient infraction of the general rule on which the bill was founded.The Marquess of Lansdowne
 then proposed a clause that certain stalls should be appropriated to professorships in the University of Cambridge.Lord Lyttelton
 proposed a clause, providing that the four canonries of Ely should be attached to the fifteen professorships of Cambridge, and that selection should be with the bishops. He also proposed that the master of Jesus should be included amongst the persons eligible to these canonries.Lord Lyttelton
 said, in explanation that he either must have stated the substance of the petition, or must have read it, to enable their Lordships to understand the grounds of its prayer; and from the complicated nature of the things to which it referred, and from the expressions it used, he thought it much safer to read the petition at length. He did not know to whom the noble Viscount alluded when speaking of the probable author of the petition, but he presumed that the noble Viscount did not mean to suggest that he had had anything to do with it.Lord Lyndhurst
1346 had to present to their Lordships two petitions, the one from the merchants of the city of London, the other from the merchants of the borough of Birmingham, on the subject of the present state of the republic of Cracow, with reference to its commercial relations. He had been in possession of those petitions for a considerable period, and he rejoiced that he had not presented them sooner, because, from circumstances which had recently occurred, he had some reason to hope, that events were in progress that would beneficially alter the situation of the inhabitants of Cracow. He alluded to the sentiments expressed by the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs (who must be taken as the representative of the Government) with respect to the conduct that had been observed towards the republic of Cracow. That noble Lord was stated to have described the proceedings adopted with reference to the republic of Cracow as a gross violation of the treaty of Vienna, and so far an injury, and consequently an affront, to the people of this country. The noble Lord further admitted that the pretence on which those proceedings were founded was false in fact, and afforded no justification for them. It was also, he understood, stated by the noble Lord, and he rejoiced in it, that Her Majesty's Ministers took a deep interest in the prosperity and welfare of this republic; and further, that pressing remonstrances had been made, and were
1346Lord Lyndhurst
"While, therefore, the present Ministers of her Majesty have come into power on the confidence they have falsely created in the industrial population of this land by professions of reform, by pledges of peace, by hopes of retrenchment, they have introduced new abuses, increased expenditure, involved this land in unjust and injurious wars with small states, and rendered next to inevitable collision with the great powers of Europe and America. That they are, therefore, unworthy of confidence, and that their removal and punishment is necessary to save this country from ruin,""That the prospect held out by the past presents increase of taxation, loss of commerce, further expenditure of our blood and treasure, and ultimately war with the states whose hostility has been created, and the dismemberment of the colonies whose affections have been lost."That the sacrifice of commercial rights, and the further diminution of our commerce, must fall on the working classes, throwing them out of work, and depriving them of food."That this dilapidation of the public affairs has imposed the necessity of increased taxation, the weight of which must fall upon the operatives, and fall the more severely, because of their intention to make this new taxation rest upon the necessaries of life.1350"That they have suffered the decay of the strength of Britain in her navy — that the shores of England are unprotected—that the vessels they possess are sent to distant stations where they are useful only to advance the designs of foreign powers, and that they suffered armaments in peace only calculated for war,
1350l"That, while prostituting the power of England in every region of the globe for the advancement of the hostile designs of powers whom their treason has rallied against England, they have sacrificed British property or British money, and British commerce, to an extent of 50,000,000l"That by a secret conclave established in London they have overthrown the internal liberties, and the external independence of all the minor states of Europe, Asia, and America, and have done so in conjunction with two powers, our enemies—Russia and France."That they have betrayed to Russia a nation who had placed its independence in the hands of Great Britain—Greece; sacrificing many millions sterling to effect that purpose, and abrogating the rights of the British bondholders in order to transfer the same to Russia."That they have paid to Russia the Russio-Dutch loan, in opposition to the spirit of the original compact, and after existing treaties between Russia and England had been abrogated by her act."That, prolonging' the disasters of Spain, they have expended British blood and treasure in an assault on the rights of British commerce, guaranteed in the institutions of that country, which they have assailed."That, under the pretext of settling the affairs of the Peninsula, they have deluged it with blood, and filled it with convulsion."That they have suffered the violation of British rights, and the interruption of British commerce throughout Poland, throughout Germany, along the shores of the Gulf of Mexico, around the whole coast of South America, along the northern and the eastern coasts of Africa, through the kingdom of Persia, and by a voluntary act have interfered to upset the lights of British commerce in Turkey."That they found the differences with the United States, in respect to the North American boundary, adjusted by treaty, that they have broken up that adjustment, and that they have sown the seeds of war between the United States and Great Britain."That they found India tranquil within, at peace with its neighbours, and defended by a powerful army. That they have fomented revolts and conspiracies, at once by acts of injustice, and by the disbanding of troops, while they have engaged in war in Central and in Eastern Asia, and rendered the whole population of that quarter of the globe, our enemies.1349"That they found relations of amity and
1349"That they have invaded Afghanistan without a declaration of war, and for the purpose of forcing on that people a monarch whom they had thrice expelled, in violation of all laws, human and divine, as in scorn of every British feeling and interest. That they have thus laid prostrate, by treachery and violence, every barrier which withstood the advance of Russia upon India.protegé"That by secret and treasonable collusion with Russia to set up her protegé"That by their concurrence with Russia they have overthrown the strength of Circassia, suffering on its coasts the seizure of a British vessel while engaged in lawful traffic."That they have suffered, encouraged, and co-operated in the progressive encroachments of Russia, while setting treaties at nought— assaulting our allies—fomenting insurrections and organizing conspiracies throughout the territories that own allegiance to your Majesty's crown."That they found Poland an independent slate, and they have reduced it, suffering the violation of a treaty guaranteed by Great Britain, to the condition of a province of Russia."That they found this country allied to France—that they have submitted to the encroachments of that power upon the territories of our allies, and to the violation by her of our commercial rights, and, consequently, they have placed present hostility, and laid the grounds of war, between this country and France."That Her Majesty's present Ministers found the colonies of North America in a state of tranquillity, that they have brought them into one of insurrection."That the prospects of increased expenditure, of additional demands for troops and for ships, are presented in the colonies, at home, and throughout the world, by the universal mismanagement of our affairs, by the violation of the rights of our fellow-subjects, by the submission to insult and to outrage from foreign Powers, by the contempt into which Her Majesty's crown has been brought, and by the injustice inspired into the councils of every foreign stale, through the hopes awakened of the dismemberment of the British empire-"That a degrading system of corruption has been introduced on the pretence of commissions to inquire into grievances, through which extensive corruptions of men of ability have taken place, money is expended, and the people have been beguiled by delusive hopes.1348"That the present Ministry have done nothing to reduce that debt, or to correct the false and oppressive mode of taxation, but, on the contrary, commenced their career by an assault upon the last remnants of the constitutional taxation of this empire. That whereas even the previous Administrations had, during peace, diminished the burden of the public debt. That whereas the Administration which immediately preceded them had reduced the taxation of this country to the
1348"That at the period when these Ministers obtained the management of public affairs this country was oppressed with an enormous debt, the result of the previous mismanagement of our foreign affairs, was oppressed still more grievously by the injurious mode in which the revenue was assessed, resulting from the miscomprehension of their predecessors of our domestic concerns."That these Ministers are the first Ministers of the British Crown who have come into office through popular agitation. That, using with cruelty the power which they had obtained by perfidy, they have directed the worst rigours of the law against the very men by whom they have been raised, while in pursuit of objects identical with those which they had encouraged."That, in regard to the reform of abuses that did exist, they have done nothing of that which they promised, and that they have created abuses unknown before. That in regard to the public expenditure, insupportable before, and which they had pledged themselves to retrench, they have done nothing, but, on the contrary, augmented that expenditure. That in regard to peace,— they found peace— they have brought war."That Her Majesty's present Ministers came into office through the support they obtained from the operatives of this country, in the expectation they had held out and the pledge they had given, of effecting the reform of existing abuses, of retrenching lavish and insupportable expenditure, and of preserving the blessings of peace to the empire.1347 had another petition to present, signed by 40,000 operatives of the city of Glasgow; and, from the statements made
"While, therefore, the present Ministers of her Majesty have come into power on the confidence they have falsely created in the industrial population of this land by professions of reform, by pledges of peace, by hopes of retrenchment, they have introduced new abuses, increased expenditure, involved this land in unjust and injurious wars with small states, and rendered next to inevitable collision with the great powers of Europe and America. That they are, therefore, unworthy of confidence, and that their removal and punishment is necessary to save this country from ruin,""That the prospect held out by the past presents increase of taxation, loss of commerce, further expenditure of our blood and treasure, and ultimately war with the states whose hostility has been created, and the dismemberment of the colonies whose affections have been lost."That the sacrifice of commercial rights, and the further diminution of our commerce, must fall on the working classes, throwing them out of work, and depriving them of food."That this dilapidation of the public affairs has imposed the necessity of increased taxation, the weight of which must fall upon the operatives, and fall the more severely, because of their intention to make this new taxation rest upon the necessaries of life.1350"That they have suffered the decay of the strength of Britain in her navy — that the shores of England are unprotected—that the vessels they possess are sent to distant stations where they are useful only to advance the designs of foreign powers, and that they suffered armaments in peace only calculated for war,
1350l"That, while prostituting the power of England in every region of the globe for the advancement of the hostile designs of powers whom their treason has rallied against England, they have sacrificed British property or British money, and British commerce, to an extent of 50,000,000l"That by a secret conclave established in London they have overthrown the internal liberties, and the external independence of all the minor states of Europe, Asia, and America, and have done so in conjunction with two powers, our enemies—Russia and France."That they have betrayed to Russia a nation who had placed its independence in the hands of Great Britain—Greece; sacrificing many millions sterling to effect that purpose, and abrogating the rights of the British bondholders in order to transfer the same to Russia."That they have paid to Russia the Russio-Dutch loan, in opposition to the spirit of the original compact, and after existing treaties between Russia and England had been abrogated by her act."That, prolonging' the disasters of Spain, they have expended British blood and treasure in an assault on the rights of British commerce, guaranteed in the institutions of that country, which they have assailed."That, under the pretext of settling the affairs of the Peninsula, they have deluged it with blood, and filled it with convulsion."That they have suffered the violation of British rights, and the interruption of British commerce throughout Poland, throughout Germany, along the shores of the Gulf of Mexico, around the whole coast of South America, along the northern and the eastern coasts of Africa, through the kingdom of Persia, and by a voluntary act have interfered to upset the lights of British commerce in Turkey."That they found the differences with the United States, in respect to the North American boundary, adjusted by treaty, that they have broken up that adjustment, and that they have sown the seeds of war between the United States and Great Britain."That they found India tranquil within, at peace with its neighbours, and defended by a powerful army. That they have fomented revolts and conspiracies, at once by acts of injustice, and by the disbanding of troops, while they have engaged in war in Central and in Eastern Asia, and rendered the whole population of that quarter of the globe, our enemies.1349"That they found relations of amity and
1349"That they have invaded Afghanistan without a declaration of war, and for the purpose of forcing on that people a monarch whom they had thrice expelled, in violation of all laws, human and divine, as in scorn of every British feeling and interest. That they have thus laid prostrate, by treachery and violence, every barrier which withstood the advance of Russia upon India.protegé"That by secret and treasonable collusion with Russia to set up her protegé"That by their concurrence with Russia they have overthrown the strength of Circassia, suffering on its coasts the seizure of a British vessel while engaged in lawful traffic."That they have suffered, encouraged, and co-operated in the progressive encroachments of Russia, while setting treaties at nought— assaulting our allies—fomenting insurrections and organizing conspiracies throughout the territories that own allegiance to your Majesty's crown."That they found Poland an independent slate, and they have reduced it, suffering the violation of a treaty guaranteed by Great Britain, to the condition of a province of Russia."That they found this country allied to France—that they have submitted to the encroachments of that power upon the territories of our allies, and to the violation by her of our commercial rights, and, consequently, they have placed present hostility, and laid the grounds of war, between this country and France."That Her Majesty's present Ministers found the colonies of North America in a state of tranquillity, that they have brought them into one of insurrection."That the prospects of increased expenditure, of additional demands for troops and for ships, are presented in the colonies, at home, and throughout the world, by the universal mismanagement of our affairs, by the violation of the rights of our fellow-subjects, by the submission to insult and to outrage from foreign Powers, by the contempt into which Her Majesty's crown has been brought, and by the injustice inspired into the councils of every foreign stale, through the hopes awakened of the dismemberment of the British empire-"That a degrading system of corruption has been introduced on the pretence of commissions to inquire into grievances, through which extensive corruptions of men of ability have taken place, money is expended, and the people have been beguiled by delusive hopes.1348"That the present Ministry have done nothing to reduce that debt, or to correct the false and oppressive mode of taxation, but, on the contrary, commenced their career by an assault upon the last remnants of the constitutional taxation of this empire. That whereas even the previous Administrations had, during peace, diminished the burden of the public debt. That whereas the Administration which immediately preceded them had reduced the taxation of this country to the
1348"That at the period when these Ministers obtained the management of public affairs this country was oppressed with an enormous debt, the result of the previous mismanagement of our foreign affairs, was oppressed still more grievously by the injurious mode in which the revenue was assessed, resulting from the miscomprehension of their predecessors of our domestic concerns."That these Ministers are the first Ministers of the British Crown who have come into office through popular agitation. That, using with cruelty the power which they had obtained by perfidy, they have directed the worst rigours of the law against the very men by whom they have been raised, while in pursuit of objects identical with those which they had encouraged."That, in regard to the reform of abuses that did exist, they have done nothing of that which they promised, and that they have created abuses unknown before. That in regard to the public expenditure, insupportable before, and which they had pledged themselves to retrench, they have done nothing, but, on the contrary, augmented that expenditure. That in regard to peace,— they found peace— they have brought war."That Her Majesty's present Ministers came into office through the support they obtained from the operatives of this country, in the expectation they had held out and the pledge they had given, of effecting the reform of existing abuses, of retrenching lavish and insupportable expenditure, and of preserving the blessings of peace to the empire.1347Lord Lyndhurst
13521351 said, that with respect to the observations which the noble and learned Lord had made on the subject of Cracow, they required no remark on his part, nor was it necessary, that the noble and learned Lord should have given him any notice of his intention to present that petition. The noble and learned Lord had stated with
13521351Viscount Melbourne
 said, that notwithstanding the peculiar circumstances which had no doubt been accurately detailed by the right rev. Prelate, he apprehended that as the appointment of the deanery of Exeter had been for more than two hundred years in the recommendation of the Crown, and as fourteen successive appointments had been thus made, their Lordships would not see fit to alter the clause. Unquestionably the matter had been brought before the Queen's Bench, and that court had decided they could not give relief in the form in which it was brought before them, but at the same time the court had intimated a strong opinion on the main question of right. Upon the grounds, then, of ancient usage—upon the ground that the deanery in question bad been for such a length of time in the recommendation, and, in fact, in the gift of the Crown—upon the ground of public policy that these high dignities should be in the gift of the Crown—he thought that Parliament ought to continue in the Crown that which had been attached to it so long. Upon these general grounds, not disguising that the question was one of no small difficulty, he considered their Lordships would do well to keep the clause in its present form.Viscount Melbourne
ll presented a petition from M. Bertin, formerly a printer and publisher in the Mauritius, praying for compensation for certain losses which he had sustained in consequence of the conduct of the government. At the time when M. Bertin was in the Mauritius, party spirit ran extremely high there, and had, in fact, broken out into acts of violence; and it was admitted, as set forth in the petition, that during that period, M. Bertin had acted as a loyal subject, that his conduct was exceedingly good, and that he gave the most zealous support to the government. At one of those periods of disturbance, when party spirit ran unusually high, the printing-office where the petitioner's business was conducted was assailed by the populace, owing to the part which he had taken in favour of the government. His life was exposed to great jeopardy, and he was obliged to put himself under the protection of the military. His partner, however, compromised with the anti-government party, and thus escaped unmolested; but he preferred running any personal risk rather than compromise his opinions. He was afterwards tried before the Supreme Court of the island for a libel published in his paper, and sentenced to pay a fine of 50llLord Brougham
1381 contended, that it could have been no secret to Sir W. Nicolay that M. Bertin was engaged in the con-
1381Lord Brougham
ll said, that having- read the correspondence which had recently been laid on the fable respecting the claims of the British Legion, he was bound incandour to tell the noble Viscount opposite, that nothing could be more completely satisfactory than this correspondence. Their Lordships would find by a letter from our Ambassador, that a sum of 50,000llThe Marquess of Londonderry
1382 wished to ask one or two questions of the noble Marquess at the head of the Home-office, relative to the instructions which had been issued to the Poor-law Commissioners to inquire into the slate of disease in Scotland. When he last made any observations on the subject to their Lordships, he stated his regret that these inquiries were not to be made by some other body, because he certainly felt that the employment of these gentlemen would create a feeling in Scotland that there was some idea of tampering with the Poor-laws in that country, and assimilating them to the Poor-laws of England. He had not been altogether mistaken on that point, because, as the noble Lord well knew, considerable opposition had been given by an institution in Edinburgh to the prosecution of these inquiries by the Poor-law Commissioners, and last Tuesday, in the Edinburgh town council, a petition to her Majesty, praying
1382The Earl of Haddington
 had stated, when his noble Friend had last called the attention of the House to the subject, that the inquiries of the commissioners would be confined to the specific object of ascertaining the state and progress of disease. He was well aware that any inquiry of this kind, to be successful, must be so conducted as to conciliate the good will of those amongst whom it was carried on. The inquiries of the commissioners would be confined to the large towns, although, in his opinion, the inquiry would not be ultimately complete until it was extended in some shape or other to the rural districts.The Marquess of Normanby
1384 was anxious to say a few words on another matter which materially related to the peace of Ireland. He adverted to that agitation which, if the newspapers were to be believed, was now going on for the repeal of the union. It appeared that not long ago in the west of Ireland a very great meeting had been held, where the real character of repeal had shown itself. There the word "separation" was used, though he never had had a doubt on his own mind that if "repeal" meant anything it meant "separation," and nothing but that. This matter appeared still more serious when they considered who the leaders of that repeal agitation were; that they were persons—whether in the confidence of the Government or not he did not know—but they were persons many of whom were the most active friends and supporters of the Government, and yet they never heard any disapprobation expressed by the functionaries or the high authorities in Ireland of that agitation. It was the political character and connection with the Government of the patrons of agitation in Ireland that was one of the most dangerous incidents connected with the question of repeal. He must say, he thought the Government were highly culpable for not having expressed that disapprobation, which every man gave them credit for feeling deeply, at such mischievous and alarming agitation. That agitation too was taking place in a country where Ribandism was universally spread, and where that society might be turned by its leaders into
1384The Earl of Haddington
 had stated a fortnight ago, that it would be extremely inconvenient during the progress of these trials that any discussion on this subject should take place. He now only wished to say, that on the part of the Government there was every desire to give all information on the subject. Discoveries had been made of a very important nature, and the extent of the conspiracy was perfectly well known; and the Government had a right to take credit to themselves for the manner in which they had conducted the prosecutions that had arisen out of those discoveries. With regard to Mr. Rowan, he perfectly concurred in what had been stated by his noble Friend (Lord Portman). He did not think it necessary to say more on this subject at present, but if his noble Friend wished for more information in the next session of Parliament, there was every disposition on the part of the Government to furnish it.The Marquess of Normanby
 by moved the second reading of the Administration of Justice (Birmingham) Bill. It would have been introduced at an earlier period of the Session, but the Government had been waiting for the decision of the judges on the legality of the charter. Not having been able to obtain that decision, they had brought in this bill to make temporary provision for the administration of justice in Birmingham, and leaving the question of the legality of the charter wholly untouched.The Marquess of Norman,
 said, the question was, had there been any legal quarter sessions whatever? He believed, that every man tried had been illegally tried.Lorn Wharncliffe
 said, it would be difficult to imagine any circumstances less favourable than those under which it was proposed to admit Birmingham to the functions of a corporation, and this was especially the case as regarded that part of those functions which related to the administration of justice. He always thought that so important a town as Birmingham ought to possess a corporation, but he was unfavourable to the present bill, because it would not effect that object; it would give to Birmingham not the reality but the fiction of a corporation, and he apprehended that the course which Ministers were taking would lead to the necessity of passing bills of indemnity. Now, although he should not much object to a bill of indemnity where the parties acted in ignorance, he should by no means concur in any step which would invite the commission of acts requiring such remedies.Lord Calthorpe
 proposed the addition of a clause to the bill, to the effect that John Thorogood should not be released until the rate and costs were paid either by himself, or some other person or persons.The Earl of Devon
 said, that the insertion of such a clause would frustrate the purpose of the bill. Besides no act of Parliament was necessary to make it imperative on persons in the situation of John Thorogood to pay the debt and costs of the suit, before they were released from prison.The Lord Chancellor
d.s.d.s.1387 thought the case was a very simple one, and that there could be no doubt as to the course which should be taken. Here was a man who had been sued for a sum of money, which it was understood, was lawfully due by
d.s.d.s.1387The Duke of Wellington
1388 entirely concurred in the observations of the noble Duke. If the question was, as to the release of an insolvent after long imprisonment, he might
1388Lord Eldon
d.s. inquired who would pay the costs if the defendant did not? If he were released from prison without paying them, no one who refused to pay church rates hereafter would be proceeded against, because the churchwardens would naturally say, "It would be foolish for us to go to so much expense for 5d.s.Lord Wharncliffe
d.s.1389 had given no opinion upon the question as to whether it would be unjust to make the plaintiffs or the defendant pay the costs. He might however, freely declare, that it would be quite unjust to make the plaintiffs pay them. But the fact was, that an experiment had been tried with this man for upwards of twelvemonths, without producing the effect desired—namely, the payment of either rate or costs. The defendant had preferred paying in person, and still seemed disposed to do so. The noble Lord proceeded upon the supposition that somebody else would pay these expenses. But suppose nobody did so, would the plaintiffs be in a better condition? By still keeping the defendant in gaol they would be giving him the character of a martyr, and enlisting popular sympathy in his favour and against themselves. All that might be avoided by agreeing to the bill as it stood. If the question were which ought to pay, the defendant or the plaintiff, he should not consent to let the defendant out unless he paid. The noble Lord on his left (Lord Wharncliffe) had suggested what might be the effect of the bill in other cases. In answer to that he would observe, that the cases were very rare in which men would rather go to prison for
d.s.1389The Lord Chancellor
 took occasion, on presenting a petition, to read a letter in reference to the late debate on the letter addressed by Mr. Macdonald to Mr. Langford, in which the writer stated that a memorial had been presented to the Lord-lieutenant, signed by those magistrates who had been named by Mr. Jackson in his letter to Colonel Macgregor, in which they denied, in the strongest and most, indignant manner, the statement of the police officers.The Earl of Charleville
 said, that having been a member of the committee, he could say that the facts stated by Mr. Rowan could scarcely be disputed; but the doubt thrown on his evidence had arisen from the inferences which he drew from those facts.Lord Portman
l.llll1380 said, the facts, as set forth by the petitioner, were somewhat exaggerated. In 1831 the petitioner came to the island. In 1832 he set up a printing establishment, and commenced a newspaper, although he was told that he could not be recognized by the government as the registered proprietor. In the month of August, 1833, in consequence of the violent course which had been taken by certain individuals, the governor thought it necessary by proclamation to apprise aliens that they were prohibited
l.llll1380The Earl of Clarendon
1385 thought they had got into difficulties which this bill would only tend to perpetuate. From the length of time the judges had taken for their decision, there must be great doubt upon the question of the legality of the charter, but his belief was, their decision would be against it. When the Government discovered the doubt, they ought to have stopped their proceedings, and left the administration of justice in the same hands it was in before. The quarter sessions of Birmingham were now held and paid for by funds paid out of the Treasury. The prisoners were sent over first from Birmingham to Warwick gaol, then back to Birmingham to be tried, and afterwards
1385The Earl of Warwick
1383 begged to be allowed to remark, that it appeared to him, upon reading the late Riband trials that the evidence of Mr. Rowan, given before a committee of their Lordships last year, as to the character of these associations, was perfectly well founded. The facts of their
1383Lord Wharncliffe
1399l rose to call their Lordships' attention for a few minutes to a subject which he had some time ago brought before their Lordships. The subject to which he alluded was the connexion of the Government of India with idolatrous processions and practices in that country. When he formerly brought this matter forward, and inquired what steps had been taken, or were about to be taken, for carrying into effect the instructions sent out by the Court of Directors in 1833, he had received an assurance from the noble Viscount that every disposition existed on the part of her Majesty's Government to render those instructions effectual; and he now learned with great satisfaction, that the pilgrim-tax had been abolished at Gyah, Allahabad, and Juggernaut. It appeared, however, that with respect to the last named temple, the sum of 50,000 rupees, or 5,0001399lThe Bishop of London
1401 admitted that there were circumstances of difference between the two presidencies, but did not
1401The Bishop of London
 presented a petition from the inhabitants of London, complaining of an alteration which had taken place of late years, by which prisoners charged with felony were allowed to employ counsel for their defence. That was a principle of exceedingly questionable propriety, and from what had occurred on a late most melancholy and remarkable occasion, he hoped the Government would see the propriety of referring the question to the Commisioners of Criminal Law Inquiry, in order to ascertain whether some change should not be made in the present practice. He disclaimed everything like imputation on any member of the learned profession, to whom the country was in many respects greatly indebted. The question really concerned the character of the community at large. He did not venture to give a positive opinion upon it, but this he would say, there were passages of God's word which he could not reconcile with the propriety of any man taking a reward to prove that to be otherwise which the accused himself had distinctly confessed.The Bishop of London
exparte1402 was at some loss to understand the grounds upon which the petitioners rested their prayer. The privilege of the exercise of which they complained was not that of the counsel, but of the prisoner; it was a privilege upon which the elucidation of truth, the prevention of injustice depended, and the life, liberties, and property of the subject were not worth an hour's purchase if the freest scope, he would say more, the most unrestrained license was not given to the bar. Whether in a case which was right or wrong this was the rule, the sacred rule of the profession, and it was one upon which the safety of the administration of justice depended. With regard to the judgment of counsel, as to the propriety or impropriety of taking any case in hand, how, he would ask, could any man know a case to be a bad one before it was tried? Was he to enter into an investigation of
exparte1402Lord Brougham
 said, the noble and learned Lord had admirably demolished the phantom of his own creation, for he had said nothing which called for the observations made by the noble Lord. It was not competent for a counsel to refuse a brief, but he lamented the hardship of the law, which, since the recent alteration which had been made in its provisions, might compel a man to do that which was against his own conscience, namely, defend by a speech a man whom he knew to be guilty.The Bishop of London
1400 had no objection to the production of the papers in ques-
1400Viscount Melbourne
